Notices plc Investec plc Incorporated in England and Wales Registration number 3633621 Share code: INVP ISIN: GB00B17BBQ50 This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to obtain your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Investec plc, please send this document together with the accompanying Form of Proxy at once to the relevant transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the relevant transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec plc Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc will be held at 11:00 UK time on Thursday, 13 August 2009, at the registered of ce of Investec plc at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP, to transact the following business: Common business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc and Investec Limited: 1.
To re-elect Samuel Ellis Abrahams as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Hugh Sidney Herman as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Ian Robert Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Stephen Koseff as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Sir David Prosser as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
For brief biographical details of the directors to be re-elected, please refer to pages 219 to 222 of the Annual Report of Investec plc Investec Limited.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all non-executive directors who have served on the board for nine years or more are required to seek re-election on an annual basis.
This requirement is entrenched in the Articles of Association of both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Directors authority to take action in respect of the resolutions Resolved that: - any director or the company secretaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited, be and they are hereby authorised to do all things and sign all documents which may be necessary to carry into effect the resolutions contained in this notice to the extent the same have been passed and, where applicable, registered.
Ordinary business: Investec Limited To consider and if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec Limited: 8.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2009, together with the reports of the directors of Investec Limited and of the auditors of Investec Limited.
To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the directors of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2008.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the dividend access South African resident redeemable preference share SA DAS share for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2008.
Subject to the passing of resolution no.
32, to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares and the dividend access South African resident redeemable preference share SA DAS share in Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2009 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec Limited.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young Inc. of Ernst & Young House, Wanderers Of ce Park, 52 Corlett Drive, Illovo, 2196 South Africa Private Bag X14, Northlands, 2116 South Africa as joint auditors of Investec Limited to hold of ce until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010 and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to x their remuneration.
To re-appoint KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, 2193 South Africa Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 South Africa as joint auditors of Investec Limited to hold of ce until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010 and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to x their remuneration.
Annual report 2009 321 Notices Special business: Investec Limited To consider and if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary and special resolutions of Investec Limited: 15.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 5% of the unissued ordinary shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited: a unless and until such date that special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 1 564 516 one million five hundred and sixty four thousand five hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of R0.0002 each being 5% five per cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited or b from the date on which special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 9 064 516 nine million sixty four thousand five hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of R0.0002 each being 5% five per cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010, subject to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 5% of the unissued class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited, a total of 2 000 000 two million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares class A preference shares of R0.0002 each, being 5% five per cent of the unissued class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing the remaining unissued shares, being the variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, the non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares and the special convertible redeemable preference shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited, all the unissued shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, excluding the ordinary shares and the class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares, be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
These preference shares, if issued, are non-dilutive to ordinary shareholders.
Ordinary resolution with a 75% majority: Investec Limited: Directors authority to allot and issue ordinary shares for cash, in respect of 5% of the unissued ordinary shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
15, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listing Requirements, the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended and the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to allot and issue: a unless and until such date that special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 1 564 516 one million five hundred and sixty four thousand five hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of R0.0002 each or b from the date on which special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 9 064 516 nine million sixty four thousand five hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of R0.0002 each for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following speci c limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009 whichever period is shorter 322 Annual report 2009 Notices ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the ordinary shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited and v the ordinary shares must be issued to public shareholders, as fide ned in the JSE Listing Requirements, and not to related parties.
The directors are seeking an authority to allot up to 5% five per cent of the number of unissued ordinary shares for cash which represents 0.582% zero point five eight two per cent until special resolution no.
2 becomes effective and 3.373% three point three seven three per cent thereafter of the number of issued ordinary shares which is signi cantly lower than the 15% fifteen per cent permitted in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements.
10 are both passed and, subject to the limits speci ed in those respective resolutions, the directors will have authority to allot up to 5% five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and up to 5% five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of Investec Limited for cash other than by way of rights issue.
This complies with the limits set out in the relevant Association of British Insurers guidelines.
In terms of the JSE Listings Requirements, in order for resolution no.
18 to be given effect to, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
Ordinary resolution with a 75% majority: Investec Limited: Directors authority to allot and issue class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
16, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listing Requirements, the South African Banks Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to allot and issue 2 000 000 two million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares class A preference shares of R0.0002 each being 5% five per cent of the unissued class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following speci c limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009 whichever period is shorter ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per class A preference share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of class A preference shares in issue prior to such issue iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of class A preference shares in issue iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of class A preference shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the class A preference shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited and v the class A preference shares must be issued to public shareholders, as fide ned in the JSE Listing Requirements, and not to related parties.
19 is passed, the directors will have authority to allot up to 2 000 000 two million class A preference shares for cash other than by way of rights issue in respect of Investec Limited, being equivalent to 5% five per cent of the unissued class A preference shares.
In terms of the JSE Listing Requirements, in order for resolution no.
19 to be given effect to, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
1: Investec Limited: Directors authority to acquire ordinary shares and perpetual preference shares Resolved that: - in terms of Article 9 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 13 August 2009, Investec Limited hereby approves, as a general approval contemplated in Sections 85 to 89 both inclusive of the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended the SA Act, the acquisition by Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries from time to time of the issued ordinary shares and non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares the perpetual preference shares of Investec Limited, upon such terms and conditions and in such amounts as the directors of Investec Limited or its subsidiaries may from time to time decide, but subject to the provisions of the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, the SA Act and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited the JSE and the JSE Listing Requirements, being, inter alia, that: i any such acquisition of ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares shall be effected through the order book operated by the JSE trading system and done without any prior understanding or arrangement ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec Limiteds next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010, or for 15 fifteen months from the date of the passing of this special resolution no.
1, whichever is the shorter period iii an announcement containing full details of such acquisitions will be published as soon as Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares constituting, on a cumulative basis, 3% three per cent of the number of ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares in issue, as the case may be, prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the aforesaid 3% three per cent threshold is reached and for each 3% three per cent in aggregate acquired thereafter iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any 1 one financial year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent of Investec Limiteds issued ordinary share capital or Investec Limiteds issued perpetual preference share capital as at the date of passing of this special resolution no.
1 v in determining the price at which ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares issued by Investec Limited are acquired by it or any of its subsidiaries in terms of this general authority, the maximum premium at which such ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares, as the case may be, may be acquired will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average of the market value at which such ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares, as the case may be, are traded on the JSE as determined over the 5 five business days immediately preceding the date of acquisition of such ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares, as the case may be, by Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries vi at any point in time, Investec Limited may only appoint 1 one agent to effect any acquisition on Investec Limiteds behalf vii Investec Limited remaining in compliance with the minimum shareholder spread requirements of the JSE Listings Requirements and viii Investec Limited and or its subsidiaries not acquiring any shares during a prohibited period as fide ned by the JSE Listings Requirements.
The reason for and effect of special resolution no.
1 is to grant a renewable general authority to Investec Limited, or a subsidiary of Investec Limited, to acquire ordinary shares and perpetual preference shares of Investec Limited which are in issue from time to time in terms of the SA Act and the JSE Listings Requirements.
The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of making any acquisition but believe that Investec Limited should retain the exibility to take action if future acquisitions are considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
The directors of Investec Limited are of the opinion that, after considering the effect of such acquisition of ordinary shares and perpetual preference shares, if implemented and on the assumption that the maximum of 20% twenty per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital or perpetual preference share capital of Investec Limited will be acquired, using the mechanism of the general authority at the maximum price at which the acquisition may take place a 10% ten per cent premium above the weighted average of the market value for the securities for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the date of the acquisition and having regard to the price of the ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares of Investec Limited on the JSE at the last practical date prior to the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009 that: - Investec Limited and its subsidiaries will be able, in the ordinary course of business, to pay its debt for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009 - the consolidated assets of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries, fairly valued in accordance with General Accepted Accounting Practice, will be in excess of the consolidated liabilities of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009 - Investec Limited and its subsidiaries will have adequate capital and reserves for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009 and - the working capital of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries will be adequate for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009.
Litigation statement In terms of section 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the directors, whose names appear on pages 219 to 222 of the 2009 Annual Report, are not aware of any legal or arbitration proceedings that are pending or threatened, that may have or have had in the recent past, being at least the previous 12 twelve months, a material effect on Investec Limited and its subsidiaries financial position, other than disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
324 Annual report 2009 Notices Directors responsibility statement The directors, whose names appear on pages 219 to 222 of the 2009 Annual Report, collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to this special resolution and certify that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there are no facts that have been omitted which would make any statement false or misleading and that all reasonable enquiries to ascertain such facts have been made and that the special resolution contains all information.
Material changes Other than the facts and developments reported on in the 2009 Annual Report, there have been no material changes in the affairs or financial position of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries since the date of signature of the audit report and up to the date of this notice.
The following additional information, some of which may appear elsewhere in the 2009 Annual Report, is provided in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements for purposes of the general authority: - Directors and management Annual Report pages 219 to 225: - Major bene cial shareholders Annual Report page 216: - Directors interests in ordinary shares Annual Report page 201: - Share capital of Investec Limited Annual Report pages 299 to 301 21.
2: Investec Limited: Increase in share capital: Number of ordinary shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
39 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009 in terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended the SA Act, Article 7 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and, with effect from 13 August 2009, the number of ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and is hereby increased to 450 000 000 four hundred and fty million by the creation of 150 000 000 one hundred and fty million new ordinary shares of R0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
2 is to increase the number of ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
Prior to the passing of this special resolution no.
2, Investec Limited has issued approximately 90% ninety per cent of its authorised ordinary share capital.
3: Investec Limited: Increase in share capital: Number of special convertible redeemable preference shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
38 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009 in terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended the SA Act, Article 7 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and, with effect from 13 August 2009, the number of special convertible redeemable preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and is hereby increased to 700 000 000 seven hundred million by the creation of 140 000 000 one hundred and forty million special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
3 is to increase the number of authorised special convertible redeemable preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited in order to align them with the authorised ordinary share capital of Investec plc thereby complying with the Dual Listed Companies agreements in place between Investec plc and Investec Limited.
4: Investec Limited: Amendment to Memorandum of Association Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of the above special resolutions nos.
2 and 3 and the passing of resolutions nos.
38 and 39 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, in terms of Section 56 4 of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act, Article 149 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 13 August 2009, the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the entire paragraph 8 a and the substitution thereof with the following new paragraph 8 a : 8 a Par value: The share capital of Investec Limited is R1 268 002.00 one million two hundred and sixty eight thousand and two rand divided into: i 450 000 000 four hundred and fty million ordinary shares of R0.0002 each ii 40 000 000 forty million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares of R0.0002 each iii 50 000 fty thousand variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares of R0.60 each iv 100 000 000 one hundred million non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of R0.01 each v 1 one dividend access South Africa Resident redeemable preference share of R1.00 vi 1 one dividend access non-South African Resident redeemable preference share of R1.00 vii 700 000 000 seven hundred million special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each.
4 is to amend the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited to correctly re ect the new authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
5: Investec Limited: Amendment to Articles of Association: Annual and General Meetings Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009 the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 47 and the insertion of the following new Article 47: 47 Annual and General Meetings An Annual General Meeting shall be held once in every year, at such time within a period of not more than six months from the day following the companys financial year end and not more than fifteen months after the holding of the last preceding Annual General Meeting, at a place as may be determined by the directors.
All other meetings shall be called General Meetings.
5 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Companies agreements.
6: Investec Limited: Amendment to Articles of Association: Contents of Notice of General Meetings Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009 the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 50.1 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 50.1: 50.1 Every notice calling a General Meeting shall specify the place and the day and hour of the meeting and there shall appear, with reasonable prominence in every such notice a statement that a member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him on a poll or a show of hands and that a proxy need not be a member of the company.
6 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc in accordance with the Dual Listed Companies agreements.
7: Investec Limited: Amendment to Articles of Association: Votes attaching to shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 63.1 a and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 63.1 a : 63 Votes attaching to shares 63.1 a on a show of hands every member being an individual who is present in person or by proxy, or if a body corporate, represented, shall have one vote: and The reason for and effect of special resolution no.
7 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Companies agreements.
8: Investec Limited: Amendment to Articles of Association: Timing for the deposit of form of proxy Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009 the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 72 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 72: 72 Deposit of form of proxy 72.1 Validly completed proxy appointments will be accepted at the address speci ed for that purpose in or by way of note to or in any document accompanying the notice convening the meeting or, if no address is so speci ed, at the transfer of ce, if the proxy appointment is received: a in the case of a meeting or adjourned meeting, not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the meeting or adjourned meeting and b in the case of a poll taken more than 48 forty eight hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 twenty four hours before the time appointed for taking the poll and in default shall not be treated as valid, unless it is accepted by the Chairman of the meeting to which the proxy appointment relates, or unless the directors give notice that proxy appointments will be accepted up until a date or time closer to the appointed time of the meeting, adjourned meeting or poll.
72.2 A proxy received from the holder of the Limited special convertible redeemable preference shares will be valid if it is received before the closing of the poll to which it relates.
The instrument shall, unless the contrary is stated thereon, be valid as well for any adjournment of the meeting as for the meeting to which it relates.
An instrument of proxy relating to more than one meeting, including any adjournment thereof, having once been so delivered for the purposes of any meeting shall not require again to be delivered for the purposes of any subsequent meeting to which it relates.
8 is to record the period in which a form of proxy must be deposited before the time appointed for a General or an Annual General Meeting, thereby aligning the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Companies agreements.
9: Investec Limited: Amendment to Articles of Association: Rights of proxy Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009 the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 73 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 73: 73 Rights of proxy A proxy shall have the right to exercise all or any of the rights of his appointer, or where more than one proxy is appointed all or any of the rights attached to the shares in respect of which he is appointed the proxy to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the company.
Unless his appointment provides otherwise, a proxy may vote or abstain at his discretion on any resolution put to the vote at the meeting to which his appointment relates.
9 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Companies agreements.
Ordinary business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc: 29.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2009, together with the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the auditors of Investec plc.
To approve the remuneration report of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2008.
12, to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec plc.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, as auditors of Investec plc to hold of ce until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010 and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to x their remuneration.
Special business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary and special resolutions of Investec plc: 34.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Directors authority to allot shares and other securities Resolved that: - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.2 of Article 12 of Investec plcs Articles of Association be renewed for the period ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010 and for such period the Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 amount shall be 915 243 nine hundred and fifteen thousand two hundred and forty three Pounds Sterling.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of Investec plc to allot shares and other securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, up to an amount authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
The authority conferred on the directors at Investec plcs Annual General Meeting held on 7 August 2008 expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 13 August 2009 and the directors of Investec plc recommend that this authority be renewed.
34 will, if passed, authorise the directors of Investec plc to allot Investec plcs unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 915 243 nine hundred and fifteen thousand two hundred and forty three Pounds Sterling as set out in the table below: Number of Relative part Total shares of Section 80 amount 1 Ordinary shares 148 982 054 29 796 2 3 Special converting shares 181 290 334 36 258 915 243 Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares 2 perpetual preference shares 84 918 851 849 189 1.
One third of the issued ordinary share capital in line with that normally adopted by UK companies.
Based on 100% one hundred per cent of the number of unissued shares.
The special converting shares are required by the Dual Listing Companies structure and agreements to re ect the number of ordinary shares issued by Investec Limited at any time and from time to time.
The issue of perpetual shares is non-dilutive to ordinary shareholders.
This amount is higher than the one third of issued ordinary share capital limit normally adopted by UK companies at their Annual General Meetings only due to the inclusion of the special converting shares and perpetual preference shares as noted in no.
2 above, neither of which are dilutive to ordinary shareholders.
While the authority to allot shares to the value of 915 243 nine hundred and fifteen thousand two hundred and forty three Pounds Sterling is given in respect of all of the relevant securities of Investec plc as required by the Companies Act 1985, the directors of Investec plc would ensure that the shares of each class listed in the above table allotted by them would not be in excess of the amount listed in the column entitled Relative part of Section 80 amount for each such class of shares.
As of 12 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, Investec plc holds 0 zero treasury shares.
10: Investec plc: Directors authority to allot ordinary shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
34 the power conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.4 of Article 12 of Investec plcs Articles of Association be renewed for the period referred to in resolution no.
34 and for such period the Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 amount shall be 4 469 four thousand four hundred and sixty nine Pounds Sterling.
The purpose of special resolution no.
10 is to renew the authority of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to existing holdings.
In the case of allotments other than rights issues, the authority is limited to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 4 469 four thousand four hundred and sixty nine Pounds Sterling which represents approximately 5% five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc as at 12 June 2009 being the last practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months after the passing of this special resolution no.
The directors also con rm that pursuant to the Dual Listed Companies structure, the exercise of any such authority would be subject to the following speci c limitations as required by the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements : i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 13 August 2009, whichever period is shorter ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the ordinary shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec plc and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public shareholders and not to related parties.
In order for special resolution no.
10 to be given effect to a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
11: Investec plc: Directors authority to purchase ordinary shares Resolved that: - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to make market purchases as fide ned in Section 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares in the capital of Investec plc provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 44 694 616 forty four million six hundred and ninety four thousand six hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of 0.0002 each ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value of such share at the time of purchase iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% one hundred and five per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased and iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010, or if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to that time.
The directors of Investec plc consider it may, in certain circumstances, be in the best interests of shareholders generally for Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares.
Accordingly, the purpose and effect of special resolution no.
11 is to grant a general authority, subject to the speci ed limits, to Investec plc to acquire ordinary shares of Investec plc.
As of 12 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, there were options outstanding over 32 330 013 thirty two million three hundred and thirty thousand and thirteen ordinary shares, representing 7.2% seven point two per cent of Investec plcs issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to buy back shares under this special resolution no.
11 was exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares would represent 8% eight per cent of Investec plcs issued ordinary share capital.
328 Annual report 2009 Notices The Companies Act 1985 permits Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a view to possible resale at a future date.
The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of making any purchases, but believe that Investec plc should retain the exibility to take further action if future purchases were considered desirable and in the best interest of shareholders.
If Investec plc were to purchase shares under the Companies Act 1985 they will be cancelled or, to the extent determined by the directors of Investec plc, held in treasury, provided that the number of shares held in treasury at any one time does not exceed 10% ten per cent of Investec plcs issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors of Investec plc believe that to do so would result in an increase of earnings per ordinary share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally or, in the case of the creation of treasury shares, that to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
11 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Political donations Resolved that: - in accordance with section 366 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, Investec plc and any company which, at any time during the period for which this resolution has effect, is a subsidiary of Investec plc, be and are hereby authorised to: i make donations to political organisations not exceeding 25 000 twenty five thousand Pounds Sterling in total and ii incur political expenditure not exceeding 75 000 seventy five thousand Pounds Sterling in total.
In each case during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010, provided that the maximum amounts referred to in i and ii may consist of sums in any currency converted into Pounds Sterling at such rate as Investec plc may in its absolute discretion determine.
For the purposes of this resolution, the terms political donations, political organisations and political expenditure shall have the meanings given to them in Sections 363 to 365 of the 2006 Act.
The reason for resolution no.
37 is that the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
Investec plc does not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor does it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, the fide nitions of political donations and political expenditure used in the 2006 Act are very wide.
The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that Investec plc does not inadvertently breach the 2006 Act.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Increase in share capital: Number of ordinary shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registering of special resolution no.
3 as contained in the Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the number of ordinary shares in the authorised capital of Investec plc be and is hereby increased to 700 000 000 seven hundred million by the creation of 140 000 000 one hundred and forty million new ordinary shares of 0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec plc.
The reason for and effect of resolution no.
38 is to increase the number of ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec plc.
Prior to the passing of this resolution no.
38, Investec plc has issued approximately 80% eighty per cent of its authorised share capital.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Increase in share capital: Number of special converting shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registering of special resolution no.
2 as contained in the Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the number of special converting shares of 0.0002 in the authorised share capital of Investec plc be and is hereby increased to 450 000 000 four hundred and fty million by the creation of 150 000 000 one hundred and fty million new special converting shares of 0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec plc.
The reason and effect of resolution no.
39 is to increase the number of authorised special converting shares in the authorised share capital of Investec plc in order to align them with the authorised ordinary share capital of Investec Limited thereby complying with the Dual Listed Companies agreements in place between Investec plc and Investec Limited.
12: Investec plc: Amendments to the Articles of Association Resolved that: - with effect from 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec plc which were produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identi cation as New Articles A be and are hereby adopted as the new Articles of Association of Investec plc New Articles, in substitution for and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association.
12 is to amend and replace the Articles of Association of Investec plc, in part in response to the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited are broadly identical, the differences being due to variances in applicable law in South Africa and the UK.
The main amendments to the Investec plc Articles of Association are as follows: i redraft of provision relating to the timing for deposit of form of proxy ii fide nition of Extraordinary General Meetings removed and replaced with Annual and General Meetings iii Annual General Meetings must now be held within six months of the financial year end iv to enable proxies to speak at Annual and General Meetings if duly appointed and v on a show of hands every member being an individual who is present in person or by proxy, or if a body corporate, represented, shall have one vote.
12 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
The directors of Investec plc consider that the proposed resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Investec plc and its shareholders and recommends that you vote in favour as the directors of Investec plc intend to do in respect of their own bene cial holdings.
By order of the board David Miller Company Secretary 15 June 2009 Registered No: 3633621 Registered Of ce: 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Notes: 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions under the Articles of Association of Investec plc and, accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec plc and the holder of the special voting share in Investec plc are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain open for suf cient time to allow the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting to be held and for the votes of the holder of the Investec plc special voting share to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
On the poll: a each fully paid ordinary share in Investec plc other than those subject to voting restrictions will have 1 one vote b the holder of the Investec plc special voting share will cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting c the holder of the Investec plc special voting share will be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolutions in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting d through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec Limited ordinary shareholders at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting will be re ected at Investec plcs Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action and e the results of the Joint Electorate Action will be announced after both polls have closed.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more persons as his or her proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting, provided that, if more than one proxy is appointed by a member, each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of Investec plc or Investec Limited.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it was executed or a duly certi ed copy of any such power or authority must be returned so as to reach Investec plcs registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to Investec plcs register of members at 11:00 UK time on 11 August 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 forty eight hours before the time xed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Annual General Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting, but the corporate representative has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to in the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed.
Copies of Investec plcs new Articles of Association are available for inspection at Investec plc and Investec Limiteds registered of ces during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc and Investec Limiteds Annual General Meeting to be convened on 13 August 2009 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
Copies of the non-executive directors terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at Investec plc and Investec Limiteds registered of ces during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc and Investec Limiteds Annual General Meeting to be convened on 13 August 2009 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
As of 12 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice Investec plcs issued capital consists of 446 946 162 four hundred and forty six million nine hundred and forty six thousand one hundred and sixty two ordinary shares of 0.0002 each.
Investec plc holds 0 zero ordinary shares in treasury and therefore the total number of voting rights in Investec plc is 446 946 162 four hundred and forty six million nine hundred and forty six thousand one hundred and sixty two.
As of 12 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice Investec Limiteds issued capital consists of 268 709 666 two hundred and sixty eight million seven hundred and nine thousand six hundred and sixty six ordinary shares of R0.0002 each.
Investec Limited holds 25 298 959 twenty five million two hundred and ninety eight thousand nine hundred and fty nine ordinary shares in treasury and therefore the total number of voting rights in Investec Limited is 243 410 707 two hundred and forty three million four hundred and ten thousand seven hundred and seven.
Investec plc has issued 1 one special voting share and Investec Limited has issued special convertible redeemable preference shares to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited on joint electorate actions.
As of 12 June 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice the combined total number of voting rights of Investec plc and Investec Limited is 690 356 869 six hundred and ninety million three hundred and fty six thousand eight hundred and sixty nine.
Annual report 2009 331 Notices Limited Investec Limited Reg.
1925 002833 06 Share Code: INL ISIN: ZAE000081949 Notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited will be held at 12:00 South African time on Thursday, 13 August 2009, at the registered of ce of Investec Limited at 100 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, to transact the following business: Common business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc and Investec Limited: 1.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the dividend access South African Resident redeemable preference share SA DAS share for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2008.
332 Annual report 2009 Notices Special business: Investec Limited To consider and if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following ordinary and special resolutions of Investec Limited: 15.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 5% of the unissued class A variable rate compulsorily convertible noncumulative preference shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited, a total of 2 000 000 two million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares class A preference shares of R0.0002 each, being 5% five per cent of the unissued class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
Ordinary resolution with a 75% majority: Investec Limited: Directors authority to allot and issue ordinary shares for cash in respect of 5% of the unissued ordinary shares Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 9 064 516 nine million sixty four thousand five hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of R0.0002 each for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following speci c limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009, whichever period is shorter ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible Annual report 2009 333 Notices iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the ordinary shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited and v the ordinary shares must be issued to public shareholders, as fide ned in the JSE Listing Requirements, and not to related parties.
2 becomes effective and 3.373% three point three seven per cent thereafter of the number of issued ordinary shares which is signi cantly lower than the 15% fifteen per cent permitted in terms of the JSE Listing Requirements.
35 are both passed and, subject to the limits speci ed in those respective resolutions, the directors will have authority to allot up to 5% five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and up to 5% five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of Investec Limited for cash other than by way of rights issue.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to allot and issue 2 000 000 two million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares class A preference shares of R0.0002 each being 5% five per cent of the unissued class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following speci c limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2010 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 13 August 2009, whichever period is shorter ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per class A preference share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of class A preference shares in issue prior to such issue iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of class A preference shares in issue iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of class A preference shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the class A preference shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited and v the class A preference shares must be issued to public shareholders, as fide ned in the JSE Listing Requirements, and not to related parties.
94 of 1990, as amended, the SA Act and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited the JSE and the JSE Listing Requirements, being, inter alia, that: 334 Annual report 2009 Notices i any such acquisition of ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares shall be effected through the order book operated by the JSE trading system and done without any prior understanding or arrangement ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec Limiteds next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010, or for 15 fifteen months from the date of the passing of this special resolution no.
Directors responsibility statement The directors, whose names appear on pages 219 to 222 of the 2009 Annual Report, collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to this special resolution and certify that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there are no facts that have been omitted which would make any statement false or misleading and that all reasonable enquiries to ascertain such facts have been made and that the special resolution contains all information.
Annual report 2009 335 Notices The following additional information, some of which may appear elsewhere in the 2009 Annual Report, is provided in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements for purposes of the general authority: - Directors and management Annual Report pages 219 to 225: - Major bene cial shareholders Annual Report page 216: - Directors interests in ordinary shares Annual Report page 201: - Share capital of Investec Limited Annual Report pages 299 to 301 21.
39 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, in terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
3 is to increase the number of authorised special convertible redeemable preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited in order to align them with the authorised ordinary share capital of Investec plc, thereby complying with the Dual Listed Companies agreements in place between Investec plc and Investec Limited.
4: Investec Limited: Amendment to Memorandum of Association Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of the above special resolution nos.
2 and 3 and the passing of resolution nos.
61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act, Article 149 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 13 August 2009, the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the entire paragraph 8 a and the substitution thereof with the following new paragraph 8 a : 8 a Par value: The share capital of Investec Limited is R1 268 002.00 one million two hundred and sixty-eight thousand and two rand divided into: i 450 000 000 four hundred and fty million ordinary shares of R0.0002 each ii 40 000 000 forty million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares of R0.0002 each iii 50 000 fty thousand variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares of R0.60 each iv 100 000 000 one hundred million non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of R0.01 each v 1 one dividend access South Africa Resident redeemable preference share of R1.00 vi 1 one dividend access non-South African Resident redeemable preference share of R1.00 vii 700 000 000 seven hundred million special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 47 and the insertion of the following new Article 47: 47 Annual and General Meetings An Annual General Meeting shall be held once in every year, at such time within a period of not more than six months from the day following the companys financial year end and not more than fifteen months after the holding of the last preceding Annual General Meeting, at a place as may be determined by the directors.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 50.1 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 50.1: 50.1.
Every notice calling a General Meeting shall specify the place and the day and hour of the meeting and there shall appear, with reasonable prominence in every such notice a statement that a member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him on a poll or a show of hands and that a proxy need not be a member of the company.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 63.1. a and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 63.1. a : 63 Votes attaching to shares 63.1. a on a show of hands every member being an individual who is present in person or by proxy, or if a body corporate, represented, shall have one vote: and The reason for and effect of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 72 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 72: 72 Deposit of form of proxy 72.1 Validly completed proxy appointments will be accepted at the address speci ed for that purpose in or by way of note to or in any document accompanying the notice convening the meeting or, if no address is so speci ed, at the transfer of ce, if the proxy appointment is received: a in the case of a meeting or adjourned meeting, not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the meeting or adjourned meeting and b in the case of a poll taken more than 48 forty eight hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 twenty four hours before the time appointed for taking the poll and in default shall not be treated as valid, unless it is accepted by the Chairman of the meeting to which the proxy appointment relates, or unless the directors give notice that proxy appointments will be accepted up until a date or time closer to the appointed time of the meeting, adjourned meeting or poll.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 73 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 73: 73 Rights of proxy A proxy shall have the right to exercise all or any of the rights of his appointer, or where more than one proxy is appointed all or any of the rights attached to the shares in respect of which he is appointed the proxy to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of 1 More London Place, London SE1 2AF, as auditors of Investec plc to hold of ce until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010 and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to x their remuneration.
Special business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed t, to pass, with or without modi cation, the following resolutions of Investec plc: 34.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of Investec plc to allot shares and other securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an amount authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
The authority conferred on the directors at Investec plcs Annual General Meeting held on 07 August 2008 expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 13 August 2009 and the directors of Investec plc recommend that this authority be renewed.
338 Annual report 2009 Notices Resolution no.
The special converting shares are required by the Dual Listed Companies structure and agreements to re ect the number of ordinary shares issued by Investec Limited at any time and from time to time.
The issue of perpetual preference shares is non-dilutive to ordinary shareholders.
While the authority to allot shares to the value of 915 243 nine hundred and fifteen thousand two hundred and forty three Pounds Sterling is given in respect of all of the relevant securities of Investec plc as required by the Companies Act 1985, the directors of Investec plc would ensure that the shares of each class listed in the above table allotted by them would not be in excess of the amount listed in the column entitled relative part of Section 80 amount for each such class of shares.
Ordinary resolution with a 75% majority: Investec plc: Directors authority to allot ordinary shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
34, the power conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.4 of Article 12 of Investec plcs Articles of Association be renewed for the period referred to in resolution no.
34 and for such period the Section 89 of the Companies Act, amount shall be 4 469 four thousand four hundred and sixty nine Pounds Sterling.
The purpose of resolution no.
35 is to renew the authority of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to existing holdings.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months after the passing of this resolution no.
In order for resolution no.
35 to be given effect to, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
Ordinary resolution with a 75% majority: Investec plc: Directors authority to purchase ordinary shares Resolved that: - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to make market purchases as fide ned in Section 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares in the capital of Investec plc provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 44 694 616 forty four million six hundred and ninety four thousand six hundred and sixteen ordinary shares of 0.0002 each ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value of such share at the time of purchase iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% one hundred and five per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased and iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010, or if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to that time.
Accordingly, the purpose and effect of resolution no.
36 is to grant a general authority, subject to the speci ed limits, to Investec plc to acquire ordinary shares of Investec plc.
If the authority to buy back shares under this ordinary resolution no.
36 was exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares would represent 8% eight per cent of Investec plcs issued ordinary share capital.
The Companies Act 1985 permits Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a view to possible resale at a future date.
36 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no 36.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Political donations Resolved that: - in accordance with Section 366 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act Investec plc and any company which, at any time during the period for which this resolution has effect, is a subsidiary of Investec plc, be and are hereby authorised to: i make donations to political organisations not exceeding 25 000 twenty five thousand Pounds Sterling in total and ii incur political expenditure not exceeding 75 000 seventy five thousand Pounds Sterling in total, in each case during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2010, provided that the maximum amounts referred to in i and ii may consist of sums in any currency converted into Pounds Sterling at such rate as Investec plc may in its absolute discretion determine.
Investec plc does not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor does the company make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
The authority given is a precautionary measure to ensure that Investec plc does not inadvertently breach the 2006 Act.
3 as contained in the Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the number of ordinary shares of 0.0002 in the authorised capital of Investec plc be and is hereby increased to 700 000 000 seven hundred million by the creation of 140 000 000 one hundred and forty million new ordinary shares of 0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec plc.
2 as contained in the Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 13 August 2009, the number of special converting shares in the authorised share capital of Investec plc be and is hereby increased to 450 000 000 four hundred and fty million by the creation of 150 000 000 one hundred and fty million new special converting shares of 0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec plc.
39 is to increase the number of authorised special converting shares in the authorised share capital of Investec plc to the authorised ordinary share capital of Investec Limited, thereby complying with the Dual Listed Companies agreements in place between Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Ordinary resolution with a 75% majority: Investec plc: Amendments to the Articles of Association Resolved that: - with effect from 13 August 2009, the Articles of Association of Investec plc which were produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identi cation as New Articles A be and are hereby adopted as the new Articles of Association of Investec plc New Articles, in substitution for and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association.
40 is to amend and replace the Articles of Association of Investec plc in part in response to the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The main amendments to the Investec plc Articles of Association are as follows: i redraft of provision relating to the timing for deposit of form of proxy ii fide nition of Extraordinary General Meetings removed and replaced with Annual General Meetings iii Annual General Meetings must now be held within six months of the financial year end iv to enable proxies to speak at Annual and General Meetings if duly appointed and v on a show of hands every member being an individual who is present in person or by proxy, or if a body corporate, represented, shall have one vote.
40 to be passed, a 75% seventyfive per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
The directors of Investec Limited consider that the proposed resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Investec Limited and its shareholders and recommend that you vote in favour as the directors of Investec Limited intend to do in respect of their own bene cial holdings.
By order of the board, Benita Coetsee Company Secretary 15 June 2009 Registration No: 1925 002833 06 Registered Of ce: c o Company Secretarial Investec Limited 100 Grayston Drive Sandown Sandton, 2196 PO Box 785700, Sandton, 2146 Annual report 2009 341 Notices Notes: 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions under the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec Limited and the holders of the special convertible redeemable preference shares in Investec Limited are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain open for suf cient time to allow the Investec plc Annual General Meeting to be held and for the vote of the holder of the Investec Limited special convertible redeemable preference shares to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
On the poll: a each ordinary share in Investec Limited other than those subject to voting restrictions will have 1 one vote b the holder of the Investec Limited special convertible redeemable preference shares will cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting c the holder of the Investec Limited special convertible redeemable preference shares will be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolution in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec plc shareholders on the poll at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting d through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec plc ordinary shareholders at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting will be re ected at Investec Limiteds Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action and e the results of the Joint Electorate Actions will be announced after both polls have closed.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed or a duly certi ed copy of any such power or authority, must be deposited at the transfer secretarys of ce at 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001, not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting 6.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to Investec Limiteds register of members at 12:00 South African time on 11 August 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 forty eight hours before the time xed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Annual General Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as a corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting, but the corporate representative has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Copies of Investec plcs new Articles of Association are available for inspection at Investec plc and Investec Limiteds registered of ce during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc and Investec Limiteds Annual General Meeting to be convened on 13 August 2009 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
Copies of the non-executive directors terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at Investec plc and Investec Limiteds registered of ce during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc and Investec Limiteds Annual General Meeting to be convened on 13 August 2009 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
Investec plc has issued 1 one special converting share and Investec Limited has issued special convertible redeemable preference shares to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited on joint electorate actions.
342 Annual report 2009 Contact details Contact details Australia, Brisbane Hong Kong Level 31 Riparian Plaza Unit 4209 42 F The Gloucester Tower 71 Eagle Street Brisbane The Landmark Central Hong Kong QLD 4000 Australia Telephone 852 3187 5000 Telephone 61 7 3018 8100 Facsimile 852 2524 3360 Facsimile 61 7 3018 8108 e-mail investec.
au Suites 2604-06 Tower 2 The Gateway Harbour City Tsimshatsui Kowloon Australia, Melbourne Hong Kong Telephone 852 2861 6888 Level 49 120 Collins Street Facsimile 852 2861 6861 Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia Ireland, Dublin Telephone 61 3 8660 1000 Facsimile 61 3 8660 1010 e-mail australia@investec.
au The Harcourt Building Harcourt Street Dublin 2 Ireland Australia, Sydney Telephone 353 1 421 0000 Facsimile 353 1 421 0500 Level 31 The Chi ey Tower e-mail info@investec.
ie 2 Chi ey Square Phillip Street Sydney Mauritius, Ebne Cyber City NSW 2000 Australia Telephone 61 2 9293 2000 Facsimile 61 2 9293 2002 Level 8C Cyber Tower II e-mail australia@investec.
au Ebne Cyber City Telephone 230 403 0400 Facsimile 230 403 0498 Botswana, Gaborone e-mail info@investec.
com Plot 64511 Unit 5 Mauritius, Port Louis Fairgrounds Gaborone Telephone 09 267 318 0112 7th Floor Harbour Front Building Facsimile 09 267 318 0114 President John Kennedy Street Port Louis e-mail info@investec.
com Telephone 230 207 4000 Facsimile 230 207 4002 Canada, Toronto e-mail info@investec.
com T66 Wellington Street West Suite 2701 Namibia, Windhoek PO Box 307 Toronto-Dominion Centre Toronto Ontario M5K 1K2 Of ce 1 Ground oor Heritage Square Building PO Box 307 Toronto Ontario M5K 1K2 100 Robert Mugabe Avenue Windhoek Telephone 1 416 687 2400 Telephone 264 61 389 500 Facsimile 1 416 364 3434 Facsimile 264 61 249 689 e-mail info@investec.
com Channel Islands, St Helier South Africa, Cape Town 5 Castle Street St Helier Jersey 36 Hans Strijdom Avenue JE4 8UW Channel Islands Foreshore Cape Town 8001 Telephone 44 1534 512 512 PO Box 1826 Cape Town 8000 Facsimile 44 1534 512 513 Telephone 27 21 416 1000 e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
com Facsimile 27 21 416 1001 Channel Islands, St Peter Port South Africa, Durban La Vieille Cour St Peter Port 1 Holwood Park Guernsey 5 Canegate Drive GY1 3LP Channel Islands La Lucia Durban 4051 Telephone 44 1481 711 500 PO Box 3912 Durban 4000 Facsimile 44 1481 741 147 Telephone 27 31 575 4000 e-mail enquiries@investec-ci.
com Facsimile 27 865 009 901 Annual report 2009 343 Contact details Contact details South Africa, East London South Africa, Stellenbosch Pilot Mill House The Quarry Block D fide Wagen Road Of ce Park Selbourne East London 5247 Stellentia Avenue Stellenbosch 7600 PO Box 19484 Tacoma 5214 PO Box 19428 The Village 1218 Telephone 27 43 721 0660 Telephone 27 21 809 0700 Facsimile 27 43 721 0664 Facsimile 27 21 809 0730 South Africa, Johannesburg Switzerland, Geneva 100 Grayston Drive 3 Place des Bergues Sandown Sandton 2196 Geneva 1201 Switzerland PO Box 785700 Sandton 2146 Telephone 41 22 807 2000 Telephone 27 11 286 7000 Facsimile 41 22 807 2005 Facsimile 27 11 286 7777 e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
ch e-mail, South African of ces Recruitment queries recruitment@investec.
co. za Switzerland, Zurich Client queries - Asset management: comcentre@investecmail.
com Loewenstrasse 29 - Institutional Securities: securities@investec.
co. za Zurich CH-8001 Switzerland - Private Client Securities: iso@investec.
co. za Telephone 41 44 226 1000 - Property Group: ipg@investec.
co. za Facsimile 41 44 226 1010 - Private Bank: privatebank@investec.
co. za e-mail info@investecbank.
ch - Capital Markets: info-tsf@investec.
co. za United Kingdom, Abingdon South Africa, Knysna Windrush Court Blacklands Way TH24 & TH25 Long Street Ext Abingdon Oxon Thesen Harbour Town Knysna 6571 OX14 1SY UK Telephone 27 44 302 1800 Telephone 44 1235 555 577 Facsimile 27 44 382 4954 Facsimile 44 1235 555 577 e-mail iaf@investec.
co. uk South Africa, Nelspruit United Kingdom, London 2nd oor 2 McAdam Street Cnr McAdam and Rothery Streets 2 Gresham Street London Nelspruit 1200 EC2V 7QP UK PO Box 19428 The Village 1218 Telephone 44 207 597 4000 Telephone 27 13 756 0900 Facsimile 44 207 597 4070 Facsimile 27 13 756 0990 25 Basinghalll Street London South Africa, Pietermartizburg EC2V 5HA UK Telephone 44 207 597 2000 Acacia House Redlands Estate Facsimile 44 207 597 1818 1 George MacFarlane Lane Pietermaritzburg 3201 P O Box 594 Pietermaritzburg 3200 United Kingdom, Manchester Telephone 27 33 264 5800 Facsimile 27 33 342 1561 The Pinnacle 73 King Street Manchester South Africa, Port Elizabeth M24NG UK Telephone 44 161 819 7900 Fairview Of ce Park 66 Ring Road Facsimile 44 161 819 7901 Greenacres Port Elizabeth 6045 e-mail richard.
co. uk PO Box 27416 Greenacres 6057 Telephone 27 41 396 6700 United States, New York Facsimile 27 41 363 1667 666 Fifth Avenue 15th Floor New York South Africa, Pretoria NY 10103 USA Telephone 212 786 7589 Cnr Atterbury and Klarinet Streets Facsimile 917 206 5102 Menlo Park Pretoria 0081 PO Box 1882 Brooklyn Square 0075 Taiwan Telephone 27 12 427 8300 Facsimile 27 12 427 8310 Unit B 20F Taipei 101 Tower 7 Xin Yi Rd Sec 5 Taipei 110 Taiwan Telephone 886 2 8101 0800 Facsimile 886 2 8101 0900 344 Annual report 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2009 Corporate information Investec plc and Investec Limited Secretary and Registered Of ce Directorate Investec plc Executive directors David Miller Stephen Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 2 Gresham Street Bernard Kantor Managing Director London EC2V 7QP Glynn R Burger Group Risk and Finance Director United Kingdom Alan Tapnack Telephone 44 20 7597 4541 Facsimile 44 20 7597 4491 Non-executive directors Hugh S Herman Non-executive Chairman Investec Limited Sam E Abrahams Benita Coetsee George F O Alford 100 Grayston Drive Cheryl C Carolus Sandown Sandton 2196 Haruko Fukuda OBE PO Box 785700 Sandton 2196 Geoffrey M T Howe Telephone 27 11 286 7957 Ian R Kantor Facsimile 27 11 291 1806 Sir Chips Keswick Senior Independent NED Peter M Malungani Sir David Prosser Peter R S Thomas Internet address Fani Titi www.
com Investec of ces - contact details Registration number Refer to pages 136 and 137 Investec plc Reg.
3633621 Investec Limited For queries regarding information in this document: Reg.
1925 002833 06 Investor Relations Auditors Telephone 27 11 286 7070 44 20 7597 5546 Ernst & Young LLP e-mail: investorrelations@investec.
com Ernst & Young Inc. Internet address: www.
com en za #home investor relations.
html Transfer Secretaries in the UK Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgewater Road Bristol B599 6ZY United Kingdom Telephone 44 870 702 0001 Transfer Secretaries in South Africa Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 PO Box 61051 Marshalltown 2107 Telephone 27 11 370 5000 Contents 1 Overview of the year 9 Operating Financial Review 31 Risk and governance 69 Remuneration Report 89 Our Business Responsibility 95 Additional information 109 Financial statements The Summary Financial Statements have been approved by the board of directors of the group and were signed on its behalf by the Chief Executive Of cer, Mr S Koseff.
This document provides a summary of the information contained in Investecs 2009 Annual Report Annual Report.
It is not the groups statutory accounts and does not contain suf cient information to allow for a complete understanding of the results and state of affairs of the group as would be provided by the full Annual Report.
For further information consult the full Annual Financial Statements, the unquali ed Auditors Reports on those financial statements and the Directors Report.
The auditors reports did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 or Section 237 3 of the UK Companies Act.
Should you wish to obtain a copy of the full 2009 Annual Report, please contact the Investor Relations division, whose contact details appear at the beginning of this report.
Furthermore, the 2009 Annual Report may be viewed on our website.
Overview of the year Snapshot of the year Overview Financial features Investec recorded another resilient performance.
Operating pro t before impairment losses on loans and Operating pro ts reported across all geographies, supported advances increased 4.8% to 652.9 million.
by: Operating pro t before taxation decreased 22.0% to - A diversi ed business model 396.8 million.
- A sound balance sheet with low leverage Adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders decreased - A solid recurring revenue base 21.9% to 269.2 million.
We emerged from this period with our capacity to compete, Recurring income as a percentage of total operating income our brand and our entrepreneurial spirit unimpeded.
Disciplined focus by management across the group to build Total shareholders equity increased 18.6% to 2 621 million.
capital, preserve liquidity and maintain ef ciency.
Tangible net asset value per share increased 23.9% to ROE and adjusted earnings per share EPS targets were 266.3 pence.
dif cult to achieve given the challenging economic conditions.
Core loans and advances to customers increased 26.2% to Adjusted EPS declined by 25.5% to 42.4 pence, as a result of 16.2 billion.
reduced activity levels, lower asset valuations and the weaker Third party assets under management decreased by 7.4% to credit cycle: the credit loss ratio increased in line with 48.8 billion.
Customer deposits increased 20.1% to 14.6 billion.
Proposed full year dividend decreased 48.0% to 13.0 pence.
Financial objectives Continued focus on building our Target in 31 March 31 March recurring income... to ensure 2009 2008 a sustainable earnings base ROE 20% 14.8% 23.6% Cost to income ratio 65% 55.9% 56.1% Adjusted EPS growth 10% 25.5% 6.8% UK RPI Total operating income Dividend cover 1.7 - 3.3 2.3 3.5 times mn Capital adequacy ratio 14% - 17% plc: 16.2% plc: 15.3% 1 600 Ltd: 14.2% Ltd: 13.9% 1 400 Tier 1 11% plc: 10.1% plc: 9.2% Ltd: 10.8% Ltd: 10.0% 1 200 Before goodwill, non-operating items and after minorities These targets were originally disclosed in May 2004 and are 1 000 medium to long-term targets.
We aim to achieve them through varying market conditions.
The capital adequacy and 800 dividend cover targets were revised in November 2008 600 400 200 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Recurring 63% 59% 57% 59% 65% 70% income as a % of total income Other income largely operating income from associates Principal transactions and other operating income Net fee and commission income Net interest income 2 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Snapshot of the year A diversi ed business model... stood us in good stead during the down turn % contribution to operating profi t excluding Group Services % contribution to operating profi t and Other Activities 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Private Client Activities Asset Management Southern Africa: 74% Capital Markets Investment Banking UK, Europe, Australia and Other: 26% Property Activities Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities Balance sheet strength... stringent management of liquidity The intimate involvement of senior management ensures stringent management of risk and liquidity.
Surplus cash and near cash A well established liquidity management philosophy.
Continue to focus on: mn - Maintaining a high level of readily available, high quality 7 000 liquid assets - representing 20% to 30% of our liability base 6 000 - Diversifying funding sources - Limiting concentration risk - Maintaining a low reliance on interbank wholesale funding 5 000 to fund core lending Customer deposits have held up well over the period.
4 000 Average: 4.9 billion Active campaigns to build our retail deposit franchise have been launched in the UK, Ireland and Australia and more 3 000 recently in South Africa.
Total net retail and private client in ows since December 2008 of about 1 billion.
2 000 We have been successful in securing medium term syndicated loans due to our long standing counterparty 1 000 relationships.
The bank in the UK is eligible to issue 3 year debt guaranteed by the UK government.
0 Investec Bank Australia Limited is eligible to issue government backed debt and has recently completed a 3 year and 5 year government guaranteed xed rate Apr 08 Jun 08 Aug 08 Oct 08 Dec 08 Feb 09 Apr 09 transferable deposit issue.
Total 31 March 2009 4.9bn Investec Limited 2.4bn Investec plc 2.5bn 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 3 Snapshot of the year Balance sheet strength... good progress towards capital targets Our policy has always been to hold capital well in excess Basel II Pillar 1 Capital Tier 1 of regulatory requirements and we intend to perpetuate this 31 March 2009 adequacy ratio philosophy.
ratio We maintained capital strength throughout the period without recourse to shareholders, new investors or government Investec plc 16.2% 10.1% assistance.
Investec Bank plc 15.9% 10.3% We are focusing on increasing our capital base and have Investec Bank Australia Limited 18.3% 14.4% revised our capital adequacy targets.
Investec Limited 14.2% 10.8% We have made good progress in achieving these targets and Investec Bank Limited 14.2% 10.5% intend on meeting these targets by the end of calendar year 2010.
Balance sheet strength... low leverage ratios 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 Core loans to equity ratio 6.2x 5.8x Core loans excluding own originated assets which have been securitised to customer deposits 1.0x 1.0x Total gearing excluding assurance assets 12.9x 13.8x Total gearing excluding assurance and securitised assets 11.7x 12.1x Balance sheet strength... impairments and defaults have increased as expected All geographies have experienced an increase in impairments and defaults as a result of weak economic conditions.
Defaults and core loans Credit risk however, remains appropriately managed and net defaults after collateral and impairments would be % bn covered 100%.
4 18 Credit and counterparty exposures are to select target markets: 16 - Private Bank lends to high net worth and high income clients 14 3 - Capital Markets transacts primarily with mid to large sized corporates, public sector bodies and institutions 12 10 2 8 6 1 4 2 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio Net defaults before collateral as a % of core loans and advances 4 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Strategic focus Medium-term strategy continues We are a niched and focused specialist banking group constantly striving to be distinctive.
We continue to focus on: - Moderating loan growth, shifting emphasis to increasing the proportion of non-lending revenue base - Maintaining credit quality - Strictly managing risk and liquidity - Creating additional operational ef ciencies and containing costs - Building business depth rather than business breadth by deepening existing client relationships and generating high quality income through diversi ed, sustainable revenue streams - Proactively building our brand.
Maintaining ef ciency... cost to income ratio declined to 55.9% Total headcount is being tightly managed across the group.
Expense growth excluding variable remuneration is Effi ciency ratio targeted below the respective in ation rates in each of the core geographies.
mn A non-cash deferred component has been introduced to 1 600 variable remuneration payments.
CAGR: 19.5% 1 400 1 200 1 000 800 CAGR: 12.9% 600 400 200 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Operating income Administration expenses Before investments consolidated in the Private Equity portfolio 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 5 Strategic focus Continually realigning the business model... balancing operational risk businesses with financial risk businesses mn Build non-lending Moderate loan growth 1 000 revenue Price risk appropriately 800 Take advantage of opportunities Build customer deposits 600 400 200 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Net interest income and principal transactions Third party assets and advisory Net interest income and principal transactions after impairments Third party assets and Net interest income and Core advisory and advisory principal transactions Core banking Asset management Lending portfolios Property funds Principal transactions Private equity funds Structured transactions Market making Containing costs Maintaining credit quality Strictly managing risk and liquidity Outlook The outlook for the global economy is uncertain and markets are likely to remain volatile.
There have been some positive signals recently but this was a financial crisis like no other and the knock-on effect to global growth cannot be fully assessed yet.
The competitive landscape has changed and our brand continues to gain recognition.
We are independent and have a distinct franchise.
We have strengthened our capital position and will continue to safeguard our liquidity.
We believe that the market upheaval will present opportunities to strengthen our position across our core geographies and enable us to move onto the front foot.
6 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Overview of the year Operating Financial Review Operating Financial Review A sound balance sheet and operational diversity support pro tability in challenging economic conditions Financial year 2009 was one of the toughest in our history.
Global financial markets experienced a series of extraordinary and tumultuous events which humbled most financial institutions.
In response to this environment, we took swift action to adapt our business model with a focused approach by management across the group to build capital, preserve liquidity and maintain ef ciency.
This action, together with our balanced portfolio of businesses, enabled us to navigate a steady course and we have emerged from this period with our capacity to compete, our brand and our entrepreneurial spirit intact.
The strength of our operational diversity and a solid recurring revenue base enabled all geographies to remain pro table.
Nevertheless, the environment did negatively impact activity levels, asset valuations and credit loss ratios with adjusted earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items declining 25.5% to 42.4 pence 2008: 56.9 pence.
The board recommended a final dividend of 5.0 pence per ordinary share, bringing total dividends per share for the year to 13.0 pence, down from 25.0 pence in 2008.
Focus to strengthen capital and safeguard liquidity while maintaining ef ciency Throughout the financial crisis we have bene ted from a stable balance sheet and the intimate involvement of senior management in monitoring risk and liquidity.
The group holds capital well in excess of regulatory requirements and was able to increase the capital adequacy ratio for Investec plc from 15.3% at the beginning of the financial year to 16.2% at the end of the period and from 13.9% to 14.2% for Investec Limited.
We intend to ensure that the group remains well capitalised in a transformed capital environment and have revised our internal capital requirements accordingly.
Safeguarding liquidity has been a key management priority for many years with the group holding, on average over the financial year, some 4.9 billion of cash and near cash to support its activities.
Diversifying funding sources is also an important focus and a number of initiatives were implemented to increase private client and retail deposits.
Strong retail in ows of 1 billion were recorded in the final quarter.
Furthermore, active campaigns to build the groups retail deposit franchise were launched in the UK, Ireland and Australia towards the end of 2008, and more recently in South Africa.
Our long standing counterparty relationships proved fruitful with several medium term syndicated loans being secured during the period.
In contrast to many of our international peers, we have consistently maintained low gearing ratios.
This is represented by core loans and advances to equity at 6.2 times 2008: 5.8 times and total assets excluding assurance assets to equity at 12.9 times 2008: 13.8 times.
Driving ef ciencies across the group has played a pivotal role in supporting pro tability with the ratio of total operating expenses to total operating income improving to 55.9% from 56.1%.
Total headcount continues to be tightly managed and expense growth excluding variable remuneration is targeted below the respective in ation rates in each of our principal geographies.
Diversi ed portfolio of businesses provides solid base Our diversi ed portfolio of businesses has provided a solid base for pro tability with stronger growth from the Capital Markets division.
Private Client Activities Private Client Activities reported a decline in operating pro t of 46.0% to 104.6 million 2008: 193.7 million.
Higher average advances and a diversi ed set of revenues continued to drive operating income in the Private Banking division with operating pro t decreasing 51.6% to 80.5 million.
Reduced activity levels and the weaker credit environment resulted in higher impairment losses on loans and advances in all geographies.
The private client core lending book grew by 24.3% to 11.1 billion 2008: 8.9 billion and the division increased its deposit book by 17.0% to 7.7 billion 2008: 6.6 billion.
Funds under advice decreased 11.2% to 3.3 billion 2008: 3.7 billion.
With the outlook still dependent on the environment, the Private Bank continues to focus on managing under performing loans and impairments to ensure they remain stable.
Growth in the loan portfolio is expected to be at and the division will maximise efforts to target retail deposits and increase the contribution from the private wealth management business.
Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking reported a decrease in operating pro t of 11.8% to 24.1 million 2008: 27.3 million.
The South African business was negatively impacted by lower turnover and valuations and the absence of performance fees on alternative investments with funds under management decreasing 24.6% to R85.0 billion 2008: R112.7 billion.
A diverse business mix and strong annuity income from discretionary funds under management should provide resilience if the environment remains challenging.
The UK operations include our 47.3% share of the directors estimate of the post-tax pro t of Rensburg Sheppards plc.
10 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Operating Financial Review Capital Markets Capital Markets advisory, structuring and trading activities performed well resulting in an increase in operating pro t for the division of 22.3% to 141.4 million 2008: 115.6 million.
Core loans and advances increased 26.5% to 4.8 billion from 3.8 billion at 31 March 2008.
Kensington Group plc, which was acquired in the prior year, produced a stable performance and reported operating pro t of 37.1 million 2008: 24.3 million.
The Capital Markets division remains well positioned to grow market share and extend its franchise although impairments remain a challenge.
Investment Banking The tough operating environment had the most severe impact on our Investment Banking business with mixed performances across geographies resulting in an overall decrease of 61.1% in operating pro t to 28.2 million 2008: 72.5 million.
The agency divisions closed fewer deals in comparison to the prior year but reported higher trading revenues.
The UK operations were impacted by a much weaker performance from certain of the investments held within the Private Equity and Direct Investments division, whilst the South African Private Equity operations recorded another steady performance.
Our teams are stable and performance in the next period will depend on stability and activity levels in equity markets.
Asset Management Asset Management reported a resilient performance although operating pro t was down 13.4% to 66.2 million 2008: 76.4 million as a result of a tougher mutual fund environment and weak equity markets.
The division continued to bene t from a shift in the mix of funds managed and good investment performance.
Investec Asset Management had the best net ows in nine years as a result of its recognised long term performance and well established global distribution footprint.
Assets under management increased by 0.3% to 28.8 billion 2008: 28.7 billion.
The current investment capabilities and distribution reach of the division are well aligned with future demand and support the fundamentals of the business.
Property Activities Property Activities generated operating pro t of 24.7 million 2008: 36.3 million.
The results of the division, based mainly in South Africa, were supported by fees earned on projects completed in the current year and a satisfactory performance from the investment property portfolio.
The outlook for this business is positive with prospects arising from the global financial turmoil in both the listed and physical property space.
Group Services and Other Activities Group Services and Other Activities contributed 31.7 million to operating pro t 2008: 14.1 million with Central Funding bene ting from increased cash holdings and higher average interest rates in South Africa.
Committed to playing a constructive role in restoring stability to the system The financial services industry has much to do to regain the publics trust and to ensure the return of con dence to banking and finance.
As conditions change, we remain committed not only to playing a constructive role in restoring stability to the broader financial system but we are also mindful of our obligations to society and our stakeholders.
As we return to a more conducive business operating environment, we believe that all stakeholders will bene t as we do the right thing for our clients and the communities we serve.
Rigorous client focus and depth of leadership The past year was a dif cult one for all stakeholders who have been deeply impacted by global events in varying capacities.
Through it all, our people who are deeply committed to the business and know that clients are contending with dif cult economic and financial pressures, maintained a rigorous client focus.
Over the years, we have recruited and retained many talented people who thrive on the groups entrepreneurial environment in their endeavours to produce positive results for clients.
More than 24% of our staff have stayed with the group over 8 years and 38% more than 4 years.
This is a testament to the commitment of our culture and depth of our leadership and the perpetuation of our culture.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 11 Operating Financial Review Strategy continues to be niched and focused Our business model remains intact and our strategy to be niched and focused has supported us through a very dif cult period.
Accordingly, we will continue to focus on moderate loan growth, maintaining credit quality, the strict management of risk and liquidity and ensuring operational ef ciencies.
Building business depth by deepening existing client relationships is still a key component of our strategy.
Strong franchise will enable us to capitalise on opportunities The outlook for the global economy is uncertain and financial market conditions are likely to remain fragile.
However, our capital position and distinct franchise should enable us to move quickly onto the front foot once markets turn.
Looking ahead, we will continue to seek out opportunities that are expected to arise in a much changed landscape.
Hugh Herman Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Managing Director Operating pro t as used in the text above refers to operating pro t before non-operating items, goodwill and taxation and after minorities.
12 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Financial and business review Overview This commentary and analysis of our financial results for the year ended 31 March 2009 provides an overview of our financial performance relative to the groups results for the year ended 31 March 2008.
The commentary and analysis are based on our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The financial information discussed below is based on the period under review, and may not neccessarily re ect the financial condition or results of the operations of the group going forward.
All references in this document referring to Investec or the group relate to the combined DLC group comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Operating pro t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities by geography mn 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 March 2009 March 2008 UK and Europe Southern Africa Australia Total group Operating pro t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities by division mn 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 March 2009 March 2008 Private Client Capital Investment Asset Property Group Services Total group Activities Markets Banking Management Activities and Other Activities 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 13 104.5 100.9 193.8 137.6 141.4 115.6 293.4 339.2 28.2 72.5 2.5 66.2 31.9 76.4 24.7 396.8 36.3 508.7 31.8 14.1 396.8 508.7 Financial and business review Operating environment Key macro-economic data pertaining to the groups three principal geographies: the UK, South Africa and Australia is set out below.
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Period end Average Period end Average UK Clearing Banks Base Rate 0.57% 3.74% 5.25% 5.54% LIBOR - 3 month 1.65% 4.63% 6.01% 6.05% South Africa Prime Overdraft Rate 13.00% 15.06% 14.50% 13.61% JIBAR - 3 month 8.80% 11.63% 11.38% 10.38% Reserve Bank of Australia cash target rate 3.25% 5.84% 7.25% 6.57% FTSE All Share Index 1 984 2 486 2 927 3 245 JSE All Share Index 20 364 24 734 29 588 28 978 Australian All Ordinaries Index 3 532 4 491 5 410 6 190 Source: Datastream Fluctuations in exchange rates Our reporting currency is Pounds Sterling.
Certain of our operations are conducted by entities outside the UK.
The results of operations and the financial condition of our individual companies are reported in the local currencies of the countries in which they are domiciled including Rands, Australian Dollars, Euros and US Dollars.
These results are then translated into Pounds Sterling at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our combined consolidated financial results.
In the case of the income statement, the weighted average rate for the relevant period is applied and, in the case of the balance sheet, the relevant closing rate is used.
The following table sets out the movements in certain relevant exchange rates against Pounds Sterling over the period.
Currency per 1.00 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Period end Average Period end Average South African Rand 13.58 14.83 16.17 14.31 Australian Dollar 2.07 2.19 2.18 2.32 Euro 1.08 1.21 1.25 1.42 US Dollar 1.43 1.73 1.99 2.01 Exchange rates between local currencies and Pounds Sterling have uctuated over the period.
The most signi cant impact arises from the volatility of the Rand.
The average Rand: Pounds Sterling exchange rate over the year has depreciated by 3.6% and the closing rate has appreciated by 16.0% since 31 March 2008.
The following table provides an analysis of the impact of the Rand depreciation appreciation on our reported numbers.
Results as Currency neutral reported at results at 31 March 2009 31 March 2009 Southern African operating pro t 000 303 769 309 611 Southern African pro t after tax and minorities 000 212 588 217 178 Total group operating pro t before tax 000 400 088 405 930 Total group adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 000 269 195 272 772 Adjusted EPS pence 42.4 43.0 Total assets million 37 105 34 256 Total shareholders equity million 2 621 2 488 Before goodwill and non-operating items For balance sheet items we have assumed that the Rand: Pounds Sterling closing exchange rate has remained neutral since 31 March 2008.
For income statement items we have used the average Rand: Pounds Sterling exchange rate that was applied in the prior period, i. e. 14.31 14 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Financial and business review Business highlights Our operating pro t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities decreased by 22.0% from 508.7 million to 396.8 million.
The following tables set out information on operating pro t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities by geography and by division for the year under review.
For the year to 31 March 2009 000 UK and Southern Australia Total % % of Europe Africa group change total Private Banking 42 034 35 954 2 475 80 463 51.6% 20.3% Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking 12 044 12 058 - 24 102 11.8% 6.1% Capital Markets 78 015 61 150 2 209 141 374 22.3% 35.6% Investment Banking 30 810 66 065 7 089 28 166 61.2% 7.1% Asset Management 17 149 49 037 - 66 186 13.4% 16.7% Property Activities 774 21 769 2 138 24 681 32.0% 6.2% Group Services and Other Activities 18 316 47 395 2 715 31 794 100.0% 8.0% Total group 100 890 293 428 2 448 396 766 22.0% 100.0% Minority interest - equity 3 322 Operating profi t before goodwill 400 088 % change 26.7% 13.5% 92.3% 22.0% % of total 25.4% 74.0% 0.6% 100.0% For the year to 31 March 2008 000 UK and Southern Australia Total % of Europe Africa group total Private Banking 91 619 56 760 18 015 166 394 32.7% Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking 11 929 15 413 - 27 342 5.4% Capital Markets 39 187 68 118 8 326 115 631 22.7% Investment Banking 3 995 64 775 3 756 72 526 14.3% Asset Management 24 940 51 471 - 76 411 15.0% Property Activities 144 36 078 99 36 321 7.1% Group Services and Other Activities 34 205 46 612 1 685 14 092 2.8% Total group 137 609 339 227 31 881 508 717 100.0% Minority interest - equity 28 954 Operating profi t before goodwill 537 671 % of total 27.0% 66.7% 6.3% 100.0% 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 15 Divisional review Integrated global management structure Global roles Chief Executive Of cer - Stephen Koseff Executive Director - Alan Tapnack Managing Director - Bernard Kantor Group Risk and Finance Director - Glynn Burger Geographic business leaders South Africa United Kingdom Australia Andy Leith Bradley Fried David Clarke Glynn Burger David Lawrence Private Banking Steven Heilbron Private Client Stockbroking Henry Blumenthal - SA Capital Markets Support structures David van der Walt Banking and Institutions - David Lawrence Chief Integrating Of cer - Allen Zimbler Corporate Governance, Internal Audit and Compliance - Bradley Tapnack Investment Banking Finance, IT and Operations - Rayanne Jacobson Bradley Fried and Marketing - Raymond van Niekerk Andy Leith Risk Management - Ciaran Whelan Asset Management Share Schemes and Secretarial - Les Penfold Hendrik du Toit Property Activities Sam Hackner Group operating structure Our strategic goals and objectives are motivated by the desire to develop an ef cient and integrated business on an international scale through the active pursuit of clearly established core competencies in our principal business areas.
Our core philosophy has been to build well-fide ned, value-added businesses focused on serving the needs of select market niches where we can compete effectively.
Private Client Capital Markets Investment Asset Property Activities Banking Management Activities Private Banking Specialised Lending Corporate Finance Institutional Fund Management Private Client Structured Derivatives Institutional Research, Retail Listed Funds Portfolio Management Securitisation and Sales and Trading Offshore funds Trading and and Stockbroking Principal Finance Direct Investments Development Specialist funds Private Equity Australia Australia Australia Australia Australia Southern Africa Canada Hong Kong Hong Kong Southern Africa UK and Europe Southern Africa Southern Africa Southern Africa UK and Europe UK and Europe UK and Europe UK and Europe USA USA Group Services and Other Activities Central Services Central Funding International Trade Finance 16 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Divisional business leaders Private Banking Partner of choice from wealth creation to wealth management Strategy Contribution analysis Client-focused approach Provide financial leverage and acumen Operating profi t Employees Adjusted Investment bank for private clients shareholders Deliver distinctive value through partnerships and equity diagnostic approach 100% 100% 100% Concentrate on niche segments 22.0% 34.9% 37.4% Key income drivers Interest earned in connection with the banks lending activities Fees earned for advisory, banking and lending services Income earned in respect of growth and acquisition 78.0% finance activities 65.1% 62.6% Financial highlights and developments 0% 0% 0% Private Banking Higher average advances and a diversi ed set of revenues Remainder of Investec group continued to drive operating income.
Activity levels have declined and impairment losses on loans and advances have increased in all geographies as a result of the weaker credit environment.
Operating pro t - track record Operating income before impairments down 9.0% to 380.9mn Operating pro t down 51.6% to 80.5mn Core loans and advances up 24.3% to 11.1bn Deposit book up 17.0% to 7.7bn mn Funds under advice down 11.2% to 3.3bn 180 Adjusted shareholders equity up 26.0% to 696.7mn 166.4 ROE pre-tax down to 14.8% 160 154.4 Cost to income ratio up to 55.2% 140 Operating pro t per employee down 54.3% to 35.2th 120 Outlook 101.5 100 80.5 Current market conditions continue to have a negative impact 80 on impairments, realisations and activity levels across each of 66.5 the lending specialisations.
60 We expect growth in the combined total loan portfolio to be 45.3 at for the year ahead, and we will continue to re-price 40 29.6 existing assets.
21.5 Substantial investment will continue to be made in our general 20 14.2 10.3 banking business targeting retail deposits.
0 The drive to accelerate the contribution of our Private Wealth Management business will be supported by further 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 investment.
We will continue to focus on realigning costs to future revenues.
Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after Management of impairments and underperforming loans minorities excluding Group Services and Other Activities remains a key focus in all geographies for the forthcoming Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after period.
minorities The business will continue to seek out opportunistic transactions resulting from the fallout in the broader market.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 17 Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking Partner of choice from wealth creation to wealth management We continue to focus on disciplined cost management and Strategy are optimistic that expenses can be controlled without detracting from client service quality levels and the high South Africa calibre staff resources that we employ.
We are con dent that our business strategies and various Our mission is to be the premier South African portfolio managespecialised services are suited to the current environment and ment and stockbroking house.
that our solid position will allow us to capitalise on any distressed opportunities within the industry.
We differentiate ourselves through: The quality of investment professionals we employ and the relationships we build with our clients Contribution analysis A dynamic and focused investment process that provides consistent and superior returns The provision of innovative investment products and services Operating profi t Employees Adjusted Leveraging the outstanding opportunities available to our shareholders clients within the broader Investec group equity 100% 100% 100% UK and Europe 3.6% 0.9% 6.6% We hold a 47.3% interest in Rensburg Sheppards plc Key income drivers 99.1% 96.4% 93.4% Fees levied as a percentage of assets under management Commissions earned for executing transactions for clients Performance fees paid for achieving outperformance against benchmark Financial highlights and 0% 0% 0% developments Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking Remainder of Investec group Operating pro t down 11.8% to 24.1mn Funds under management down 18.3% to 16.3bn Adjusted shareholders equity down 40.5% to 17.6mn ROE pre-tax up to 76.7% Operating pro t - track record Cost to income ratio up to 64.7% Operating pro t per employee down 22.5% to 56.9th mn Outlook 30 27.3 Southern Africa 25 24.1 JSE market volumes are expected to decline year-on-year as 22.1 record investment activity in recent times, which was largely 20 credit induced, starts slowing down in line with a maturing recessionary cycle.
16.6 Ongoing deterioration in international economies and the 15 consequent effects on corporate pro ts should add to 13.8 investor disaffection towards equities notwithstanding good, 11.9 11.1 long-term value currently presented in certain parts of the 10 9.3 market.
Similarly speculative trading activity is expected 8.4 to decrease as volatility subsides and share price inef ciencies gradually diminish, thereby reducing prospective 5 4.4 short-term returns.
We are reasonably con dent that current and future business strategies which focus on alternative commission and 0 brokerage revenue, together with the large annuity fee income stream earned from discretionary assets under management, 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 should help offset reductions in traditional share trading and other non-discretionary brokerage income.
Furthermore, our Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after conservative risk management policies in prior years leaves minorities excluding Group Services and Other Activities us relatively unexposed to the direct effects of the credit Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after market collapse particularly where this relates to trading minorities activity in leveraged derivative instruments Single Stock Excluding income from associates Futures and CFDs and client carry accounts.
18 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Capital Markets Specialist structuring and advisory business Overall we continue to be reasonably well positioned to Strategy weather the storm in conditions that are similar to last year.
Our objectives include: The environment has changed but so too has the competitive Continuing to remain a focused and specialised business, landscape.
A large amount of capacity has been removed targeting markets and products where we can be distinctive from the market and the number of players in our core and competitive geographies has reduced substantially.
This plays to our Through a strong disciplined approach centred on clients and strengths of being a specialist and bespoke service provider.
delivery of structured products, we seek: In the short-term we expect conditions to remain challenging, - Select asset creation opportunities however, we believe that in the medium term this is an - Product structuring and distribution opportunities excellent opportunity to grow market share and deepen our - Trading, hedging and proprietary market opportunities franchise.
- Advisory mandates - Specialist fund opportunities Continuing to concentrate on systems, processes and Contribution analysis automation to ensure maximum competitive advantage and long-term cost savings Key income drivers Operating profi t Employees Adjusted Trading and hedging shareholders Product structuring and distribution equity Asset creation 100% 100% 100% Advisory 18.0% Financial highlights and 38.8% 41.0% developments The advisory, structuring and trading businesses continued to perform well.
The results of the Principal Finance division improved 82.0% substantially as current year write downs on US structured credit investments were signi cantly less than the prior period.
61.2% 59.0% The business of Kensington acquired in August 2007 posted an operating pro t of 37.1mn.
Operating income before impairments up 31.8% to 542.6mn Operating pro t up 22.3% to 141.4mn 0% 0% 0% Core loans and advances up 26.5% to 4.8bn Adjusted shareholders equity up 26.5% to 818.3mn Capital Markets ROE pre-tax down to 18.7% Remainder of Investec group Cost to income ratio down to 45.4% Operating pro t per employee up 2.6% to 130.5th Operating pro t - track record Outlook We remain committed to building a sustainable scale mn business with diversi ed revenue streams.
160 In the UK and South Africa we will continue to strive for depth and greater penetration.
In Australia we continue to look for 141.4 140 opportunities to broaden our franchise.
The current negative cycle is a time to shape the business for 120 117.3 the future and to position ourselves for a return to a more 115.6 normal market.
This stage of the cycle is likely to see a rise in corporate 100 defaults and losses in the acquisition finance portfolio.
Additional effort and resources will be spent on asset 80 management to ensure our portfolios perform optimally in 66.9 poor economic conditions.
60 Looking at the environment in our core geographies: 46.4 - South Africa remains the least affected although the 44.8 44.2 40 impact of the global recession is now starting to be felt.
35.8 32.5 We are generally well positioned in this market with a 20.3 reasonably robust credit portfolio.
Conditions and 20 volumes remain good for the trading businesses.
The effects of the recession may lead to reduced activity in 0 the structuring and lending businesses.
- In the UK and Australia the environment remains weak 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 and it is too early to say if the green shoots represent any sustained change.
We expect impairments to continue, Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after however, trading conditions remain favourable and the minorities excluding Group Services and Other Activities dislocated markets continue to present opportunities.
Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 19 Investment Banking Integrated business focused on local client delivery with international access The majority of the companies in our Private Equity portfolio in Strategy South Africa are trading in line with expectations in very dif cult market conditions and the overall outlook remains Our mission is to be an integrated entrepreneurial investment positive.
The Australian business continues to add value to existing investments and is well placed to take advantage of new Our primary objectives are to secure our current positionings and investment opportunities.
to continue building our operations, with a strong focus on generating a higher level of core sustainable earnings.
Contribution analysis Key income drivers Operating profi t Employees Adjusted shareholders Fees resulting from the provision of capital raising and equity financial advisory work Brokerage commissions 100% 100% 100% 6.4% Trading and market making activities 7.7% 9.5% Sale of investments and revaluation of trading investments.
Dividends Financial highlights and developments 93.6% 92.3% 90.5% Mixed performance across geographies and business activity.
Operating pro t down 61.2% to 28.2mn Operating pro t down 40.3% to 46.5mn Adjusted shareholders equity up 8.4% to 190.7mn ROE pre-tax down to 13.9% 0% 0% 0% Cost to income ratio up to 63.9% Operating pro t per employee down 62.9% to 75.3th Investment Banking Remainder of Investec group Outlook Corporate Finance Operating pro t - track record While market conditions remain uncertain and problematic for transactions, we are well positioned to take advantage of the changing competitive landscape.
The increase in our number mn of corporate clients in the UK, especially in the FTSE 250, is 110 testimony to this.
Black economic empowerment, restructuring and M&A 100.9 100 transactions are expected to continue to drive activity at a 91.2 reasonable level in South Africa.
90 In Australia M&A mandates are scarcer and transactions are 80 taking longer to complete.
However, the strong relationships 72.5 established by the corporate advisory team will provide a 70 solid platform for future growth opportunities when market conditions improve.
60 53.3 49.3 50 44.2 Institutional Research, Sales and 42.6 40 37.7 Trading 30 28.2 20 The UK business has, through ongoing investment, 13.5 substantially strengthened its positioning across sales, trading 10 and research.
The market conditions however, remain dif cult.
The outlook for the South African business remains 0 challenging with the sharp decline in the value of trading -10 activity experienced on the JSE unlikely to reverse in the near term.
Nevertheless, our continued investment in the business, 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 broad revenue base, market share gains and tight cost control, position us well for the next economic upswing.
Direct Investments and Private Equity Agency and Advisory Principal Investments Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after We remain active in seeking direct investment opportunities, minorities excluding Group Services and Other Activities while continuing to unlock further value from the portfolio and Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after the building of black economic empowerment platforms in minorities South Africa.
Excluding investments that are consolidated 20 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Asset Management Investment specialist focused on performance and client needs Strategy Contribution analysis Deliver sound investment performance across all propositions Operating profi t Employees Adjusted Manage our clients money to the highest possible standard shareholders Recognise capacity constraints alpha and service, where equity relevant 100% 100% 100% Remain at the forefront of product innovation 6.0% 15.6% 18.1% Driving diversity worldwide Key income drivers Fees levied as a percentage of assets under management Variable performance fees 94.0% 84.4% 81.9% Other drivers Market levels Net new business 0% 0% 0% Competitive positioning Attraction and retention of talented employees Asset Management Remainder of Investec group Financial highlights and developments Operating pro t - track record The division was impacted by a tougher mutual fund environment and weak equity markets.
The division did bene t from good investment performance and solid net mn in ows, notably from the institutional channel.
80 76.4 Operating pro t down 13.4% to 66.2mn Assets under management at at 28.8bn 70 68.1 66.2 Adjusted shareholders equity down 3.4% to 120.4mn ROE pre-tax down to 41.4% 59.4 60 Cost to income ratio up to 66.9% Operating pro t per employee down 13.4% to 67.8th 50 40 36.3 Outlook 30 Key risks for our business include market levels, key staff 24.6 retention and reputational risk.
19.4 19.1 20 17.7 16.5 We have good sales opportunities based on our breadth of range of investment products and our wide distribution 10 footprint.
0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities excluding Group Services and Other Activities Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 21 Property Activities Leading fund and asset manager, seeking selective trading opportunities asset devaluation in the short-term Strategy Given current market conditions and the age of the fund, the focus is on the growth and development of the assets under Grow funds under management management.
Source development and trading opportunities to create We will continue to look for acquisition opportunities in the value and trade for pro t within agreed risk parameters current market.
Develop global property products Contribution analysis Key income drivers Fees levied as a percentage of assets under management Operating profi t Employees Adjusted Trading and development activities shareholders equity 100% 100% 100% Financial highlights and 1.3% 6.8% 2.4% developments The business earned fees on projects completed in the current year and the investment property portfolio delivered a satisfactory performance.
98.7% 97.6% 93.2% Operating pro t down 32.0% to 24.7mn Adjusted shareholders equity up 64.3% to 48.9mn ROE pre-tax down to 47.5% Cost to income ratio up to 35.2% Operating pro t per employee up 54.7% to 324.8th 0% 0% 0% Outlook Property Activities Remainder of Investec group UK and Europe The ability to raise capital for the newly established UK fund is dif cult in the current market due to the lack of liquidity.
There Operating pro t - track record will be opportunities as the financial crisis unwinds.
The repricing of the UK property market has resulted in the business being able to source potentially attractive real estate for the Investec GLL Global Special Opportunities Real Estate mn Fund.
The distressed UK REIT market and its recent 40 aggressive repricing is also providing potential investment for 36.3 Investec direct and third party investment.
35 South Africa 30 24.7 Property, like all the other sectors in the economy, is 25 susceptible to weakness when the economy experiences a slow down as the underlying tenants become vulnerable to 20 18.6 18.2 the vagaries of the economy.
New developments have been hampered as there has been a 15 14.1 reduction in tenant demand, and many current opportunities are not able to achieve the required rental levels that would 10.1 10 give an acceptable return.
Current sellers of vacant land have 6.1 not adjusted their pricing to re ect the current downturn in the 5.4 5.2 5 market.
3.2 Opportunities to enhance value to existing portfolios remain 0 positive.
The volatility in global markets has resulted in a sharp sell-off 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 in South African property equities.
Markets are expected to start re ecting value which creates opportunities on the back of weakening prices.
Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities excluding Group Services and Other Activities Before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after Australia minorities The Australia REIT mangers are raising equity to replace debt that cannot be re nanced.
The high cost of debt to the property markets suggest further 22 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Group Services and Other Activities Overview and financial analysis 000 31 March 31 March Variance % 2009 2008 change International Trade Finance 7 215 7 258 43 0.6% Central Funding 90 721 80 223 10 498 13.1% Central Services 66 142 73 389 7 247 9.9% Operating profi t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities 31 794 14 092 17 702 100.0% 31 March 2009 UK and Southern Australia Total group 000 Europe Africa International Trade Finance 3 026 4 189 - 7 215 Central Funding 12 514 73 353 4 854 90 721 Central Services 33 856 30 147 2 139 66 142 Operating profi t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities 18 316 47 395 2 715 31 794 31 March 2008 UK and Southern Australia Total group 000 Europe Africa International Trade Finance 3 229 4 029 - 7 258 Central Funding 3 295 72 241 11 277 80 223 Central Services 34 139 29 658 9 592 73 389 Operating profi t before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after minorities 34 205 46 612 1 685 14 092 Developments International Trade Finance Notwithstanding higher interest rates and a volatile exchange rate, the International Trade Finance business continued to add new clients across the board.
Central Services We have a policy of allocating costs housed in the centre that are, in effect, performing a function for the divisions of the group.
There are certain costs that are strategic in nature which have not been allocated for pure segmental disclosure, amounting to 64.1 million 2008: 73.4 million.
However, a portion thereof 53.2 million is allocated to the operating divisions for purposes of determining return on adjusted capital per business segment.
Central costs are lower than the prior year mainly due to a decrease in variable remuneration in line with reduced pro tability.
Central Funding We have a business model of maintaining a central pool of capital with the aim of ensuring that economies of scale with respect to corporate investments, funding and overall management are obtained.
Various sources of funding are employed, the determination of which depends on the speci c financial and strategic requirements the group faces at the time.
The funds raised are applied towards making acquisitions, funding central services and debt obligations, and purchasing corporate assets and investments not allocated to the five operating divisions.
The Central Funding division performed well bene ting from increased cash holdings and higher average interest rates in South Africa.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 23 Financial review Ten year review Salient features For the year ended 31 March 2009 2008 2007 2006 Income statement and selected returns Adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill and non-operating items 000 269 215 344 695 300 704 230 017 Operating pro t before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation 000 396 766 508 717 466 585 388 767 Operating pro t: Southern Africa % of total 74.0% 66.7% 57.6% 68.3% Operating pro t: UK, Europe, Australia and Other % of total 26.0% 33.3% 42.4% 31.7% Cost to income ratio 55.9% 56.1% 59.0% 58.7% Staff compensation to operating income ratio 34.9% 37.2% 40.9% 40.1% Return on average adjusted shareholders equity 14.8% 23.6% 26.1% 25.5% Net interest income as a percentage of operating income 46.6% 39.3% 29.2% 26.8% Non-interest income as a percentage of operating income 53.4% 60.7% 70.8% 73.2% Effective operational taxation rate 21.1% 22.6% 26.3% 27.3% Balance sheet Total capital resources including subordinated liabilities million 3 762 3 275 2 665 2 042 Total shareholders equity including preference shares and minority interests million 2 621 2 210 1 820 1 512 Total assets million 37 105 34 104 26 300 23 901 Core loans and advances million 16 227 12 854 10 095 9 605 Core loans and advances as a percentage of total assets 43.7% 37.7% 38.4% 40.2% Third party assets under management million 48 828 52 749 56 121 56 331 Capital adequacy ratio: Investec plc 16.2% 15.3% 24.7% 17.7% Capital adequacy ratio: Investec Limited 14.2% 13.9% 14.7% 16.3% Salient fi financial features and key statistics Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items pence # 42.4 56.9 53.3 41.9 Basic earnings per share pence # 38.5 57.7 54.7 53.8 Diluted earnings per share pence # 36.1 54.0 50.4 50.0 Dividends per share pence # 13.0 25.0 23.0 18.2 Dividend cover times 3.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Net tangible asset value per share pence # 266.3 215.0 178.6 148.9 Weighted number of ordinary shares in issue million # 634.6 606.2 563.8 548.8 Total number of shares in issue million # 713.2 657.6 609.3 593.0 Closing share price pence # 292 339 658 588 Market capitalisation million 2 083 2 229 4 009 3 488 Number of employees in the group 5 951 6 333 5 430 4 453 Average ZAR exchange rate 14.83 14.31 13.38 11.43 The numbers prior to 2005 are reported in terms of UK GAAP, and thereafter in terms of IFRS Calculation not comparable The information for 2008 and 2009 is in terms of Basel II and prior to that in terms of Basel I The dividend for 2000 and 2001 was set in Rand and the dividend thereafter was determined in Pounds Sterling.
A non-operating exceptional gain of 72.9 million pre-taxation was made on the sale of this business.
The purchase consideration was satis ed by the issue of new Growthpoint linked units.
Furthermore, as announced on 6 November 2007, Investec disposed of 152 473 544 Growthpoint linked units representing its entire shareholding in Growthpoint, inter alia, monetising the proceeds on the disposal of the property fund management and property administration business.
Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien Pty Ltd Experien as of 1 October 2007.
Investec plc acquired Kensington Group plc Kensington with effect from 8 August 2007.
The business was acquired for 216.3 million, via the issue of 36.8 million Investec plc shares, with a net asset value at date of acquisition of 100.2 million after a special dividend of 13.7 million.
Kensington now forms part of the Capital Markets business in the UK.
Income statement analysis The overview that follows will highlight the main reasons for the variance in the major category line items on the face of the income statement during the year under review.
Total operating income Total operating income net of insurance claims of 1 490 million is in line with the prior year.
The various components of total operating income are analysed below.
000 31 March % of total 31 March % of total % 2009 income 2008 income change Net interest income 694 031 46.6% 583 420 39.3% 19.0% Other income 795 490 53.4% 900 266 60.7% 11.6% Net fee and commission income 531 522 35.7% 551 296 37.2% 3.6% Principal transactions 276 521 18.6% 276 705 18.6% 0.1% Operating income from associates 12 438 0.8% 12 138 0.8% 2.5% Net income on Assurance Activities 5 249 0.4% 10 084 0.7% 47.9% Other operating loss income 30 240 2.1% 50 043 3.4% 100.0% Total operating income net of insurance claims 1 489 521 100.0% 1 483 686 100.0% 0.4% Net interest income Net interest income increased by 19.0% to 694 million 2008: 583.4 million as a result of growth in average advances, the acquisitions of Kensington and Experien, and a solid performance from the Central Funding division.
000 31 March 31 March Variance % 2009 2008 change Private Banking 274 236 272 666 1 570 0.6% Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking 2 051 76 1 975 100.0% Capital Markets 286 712 227 174 59 538 26.2% Investment Banking 2 612 8 463 11 075 100.0% Asset Management 7 821 7 558 263 3.5% Property Activities 6 886 10 513 3 627 34.5% Group Services and Other Activities 127 485 94 922 32 563 34.3% Net interest income 694 031 583 420 110 611 19.0% 26 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Financial statement analysis Net fee and commission income Net fee and commission income decreased by 3.6% to 531.5 million 2008: 551.3 million.
Transactional activity and asset levels have been signi cantly impacted by the economic environment.
However, the group bene ted from a solid performance from the Capital Markets advisory and structuring businesses.
000 31 March 31 March Variance % 2009 2008 change Private Banking 97 959 111 109 13 150 11.8% Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking 32 100 36 564 4 464 12.2% Capital Markets 115 465 86 831 28 634 33.0% Investment Banking 69 041 88 603 19 562 22.1% Asset Management 197 732 207 483 9 751 4.7% Property Activities 22 724 20 764 1 960 9.4% Group Services and Other Activities 3 499 58 3 441 100.0% Net fee and commission income 531 522 551 296 19 774 3.6% Principal transactions Income from principal transactions remained in line with the prior year at 276.5 million 2008: 276.7 million re ecting a strong contribution from our Capital Markets trading businesses and an improved performance from our Principal Finance businesses.
This was offset by a reduced pro t from revaluations and realisations in the current year.
000 31 March 31 March Variance % 2009 2008 change Private Banking 7 823 34 667 26 844 77.4% Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking 42 1 205 1 163 96.5% Capital Markets 140 462 97 998 42 464 43.3% Investment Banking 91 159 79 583 11 576 14.5% Asset Management 30 56 86 100.0% Property Activities 22 539 45 275 22 736 50.2% Group Services and Other Activities 14 526 17 921 3 395 18.9% Principal transactions 276 521 276 705 184 0.1% Operating income from associates Operating income from associates increased by 2.5% to 12.4 million 2008: 12.1 million.
The gure includes Investecs 47.3% share of the directors estimate of the post-taxation pro t of Rensburg Sheppards plc for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Other operating loss The consolidation of the operating results of certain investments held within the groups Private Equity portfolio resulted in an operating loss of 30.2 million 2008: income of 50 million.
Impairment losses on loans and advances As a result of the weaker credit cycle we have seen a decline in the performance of the loan portfolio resulting in an increase in impairment losses on loans and advances from 58.8 million to 162.9 million excluding Kensington.
The credit loss charge as a percentage of average gross core loans and advances has increased from 0.5% to 1.1% since 31 March 2008.
The percentage of default loans net of impairments but before taking collateral into account to core loans and advances has increased from 1.3% to 3.3% since 31 March 2008.
The ratio of collateral to default loans net of impairments remains satisfactory at 1.20 times 2008: 1.21 times.
Impairment losses on loans and advances relating to the Kensington business amount to 93.2 million 2008: 55.4 million.
The total Kensington book has been managed down to 5.2 billion from 6.1 billion at 31 March 2008.
Arrears have increased as the book seasons in a weak environment.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 27 Financial statement analysis Total expenses The ratio of total operating expenses to total operating income improved to 55.9% from 56.1%.
Total expenses increased by 0.2% to 833.3 million 2008: 831.8 million.
Variable remuneration decreased by 29.9% to 144.8 million.
Other operating expenses increased by 10.2% to 688.5 million largely as a result of the acquisitions of Kensington and Experien and an increase in average headcount and associated costs in certain of the businesses.
Total headcount is being tightly managed and expense growth excluding variable remuneration is targeted below the respective in ation rates in each of the groups core geographies.
The group has also introduced a non-cash deferred component to variable remuneration payments.
Taxation The effective operational taxation rate of the group decreased from 22.6% to 21.1% as a result of the decrease in taxation rates in key geographies and an increase in income earned that is subject to lower taxation rates or is non-taxable.
Losses attributable to minority interests Losses attributable to minority interests of 5.4 million largely comprise: 30.9 million relating to investments consolidated in the Private Equity division: offset by 25.8 million relating to Euro denominated preferred securities issued by a subsidiary of Investec plc which are re ected on the balance sheet as part of minority interests.
The transaction is hedged and a forex transaction pro t arising on the hedge is re ected in operating pro t before goodwill with the equal and opposite impact re ected in earnings attributable to minorities.
Earnings attributable to shareholders As a result of the foregoing factors, earnings attributable to shareholders decreased from 391.6 million to 292.0 million.
Dividends and earnings per share Information with respect to dividends and earnings per share is provided on page 111 and pages 131 to 134.
Balance sheet analysis Since 31 March 2008: Total shareholders equity including minority interests increased by 18.6% to 2.6 billion largely as a result of retained earnings and foreign currency translation gains.
Net asset value per share increased from 260.6 pence to 308.8 pence and net tangible asset value per share which excludes goodwill and intangible assets increased from 215.0 pence to 266.3 pence.
Total assets increased from 34.1 billion to 37.1 billion largely as a result of foreign currency adjustments.
The return on adjusted average shareholders equity decreased from 23.6% to 14.8%.
The compulsorily convertible debentures that were outstanding at 31 March 2008 were converted to shares on 31 July 2008.
This resulted in an increase in share capital and share premium with no impact on total equity.
28 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Operating fi financial review Risk and governance Risk management Philosophy and approach The group recognises that an effective risk management function is fundamental to its business.
Taking international best practice into account, our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in all our day-to-day activities.
Group Risk Management part of Group Services is independent from the business units and monitors, manages and reports on our risk to ensure it is within the stated appetite as mandated by the board of directors through the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Business units are ultimately responsible for managing risks that arise.
We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward pro le, helping us to pursue controlled growth across our business.
Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the UK, South Africa, Australia and smaller risk divisions in other regions to promote sound risk management practices.
Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our fide ned risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to enhance its techniques.
Group Risk Managements objectives Group Risk Managements objectives are to: Be the custodian of our risk management culture To ensure the business operates within the board stated appetite Set, approve and monitor adherence to risk parameters and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented and adhered to consistently Aggregate and monitor our exposure across risk classes Co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions Give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks we are exposed to are identi ed and, to the best extent possible, managed and controlled Run appropriate risk committees, as mandated by the board.
Executive summary of the year in review from a risk perspective As mentioned in the beginning of this report refer to pages 2 to 6 Investec has maintained a sound balance sheet with low leverage and a diversi ed business model which has enabled it to navigate through the present challenging operating environment.
This has been supported by the following key operating fundamentals: Intimate involvement of senior management ensuring stringent management of risk, liquidity and capital.
Strong risk and capital management culture: embedded into our day-to-day activities and values.
We seek to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward in our business, taking cognisance of all stakeholders interests.
Reward programmes that align directors and employees interests with those of stakeholders, ensuring that these programmes promote effective risk management.
Annual bonuses are closely linked to business performance, determined in the main by realised Economic Value Added pro t performance against pre-determined targets above a risk and capital weighted return.
This model has been consistently applied for in excess of ten years.
Credit and counterparty exposures to a select target market: our risk appetite continues to favour lower risk, income-based lending, with credit risk taken over a short to medium term.
Exposure is taken against fide ned target clients displaying a pro le of good character, sound financial strength and integrity, a core competency and a sound track record in the activity funded.
We have, however, experienced an increase in impairments and defaults as a result of weak economic conditions.
The credit loss ratio has increased to 1.1% of core loans and advances, in line with our expectations.
Limited exposure to rated and unrated structured credit investments: representing less than 2% of total assets.
A low leverage ratio of approximately 12 times.
A low level of net assets and liabilities exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting: with level 3 assets amounting to 1% of total assets.
Low equity investment risk exposure: within total investments comprising less than 3% of total assets.
Modest proprietary market risk within our trading portfolio: value at risk and stress testing scenarios remain at prudent levels.
Potential losses that could arise in our trading book portfolio stress tested under extreme market conditions 15 standard deviations amount to less than 1% of total operating income.
32 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk management A high level of readily available, high quality liquid assets: average cash and near cash of approximately 5 billion, representing 20% to 30% of our liability base.
We continue to maintain a low reliance on interbank wholesale funding to fund core lending asset growth.
An increase in retail customer deposits and access to longer term funding initiatives.
Healthy capital ratios: we have always held capital in excess of regulatory requirements and we intend to perpetuate this philosophy.
We have strengthened our capital base and increased our net tangible asset value during the period.
Geographical and operational diversity with a high level of recurring income which continues to support sustainability of operating pro t, albeit at a lower level.
The global financial market crisis has resulted in increasing risk levels and has impacted the markets in which we operate on a number of fronts.
Our overall risk management philosophies, practices and frameworks have remained largely unchanged, and have held us in good stead over the period.
Maintaining credit quality, moderating loan growth, strictly managing risk and liquidity and continuing to grow our capital base remain strategic imperatives for the year ahead.
An overview of key risks In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks are summarised brie y below.
Key risks Credit and counterparty risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by our clients Liquidity risk may impair our ability to fund our operations Our net interest earnings and net asset value may be adversely affected by interest rate risk Market, business and general economic conditions and uctuations could adversely affect our businesses in a number of ways We may be unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel Employee misconduct could cause harm that is dif cult to detect Operational risk may disrupt our business or result in regulatory action We are exposed to non-traded currency risk, where uctuations in exchange rates against Pounds Sterling, could have an impact on our financial results We may be vulnerable to the failure of our systems and breaches of our security systems We may have insuf cient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional nancing when it is required The financial services industry in which we operate is intensely competitive Legal and regulatory risks are substantial in our businesses Reputational, strategic and business risk We may be exposed to pension risk in our UK operations Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also impair our business operations.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
A diagram of our governance and risk framework is provided on page 66.
This section provides an overview of risks and related developments that occurred during the year under review.
Further detail on our risk management framework, committees and forums as well as our risk management and measurement techniques can be found in the Investec groups 2009 Annual Report.
Note: In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC Board Risk and Capital Committee ERRF Executive Risk Review Forum FSA Financial Services Authority SARB South African Reserve Bank APRA Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 33 Risk management Key markets indicators The table below provides on overview of some key statistics that should be considered when reviewing the developments within each area of risk.
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Average over period end period end the period Market indicators FTSE all share 1 984 2 927 2 486 JSE all share 20 364 29 588 24 734 Australia all ords 3 532 5 410 4 491 S&P 500 798 1 323 1 090 Nikkei 8 110 12 526 10 866 Dow Jones 7 609 12 263 10 136 Exchange rates Rand Pounds Sterling 13.58 16.17 14.83 Rand Dollar 9.51 8.09 8.80 US Dollar Euro 1.33 1.58 1.42 Euro Pounds Sterling 1.08 1.25 1.21 Australian Dollar Pounds Sterling 2.07 2.18 2.19 US Dollar Pounds Sterling 1.43 1.99 1.73 Rates UK overnight 0.63% 5.55% 3.49% UK 10 year 3.17% 4.34% 4.22% UK Clearing Banks Base Rate 0.57% 5.25% 3.74% LIBOR - 3 month 1.65% 6.01% 4.63% SA R153 2010 6.88% 9.71% 9.18% SA R157 2015 8.18% 9.22% 8.87% Rand overnight 9.16% 10.60% 11.23% SA prime overdraft rate 13.00% 14.50% 15.06% JIBAR - 3 month 8.80% 11.38% 11.63% Reserve Bank of Australia cash target rate 3.25% 7.25% 5.84% US 10 year 2.67% 3.41% 3.41% Commodities Gold USD919 oz USD917 oz USD869 oz Gas Oil Futures USD420 mt USD969 mt USD812 mt Platinum USD1 129 oz USD1 966 oz USD1 371 oz Macro-economic UK GDP % change over the period 1.0% 2.90% n c UK per capita GDP 23 496 22 712 South Africa GDP % real growth over the calendar year 3.10% 5.10% n c South Africa per capita GDP real value R 25 897 25 499 Australia GDP % change over the period 1.6% 4.20% n c Australia per capita GDP AUD 55 260 51 985 Source: Datastream, Bloombergs, Of ce for National Statistics, SARB Quarterly Bulletin, Australian Bureau of Statistics 34 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk management Credit and counterparty risk management Credit and counterparty risk description Credit and counterparty risk is fide ned as the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from an obligors typically a clients or counterpartys failure to meet the terms of any obligation to us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
Credit and counterparty risk arises when funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether re ected on or off balance sheet.
Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily from three types of transactions: Lending transactions, giving rise to a direct exposure.
The risk is created that an obligor will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and or interest on advances and loans granted to it.
This category includes bank placements, where we have placed funds with other financial institutions: Issuer risk on financial instruments where payments due from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received: and Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk collectively counterparty risk.
- Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with one party effecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which they are entitled.
- Replacement risk is the risk following default by the original counterparty resulting in the contract holder having to enter into a replacement contract with a second counterparty in order to nalise the transaction.
Credit and counterparty risk can manifest as country risk as a result of the geopolitical and transfer risk associated with exposures arising from transactions with borrowers who are resident in a particular foreign country, or dependent on that countrys economy.
Credit and counterparty risk may also arise in other ways and it is the role of the various independent credit committees, assisted by Credit Risk Management, to identify situations falling outside these fide nitions where credit risk may also be present.
Credit and counterparty risk year in review UK and Europe The year in review has seen large market volatilities caused by the global financial market crisis and the subsequent economic downturn.
Through prudent risk management, exposures to large well published, distressed, bankrupted and failed counterparties have been avoided or losses substantially minimised.
The worsening economy has made it more dif cult to refinance or sell assets due to reduced liquidity and vastly lower asset prices in the market for all asset classes, in particular property, equities and commodities.
Many traditional purchasers of assets either have not been able to raise funding to acquire new assets, or believe that assets will continue to cheapen and are cautious in their approach to new acquisitions.
The slowdown has affected most asset classes and we have seen both property and corporate lending being negatively impacted particularly from diminishing asset values.
Core loans and advances increased by 13.1% to 6.0 billion, primarily as a result of currency uctuations rather than increased lending activity.
Approximately 20% of the book is denominated in Euro which has strengthened against Pounds Sterling in the year under review.
Default loans net of impairments have increased from 2.3% to 3.6% of core loans and advances, but remain within tolerable levels.
The credit loss ratio has increased from 0.5% to 1.6%.
All accounts are proactively managed and customers have demonstrated ability to service loans where assets have not been sold.
The relatively low interest rate environment has enabled clients to bear the fairly low interest burden attached to their debt for longer periods.
Holding assets for longer periods has thus allowed customers to avoid forced sale scenarios which may have exacerbated already depressed asset values.
The performance of all accounts is regularly reviewed by the independent credit function and impairments taken as necessary.
As a risk management strategy, prudent account management is formulised over asset growth.
Within our Capital Markets division we have experienced increased defaults in our Acquisition Finance, Resource Finance and small ticket leasing businesses.
Acquisition Finance: counterparties in the automotive, construction and leisure sectors in particular have experienced severe cash ow pressures.
Our exposures are all senior secured facilities.
We expect further dif culties to be experienced in this book as consumer facing counterparties cash ows weaken.
Resource Finance: juniorto mid-cap mining operators have suffered from the collapse in commodity prices and the drying up of equity finance.
We are in active negotiations regarding the re nancing of several of our larger facilities.
We expect to receive repayment on a signi cant proportion of our book over the next few months.
Activity in the Private Banking business diminished signi cantly in the second half of the financial year.
The business unit members as well as members of the Group Risk division have proactively assessed the entire loan book to ascertain where the bank may be exposed to increased risk.
Where customers have experienced financial dif culty we have worked with them to arrive at an optimal solution including change of use for certain property related transactions and extensions of time for properties that are servicing their debt obligations.
Where private clients have supported a transaction by way of personal guarantees, and the original exit was through the sale of assets and such sale would severely diminish the pro tability of a project, we may agree an extension of term to achieve an orderly exit.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 35 Risk management The Kensington mortgage book continues to perform within expectations taking into account the economic landscape.
We retain residual net exposures amounting to 516 million to the assets originated, warehoused and securitised by Kensington.
The Group Risk division will continue to work closely with the business units over the course of the next financial year to manage the risks in the lending portfolios.
The focus will be on active book management whilst scanning the market for opportunities that present themselves.
Southern Africa The past financial year has seen a number of trends and factors impacting on the credit quality and assessment of credit and counterparty risk: The global financial crisis had a negative impact on the domestic economic cycle, especially in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009.
Liquidity constraints and general tightening in liquidity across the industry.
Conservative lending approach from the banking sector and the effects of repricing.
A high interest rate environment with consumers reducing discretionary spending.
High in ation numbers which delayed the central bank in reducing the repurchase rate.
High levels of rand volatility against major trading currencies Euro, US Dollar and Pounds Sterling.
Market volatility with the main exchange JSE re ecting a reduction of 31.1% on a year on year basis.
Collapse in commodity prices and continued volatility.
Low or negative growth in the residential and commercial property markets.
The South African property market has been under pressure for the year in review.
We are conscious of the effect of the slowdown of growth in the property market both global and local and the slowing economic cycle that have put pressure on our property portfolios.
The high net worth and or stable income streams of our target market clients provides a level of protection from decreases in property values.
Over the past few years as property values increased, many clients built an effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios which have reduced potential losses on depreciation of values.
As at 31 March 2009 the average loan to value ratio within the property development portfolio stood at 52% based on net sell out values.
An increase in client ow, together with greater hedging activity due to higher levels of volatility, has resulted in increased pro tability and exposure in the Treasury Foreign Exchange business.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange rate products simulation methodologies are employed which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
The methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure pro les and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
Loans and advances secured by share portfolios including BEE transactions are monitored frequently due to market volatility.
Most of these counterparties remain within credit approved loan to value or cover ratios and are performing on current debt obligations.
For assets written during the current year there has been strict adherence to lower loan to value lending and increased pricing requirements.
Credit quality on gross core loans and advances deteriorated throughout the year under review notably from September 2008, with the majority of impairments raised in the Private Bank division, distributed between the residential and commercial property portfolios which are made up of a relatively small number of clients.
Investec Capital Markets reported 3 material defaults in Specialised Finance and Resource Finance respectively, which were impaired accordingly.
Investec Bank Mauritius reported 1 material default as at year end.
Core loans and advances portfolio increased by 16.3% to R120.4 billion.
The quality of the overall loans and advances portfolio in Southern Africa deteriorated as a result of the global financial crisis with default loans net of impairments as a percentage of core loans and advances increasing from 0.7% to 2.2%.
The credit loss ratio has increased from 0.5% to 0.7% Due to the deteriorating asset quality a lot of emphasis has been placed on the strengthening of recoveries and administrative areas and increased involvement from executive and senior management to deal with potential problematic loans and working on the best outcome solution for our clients and ourselves.
Australia During the year core loans and advances to customers increased by 13.2% to AUD2.9 billion, predominantly through selective growth within the professional finance business unit: which provides finance to targeted members of the medical and accounting professions.
There has been deterioration in credit quality throughout the year under review.
Defaults net of impairments have risen to 9.6% of core loans and advances and the credit loss ratio has increased from 0.7% to 1.7%.
A continued focus on asset quality remains fundamental to our approach to the challenging credit environment.
We believe that these adjustments are necessary in order to derive a value that re ects actual core lending activities.
In this regard the following methodology has been applied: Loans and advances which have been originated by us and securitised primarily to provide an alternative source of funding are added to loans and advances.
Warehouse funding facilities and warehouse assets arising out of our securitisation and principal finance activities have been deducted.
In addition, as a result of our local market knowledge and investment banking expertise, we are well positioned to take direct positions in listed shares where we believe that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
These investment positions are carefully researched with the intent to stimulate corporate activity.
In South Africa, we also continue to pursue opportunities to help create and grow black owned and controlled companies.
Lending transactions within the Private Banking and Capital Markets divisions : The manner in which we structure certain transactions results in equity, warrant and pro t shares being held, predominantly within unlisted companies.
Property Activities: We source development, investment and trading opportunities to create value and trade for pro t within agreed risk parameters.
Central Funding: In South Africa the Central Funding division is the custodian of certain equity and property investments, which have largely arisen from corporate acquisitions made, notably in the early 2000s.
Valuation The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Revaluations that are posted directly to equity are excluded from capital within Investec Limited and included in Tier 2 capital within Investec plc.
Post funding costs 42 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk management Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
Country category On balance Valuation On balance Valuation 000 sheet value of change sheet value of change investments stress test investments stress test 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2009 2009 2008 2008 Unlisted investments 490 982 73 647 365 189 54 778 UK and Europe 120 689 18 103 120 872 18 131 South Africa 350 364 52 555 225 249 33 787 Australia 19 929 2 989 19 068 2 860 Listed equities 115 793 27 628 96 711 24 193 UK and Europe 37 060 7 945 40 359 10 090 South Africa 77 558 19 389 54 520 13 630 Australia 1 175 294 1 892 473 Investment and trading properties 228 884 27 082 174 091 8 787 UK and Europe 8 480 1 696 - - South Africa 220 404 25 386 174 091 8 787 Warrants, profi t shares and other embedded derivatives 103 199 36 120 65 640 22 974 UK and Europe 63 463 22 212 41 879 14 658 South Africa 38 866 13 603 23 761 8 316 Australia 870 305 - - Total 938 858 164 477 701 691 110 732 In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters are applied Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, pro t shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information above we could have a 164 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a worst case scenario.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a signi cantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Traded market risk management Traded market risk description Traded market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The Market Risk Management team identi es, quanti es and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is primarily on supporting client activity.
Our strategic intent is that proprietary trading should be limited and that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 43 Risk management VaR UK and Europe Australia South Africa 95% one-day 99% one-day 95% one-day 000 AUD000 Rmn 31 March 2009 Commodities 42 - 0.3 Equity derivatives 629 - 2.8 Foreign exchange 25 14 2.9 Interest rates 759 52 0.9 Consolidated 996 66 4.1 High 2 497 307 15.3 Low 341 60 2.1 Average 738 139 4.5 31 March 2008 Commodities 93 - 0.4 Equity derivatives 275 - 4.0 Foreign exchange 23 34 1.8 Interest rates 397 343 0.4 Consolidated 434 374 3.8 High 951 374 10.8 Low 130 59 1.9 Average 385 178 6.2 The consolidated VaR for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes The graphs below show total daily VaR and pro t and loss gures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
The values are for the 99% one-day VaR, i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR gures.
This exceeds the exceptions at the 99% level.
Most of these exceptions were marginal and arose due to signi cant volatility on the Fixed Income desk.
The largest variance was due to an extreme rise in the implied volatility in Euribor rates at the beginning of October 2008.
These exceptions were mainly due to the sudden increased volatility in the interest rate and foreign exchange markets in the middle of 2008.
Both exceptions were marginal and in line with the 99% con dence interval expectations.
The largest exceptions arose in the beginning of October 2008.
The breach on 3 October 2008 was caused by a combination of a large parallel decrease in AUD interest rates, a large parallel increase in gold lease rates and a depreciation in the AUD exchange rate.
The breach on 7 October 2008 was caused by a large parallel decrease in AUD interest rates and a depreciation in the AUD exchange rate.
15 standard deviations UK and Europe Australia South Africa using VaR using VaR using VaR 000 AUD000 Rmn 31 March 2009 Commodities 324 - 2.3 Equity derivatives 4 812 - 21.7 Foreign exchange 193 81 22.1 Interest rates 5 812 302 7.2 Consolidated 11 141 383 53.3 31 March 2008 Commodities 712 - 3.1 Equity derivatives 2 105 - 30.6 Foreign exchange 176 200 13.8 Interest rates 3 038 1 995 3.1 Consolidated 6 031 2 195 50.6 46 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk management Pro t and loss histograms UK and Europe The histogram below illustrates the distribution of daily revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the pro t side and the graph shows that trading revenue was realised on 166 days out of a total of 255 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2009 was 244 000.
The distribution is skewed to the pro t side and the graph shows that trading revenue was realised on 191 days out of a total of 258 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2009 was R2.5 million.
45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 -10.0 -9.0 -8.0 -7.0 -6.0 -5.0 -4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 10.0 Proft and loss Rmn 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 47 Frequency: Days in a year Frequency: Days in a year Risk management Australia The histogram below illustrates the distribution of daily revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is more normally distributed, the graph shows that trading revenue was realised on 160 days out of a total of 252 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2009 was AUD5 thousand.
Investecs South African model of basing trades on client ow has once again proved to be successful as all trading desks have, to a varying degree, been pro table.
In the UK the Structured Equity desk has experienced strong growth in their retail product sales and they continue to expand their product range.
The Fixed Income and Forex desks have also performed well bene ting from both the increased volatility and ows.
Australian trading activity remains modest, with the focus being mainly commodity hedging.
The majority of revenue earned from our trading activities within the Capital Markets division is related to client ow activity.
Revenue from trading activities within our Capital Markets division mn 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 March 2009 March 2008 UK and Europe South Africa Australia Total 48 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Frequency: Days in a year Risk management Balance sheet risk management Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the independent monitoring and prudential management of the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Non-trading interest rate risk description Non-trading interest rate risk is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of increases or decreases in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of banking-related risk exposures include potential adverse effect of volatility and changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
The mix of interest rate repricing characteristics is in uenced by the underlying financial needs of customers.
Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
The tables below re ect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention, i. e. the numbers represent the change in our net asset value should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
UK and Europe million Sensitivity to the following interest rates All expressed in original currencies GBP USD EUR Other GBP GBP 200bp down 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.2 200bp up 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.2 South Africa million Sensitivity to the following interest rates All expressed in original currencies ZAR GBP USD AUD ZAR 200bp down 12.7 0.1 0.2 0.2 9.5 200bp up 13.9 0.3 0.1 0.1 10.2 Australia million AUD 200bp down 1.9 200bp up 1.9 Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk is the risk that we have insuf cient capacity to fund increases in assets, or are unable to meet our payment obligations as they fall due, including repaying depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-speci c and market-wide events.
Risk management has become more sophisticated with liquidity risk being no exception and we consider both funding liquidity risk and market liquidity risk.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
The tables re ect that loans and advances to customers are largely nanced by stable funding sources.
With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made, and we record all asset and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash ow pro le for each deal.
As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered cash, government, or bank paper typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash ows.
The actual contractual pro le of this asset class is of little consequence, as practically Investec would meet any unexpected net cash out ows by selling these securities.
We have: - Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of available for sale discretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class.
- Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank.
- Reported the contractual pro le by way of a note to the tables.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 51 Risk management With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
To this end, behavioural pro ling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash ows vary signi cantly from contractual maturity.
An internal analysis model is used, based on statistical research of the historical series of products, which models the point of probable maturity.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with pro le and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
Longer term liquidity all but dried up even for AAA names.
In the UK, the government was forced to take action to inject liquidity back into financial markets and restore con dence through various schemes including: A 50 billion Credit Guarantee Scheme in October 2008.
This is the scheme to which Investec Bank plc is eligible to participate.
A government auction buy-back of gilts of 75 billion which is ongoing to provide liquidity to the markets.
Nationalisation of Northern Rock and Bradford & Bingley and taking direct stakes in Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB.
Injecting up to 500 billion of tax payers money by way of an Asset Protection Scheme.
The Bank of England asset purchase facility to assist in compressing spreads and improving liquidity in corporate bonds.
Investec Bank plc has bene ted in these troubled times as retail investors looked to diversify their savings across different institutions.
Investec Bank plc saw good in ows into its retail savings products and Structured Equity Derivatives offerings over the latter half of the year.
Despite the relatively sound economic position that Australia held at the commencement of the global financial crisis and the rapid action by the RBA and the Federal Government, the Australian economy has still been negatively impacted by the severity of deterioration in the global economic conditions.
In October 2008 the Australian government announced a Government Guarantee Scheme the Scheme for deposit and wholesale funding.
The Scheme guarantees bank deposits up to AUD1 million for a period up to 12 October 2011, while large deposits and non-deposit debt may be guaranteed for period of up to 60 months through the payment 54 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk management of a fee.
Subsequent to the announcement of the Scheme, Investec Bank Australia Ltds IBAL experienced major in ows of private client funds resulting in record levels being achieved.
IBALs activity in increasing funding through both the Private Bank and wholesale funding bases has been utilised to further increase an already strong liquidity position and to lengthen the average maturity pro le of liabilities well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements.
The South African interest rate environment was exceptionally volatile and eventful during the financial year ended 31 March 2009.
The second quarter however, brought a major change in interest rate expectations as the fide ationary risks of the burgeoning crisis in global financial markets became apparent.
This made for exceptionally good trading conditions for the Capital Markets trading teams.
However, liquidity conditions worsened over the financial year, particularly after the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Fortunately South African banks were largely shielded from the worst of the fall-out.
However, the cost of term deposits continued to rise re ecting higher credit risk spreads, fortunately partly offset by signi cant increases in rates on new loans written by the bank.
We concluded a USD450 million two year syndicated loan rollover in October 2008 which buttressed our liquidity.
However, a combination of asset growth, a slowdown in securitisation and slower liability growth resulted in a decrease in the amounts of surplus liquidity available on the South African balance sheet.
We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity above internal and external liquidity targets.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity pro le.
Investec Bank plc: - e280 million Club Deal completed in April 2008 for one year at Libor 45bps.
- A total of 570 million bilateral facilities were arranged through long-standing historical relationships maintained with other banks throughout the course of the year.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL : - During July 2008 IBAL undertook an inaugural dual currency syndicated debt facility raising USD80 million and e43 million with a one year term and with 13 European and North American financial institutions participating.
- During December 2008 IBAL modi ed its Debt Issuance Programme to allow it to undertake debt issuance in compliance with the Government Guarantee Scheme, and in February 2009 IBAL undertook two domestic term debt issues in Government Guaranteed format for a total raising of AUD600 million.
The first issue was for an amount of AUD400 million and a term of 3 years, the second issue, undertaken a few weeks subsequent to the first, was for an amount of AUD200 million in a xed rate structure, with a term of 5 years.
Operational risk management Operational risk description Operational risk is fide ned as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from failed or inadequate internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a signi cant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of sound operational risk management practices.
We have adopted the Standardised Approach to calculate operational risk regulatory capital.
Developments In the year under review the group was subject to regulatory onsite reviews by the SARB, the FSA and the Bank of Mauritius.
We participated in the international Loss Data Collection exercise.
This assisted in con rming and re ning loss data collection standards and practices.
As a result of the current financial crisis and the lessons learnt from this, we strive to continuously strengthen our operational risk environment by regularly evaluating the risk assessments and control framework and updating them in line with developments in the market and emerging exposures.
Areas of focus: Business continuity capability rigorous and ongoing simulations and readiness evaluation.
Awareness and understanding of financial crime.
Developments in this area are monitored through participation in the industry fora.
Enhancements to the IT Risk Assessment Framework which incorporates the Information Security Framework.
The re nement of the operational risk measurement methodologies through scenario analysis.
Key operational risk indicators that are relevant have been considered and remain an ongoing development area.
Improvement of the quality of operational risk management data.
Introduction of a new risk and causal analysis approach to enable us to further analyse internal and external risk events.
Improvements to the reporting framework.
Continued enhancements based on industry practice.
Our processes provide for continuous development and monitoring to ensure that the framework and practices remain relevant and are appropriate and adequate and in line with leading industry practices including regulatory requirements.
Embedding operational risk management awareness and practices in our business remains an ongoing activity.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 55 Risk management Reputational risk Reputational risk is caused by damage to our reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may result from a breakdown of trust, con dence or business relationships.
Reputational risk may also arise as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and con dence in the organisation.
Our policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Corporate governance structures and processes in operation throughout the group assist in mitigating this risk.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each signi cant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the Global Head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive Of cer of each legal entity.
Pension risk Pension risk arises from fide ned bene t schemes, where Investec plc is expected to provide funds to reduce any fide cit in the schemes.
There are two fide ned bene t schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk could arise if the net present value of future cash out ows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary causes of any fide cit include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities, Market-driven asset price volatility, and Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely, regularly assessing potential adverse movements in the schemes.
Capital management and allocation Although Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries are managed independently, the approach to capital management of each group is consistently applied.
The DLC structure requires the two groups to be considered independent from a capital perspective and hence capital is managed on this basis.
This approach is exercised through the BRCC via the Investec DLC Capital Committee which is a board sub-committee with ultimate responsibility for the capital suf ciency of both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a single uni ed enterprise.
Investec plc is regulated by the FSA in the UK and Investec Limited is regulated by the SARB.
In addition, a number or subsidiaries are subject to the capital regulations of the regulators for the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Philosophy and approach As a consequence of the global financial crisis there is a strong expectation from bank stakeholders that banking groups need to and will improve their capital adequacy ratios.
Investec has always held capital well in excess of regulatory requirements and the group intends to perpetuate this philosophy and ensure that it remains well capitalised in a vastly changed banking world.
Accordingly, the group considers it appropriate to adjust its capital adequacy targets and build its capital base, targeting a minimum tier one capital ratio of 11% and a total capital adequacy ratio of 14% to 17% on a consolidated basis for Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
The determination of target capital is driven by our strategy and risk appetite, taking into account regulatory and market factors applicable to the group.
At the most fundamental level, we seek to balance our capital consumption between ensuring that we are prudently capitalised to meet our risks, and optimisation of shareholder returns.
56 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk management Our internal economic capital framework is designed to manage and achieve this balance.
The internal capital framework is tied to group-wide disciplines surrounding: Capital allocation and structuring Investment decision making and pricing Risk management, especially as it relates to the selection of deals, markets, and investment opportunities Performance measurement Risk-based incentive compensation.
Consequently the objectives of the internal capital framework are to: Maintain suf cient capital to satisfy the boards risk appetite across all risks faced by the group Support a target level of financial strength aligned with a long-term rating of at least A Provide protection to depositors against losses arising from risks inherent in the business Provide suf cient capital surplus to ensure that the group is able to retain its going concern basis under relatively severe operating conditions and support growth in assets Maintain suf cient capital to meet regulatory requirements across each regulated entity: Support our growth strategy Allow the exploration of acquisition opportunities where such opportunities are consistent with our strategy and risk appetite Facilitate pricing that is commensurate with the risk being taken Allocate capital according to the greatest expected marginal risk based return, and track performance on this basis Reward performance taking into account the relative levels of risk adopted.
The framework has been approved by the board and is managed by the DLC Capital Committee, which is responsible for oversight of the management of capital on a regulatory and an internal basis.
Capital structure Investec plc and Investec Limited are the two listed holding companies in terms of the DLC structure.
Investec Bank plc IBP and Investec Bank Limited IBL are the main banking subsidiaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL is a subsidiary of IBP.
As at 31 March 2009 Investec plc IBP IBAL Investec IBL Limited mn mn AUDmn Rmn Rmn Regulatory capital Tier 1 Called up share capital - 655 292 - 22 Share premium 839 37 - 9 862 9 056 Retained income 340 275 336 7 872 5 098 Treasury shares 39 - - 1 758 - Other reserves 115 50 7 340 6 Minority interests in subsidiaries 156 11 - - - Goodwill 296 72 89 309 - Total Tier 1 1 115 934 532 16 007 14 182 Less: deductions 41 18 94 141 242 1 074 916 438 15 866 13 940 Tier 2 capital Aggregate amount 745 604 134 5 106 5 106 Less: deductions 41 18 17 142 142 704 586 117 4 964 4 964 Tier 3 capital Aggregate amount 10 10 - - - Other deductions from Tier 1 and Tier 2 67 105 - - - Total capital 1 721 1 407 555 20 830 18 904 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 57 Risk management Capital requirements As at 31 March 2009 Investec plc IBP IBAL Investec IBL Limited mn mn AUDmn Rmn Rmn Capital requirements 852 709 394 13 951 12 652 Credit risk - prescribed standardised exposure classes 680 578 340 11 431 10 780 Corporates 211 216 245 9 154 8 507 Secured on real estate property 245 197 6 968 968 Counterparty risk on trading positions 25 25 18 349 349 Short-term claims on institutions and corporates 29 25 23 292 288 Retail 41 41 16 251 251 Institutions 17 14 11 331 331 Other exposure classes 112 60 21 86 86 Securitisation exposures 17 16 - 169 169 Equity risk - standardised approach 16 16 11 625 576 Listed equities 2 2 1 96 47 Unlisted equities 14 14 10 529 529 Market risk - portfolios subject to internal models approach 29 29 1 171 106 Interest rate 14 14 1 17 17 Foreign Exchange 1 1 - 39 39 Commodities - - - 8 8 Equities 14 14 - 107 42 Operational risk - standardised approach 110 70 42 1 555 1 021 Capital adequacy As at 31 March 2009 Investec plc IBP IBAL Investec IBL Limited mn mn AUDmn Rmn Rmn Total capital 1 721 1 407 555 20 830 18 904 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 10 645 8 855 3 028 146 856 133 180 Credit risk - prescribed standardised exposure classes 8 492 7 220 2 612 120 331 113 478 Corporates 2 641 2 701 1 882 96 359 89 547 Secured on real estate property 3 060 2 459 44 10 186 10 186 Counterparty risk on trading positions 308 308 136 3 678 3 678 Short-term claims on institutions and corporates 365 312 176 3 077 3 036 Retail 514 514 126 2 640 2 640 Institutions 199 175 83 3 489 3 489 Other exposure classes 1 405 751 165 902 902 Securitisation exposures 218 206 - 1 778 1 778 Equity risk - standardised approach 199 197 83 6 573 6 061 Listed equities 29 27 7 1 009 497 Unlisted equities 170 170 76 5 564 5 564 Market risk - portfolios subject to internal models approach 359 359 11 1 805 1 118 Interest rate 171 171 10 182 182 Foreign Exchange 12 12 1 405 405 Commodities 2 2 - 83 83 Equities 174 174 - 1 135 448 Operational risk - standardised approach 1 377 873 322 16 369 10 745 Capital adequacy ratio 16.2% 15.9% 18.3% 14.2% 14.2% Tier 1 ratio 10.1% 10.3% 14.4% 10.8% 10.5% Capital adequacy ratio - pre operational risk 18.6% 17.6% 20.5% 16.0% 15.4% Tier 1 ratio - pre operational risk 11.6% 11.5% 16.2% 12.2% 11.4% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited 58 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Credit ratings In terms of our Dual Listed Companies structure, Investec plc and Investec Limited are treated separately from a credit point of view.
As a result, the rating agencies have assigned ratings to the signi cant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank plc, Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Certain rating agencies have assigned ratings to the holding companies, namely, Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Rating agency Investec Investec Bank Investec plc Investec Bank Investec Bank Limited Limited - a plc - a Australia subsidiary of subsidiary of Limited - a Investec Investec plc subsidiary of Limited Investec Bank plc Fitch Individual rating C C C C Support rating 5 2 5 2 Foreign currency Short-term F2 F2 F3 F2 Long-term BBB BBB BBB BBB National Short-term F1 zaf Long-term AAzaf Moodys Bank financial strength rating C D CForeign currency Short-term deposit rating Prime-2 Non prime Prime-3 Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Baa1 Ba1 Baa3 Baa1 National Short-term P1 za Long-term Aa2 za Global Credit Local currency Ratings Short-term A1 zaf A2 Long-term AAza BBB Internal Audit Internal Audit provides objective and independent assurance to management and the board that group processes are adequate to identify the signi cant risks to which we are exposed and that the control environment is effective enough to manage these risks.
Internal Audit recommends enhancements to risk management, control and governance processes to address any weaknesses identi ed.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 59 Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to comply with the letter and spirit of all statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we operate.
The SARB is our lead regulator.
Signi cant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by the Reserve Bank as well as by the business home country regulatory authority.
UK and Europe - year in review The UK and European financial systems have experienced signi cant turmoil particularly over the last six months.
As a result of this we expect fundamental reforms to take place to the international regulatory and supervisory framework.
Signi cant work is already underway with the Financial Stability Board and the global standard setters including the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
In the UK a signi cant contribution to the debate was provided by the Chairman of the UKs FSA in the form of the Turner Review.
This report had a wide scope which included a review of the causes of the current crisis, and recommendations on the changes in regulation and supervisory approach needed to create a more robust banking system for the future.
The European Commissions High Level Group on European Financial Supervision published its report in December 2008.
During the period under review regulatory activity in the UK has focused on: Liquidity and stress testing Banking Conduct of Business Payment Services Treating Customers Fairly Various market conduct measures including civil and criminal prosecutions.
Liquidity and stress testing The FSA is conducting a comprehensive review and restructuring of its liquidity regime and is taking part in various liquidity work streams both in Europe and globally.
The FSA published a consultation paper in this regard in December 2008.
Whilst it remains the responsibility of rms senior management to adopt a sound approach to liquidity risk management, the FSA is proposing the following: A new, quantitative framework for liquidity risk management which places greater emphasis on rms ability to assess liquidity risks and develop policies to tackle them: A strengthened qualitative framework for liquidity risk management, with an increased focus on rms stress testing and contingency funding plans: new liquidity reporting requirements: and A new approach to rms operating in the UK which are part of a wider UK or international group.
The FSA believe that the proposed measures will enhance rms liquidity risk management practices signi cantly and will, in some cases, reshape their business models over the coming years.
Furthermore, the measures are intended to improve the FSAs ability to monitor and supervise rms liquidity risk exposures.
In relation to stress testing, the FSA are proposing to introduce a reverse-stress test requirement, which would apply to banks, building societies, investment rms and insurers, and would require rms to consider the scenarios most likely to cause their current business model to become unviable.
The FSA is also proposing to make some drafting changes to the existing requirements on Pillar 2 capital stress and scenario testing, or where rms use internal models to assess their Pillar 1 capital requirements.
The proposed changes are intended to better re ect the importance that the FSA attaches to robust stress and scenario testing and clarify the FSAs expectations of rms.
60 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Compliance Banking Conduct of Business Payment Services The FSA has proposed a new framework to regulate the way that banks treat their customers.
Currently, the Banking Code Standards Board monitors and enforces the voluntary Banking Codes governing current accounts, personal loans and overdrafts, savings accounts, card services and ATMs.
This year the FSA will become responsible for regulating banks and building societies payment transactions under the Payment Services Directive.
The FSA is proposing an extension of their regulation to include all aspects of banks relationships with their retail customers and is looking to introduce the following framework: Full application of the FSAs Principles for Businesses to the regulated activities of accepting deposits and issuing electronic-money: New high-level rules applying to retail banking services outside PSD scope in a Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook : Transfer of existing COBS rules and guidance applying to deposit taking to BCOBS: and Monitoring and enforcement by the FSA, integrated into the wider risk-based approach to the supervision of the relevant rms and groups.
Treating Customers Fairly TCF TCF remains central to the FSAs retail strategy.
Firms were expected to meet the FSAs December 2008 deadline where they were required to prove that TCF management information demonstrated that they were consistently treating customers fairly.
The FSA has con rmed that as from January 2009, delivery of TCF will be tested as part of rms usual supervision and to achieve this, the FSA has said that it will accelerate the full integration of TCF into core supervisory work.
Market abuse measures The combating of market abuse continues to be a signi cant objective for the FSA.
Their agenda has included a move to pursue insider dealing cases in the criminal courts.
During 2008 we also saw various other initiatives from the FSA including: Short selling - On 18 September 2008 the FSA introduced temporary short selling measures in relation to stocks in UK financial sector companies on an emergency basis.
The measures were introduced because of concerns about the potential for market abuse resulting from short selling and the consequent destabilising effects in the extreme circumstances prevailing at the time.
The FSA effectively banned the active creation or increase of net short positions in the stocks of UK financial sector companies and required disclosure to the market of signi cant short positions in those stocks.
The FSA has now lifted the ban but have extended the disclosure obligation until 30 June 2009 and continue to keep the position under review.
The FSA has said that it will reintroduce the ban should this be warranted, and without consultation if necessary.
Unauthorised trading controls - In response to the Socit Gnrale rogue trader incident the FSA published its expectations for the systems and controls necessary to deter unauthorised trading, to detect it promptly if it is occurring and to take appropriate corrective action.
The measures expected by the FSA include mandatory 10 day holidays for all traders.
Rumours - The FSA has published guidelines with respect to the dissemination of false or misleading information and market rumours about companies.
The FSA expressed concern about the impact these forms of market abuse have on general market con dence, particularly in volatile or fragile market conditions.
South Africa - year in review Anti-money laundering AML The implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities is ongoing.
In response to international best practice standards of anti-money laundering and anti-terror nancing and in particular to Guidance Note 3 issued by the Financial Intelligence Centre, which permits an accountable institution to adopt a risk based approach, we have developed and implemented a centralised AML system that has the capability to: Risk weight clients according to the money laundering and or terror nancing risks they may potentially pose.
Compare client lists to databases of adverse client information issued by regulatory authorities which includes persons named on the United Nations lists.
Administer in a central repository the ongoing maintenance of a clients identi cation and veri cation and risk weighting.
During the past year there has been an initiative to get all business units to implement the AML system, which in turn will provide for a centralised view of the Investec customer base.
These systematic developments are supported by an enhanced Group Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terror Financing Policy which incorporates a Client Acceptance Policy to accommodate this risk weighting and the screening of clients.
A further enhancement to the AML system to more adequately address the legislative requirements of suspicious activity reporting was implemented in the last quarter of 2008.
In terms of the transactional monitoring requirement, a project has been initiated in 2008 which is aimed at the implementation of an automated suspicious activity monitoring system ASAM, which takes cognisance of the clients risk weighting and screening and pro les the clients transactional behaviour across all business unit transactional systems.
The ASAM system provides for customer segmentation and enhances customer due diligence on high risk customers.
The project is due to be implemented in October 2009 but will have ongoing enhancements.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 61 Compliance Consumer Law The focus on consumer protection continues into 2009 and the implementation and monitoring of compliance with the requirements of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act FAIS and the National Credit Act NCA is ongoing.
Marking the introduction of broader and more comprehensive consumer rights is the Consumer Protection Act No.
68 of 2008 CPA, which was signed into law in April 2009.
The purpose of the CPA is to protect the interests of all consumers who are subject to abuse or exploitation in the market place and to give effect to internationally recognised best practice, while creating a strong culture of consumer rights and responsibilities.
The Act is expected to be fully implemented by October 2010.
Con icts of interest Potential con icts of interest have been identi ed through workshops with the respective business areas.
The potential con icts identi ed have been mapped on a Con icts Index Matrix, which includes an outline of general con ict types and the business areas between which the con icts could occur.
The mapping exercise additionally identi ed current mitigations and controls in place to manage the respective con icts, as well as where enhanced controls are necessary.
This mapping exercise has been substantially completed for all business areas classi ed as having a high risk of exposure to con icts of interest.
The mapping for business areas identi ed as having a medium or low risk of exposure to con icts of interest has been initiated, and is scheduled for completion by 31 March 2010.
All compliance policies that include mitigations and controls for con icts of interest have been updated and aligned with international best practice.
A Market Conduct module has been added to the compliance induction training.
The module focuses on practical identi cation and management of con icts of interest including the con icts inherent in gifts and entertainment, market abuse and personal account dealing.
Risk based monitoring The second phase of the project which involved the design and migration of a fully comprehensive risk based monitoring programme onto the Enterprise risk Assessor software was completed successfully during the year.
An annual reassessment programme is in progress for all the relevant acts loaded on the Enterprise Risk Assessor which involves re-evaluation of all the risks, controls, treatments and monitoring tests to ensure that these are still relevant.
Australia year in review The main areas of regulatory focus were: Anti-Money Laundering Counter Terrorism Financing Act 2006 AML CTF Act The AML CTF Act has been implemented in stages, and includes obligations such as customer identi cation and veri cation, recordkeeping, and the establishment and maintenance of an AML CTF programme.
Part A of the programme outlines the framework which we use to identify, mitigate and manage the risks which we may reasonably face should the provision of our products and services, whether inadvertently or otherwise, involve or facilitate money laundering or nancing of terrorism.
Part B, encompasses our ongoing customer due diligence procedures and takes into account the risk pro les and types of clients we deal with.
This year has seen the final stage roll out of the anti-money laundering counter terrorism nancing procedures with the last of these obligations coming into effect on 12 December 2008.
These obligations relate to reporting requirements and ongoing customer due diligence, which require reporting entities, such as Investec Australia and its subsidiaries, to monitor customers and their transactions on an ongoing basis.
Licensing During the period under review, we applied for a number of Australian Financial Services Licenses to cover the activities of the Investec Global Aircraft Fund part of our Capital Markets business and the Asset Management business in Australia.
62 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Corporate governance Introduction We are committed to promoting sustainable stakeholder con dence in our conduct as a business and as a corporate citizen.
While the board oversees the overall process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee of the group is responsible for acting in accordance with sound corporate governance practices.
In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate governance practices pragmatically so as to: Identify and mitigate signi cant risks, including reputational risk Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities Promote informed and sound decision making Enable effectiveness, ef ciency, responsibility and accountability Enhance the capital markets and other stakeholders perception of us Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance Secure trust and con dence of all stakeholders Protect our brand and reputation Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions Respond appropriately to changes in market conditions and the business environment Remain at the forefront of international corporate governance practices.
Our values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote and maintain trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that our values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually re ne these structures and a written Statement of Values serves as our Code of Ethics.
We operate under a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before adopting the stricter rule for the group.
All international business units operate in accordance with the above determined corporate governance recommendations, in addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear reference at all times to group values and culture.
This section provides a summary of our corporate governance philosophy, practices and key developments for the year ended 31 March 2009.
A more detailed review is provided in the Investec groups 2009 Annual Report.
Board of directors The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership for the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risks to be assessed and managed.
Speci cally, it is responsible for the adoption of strategic plans, monitoring of operational performance and management, ensuring an effective risk management strategy, compliance with applicable legislation, upholding corporate governance standards and succession.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the groups values and standards, promoting the highest standards of corporate governance, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
The board has fide ned the limits of delegated authority.
It is responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies, ensuring appropriate internal controls, overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, approving the establishment of businesses and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In ful lling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors and evaluates managements progress on an ongoing basis.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 63 Corporate governance Furthermore, directly or through its sub-committees, the board: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our performance through a comprehensive system of financial and nonfinancial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates Approves annual budgets, capital projections and business plans Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice Monitors our communication with all stakeholders and disclosures made Identi es and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity.
The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
All directors are subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
In compliance with the London Combined Code A.
7.2. non-executive directors who have served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election are re-elected annually.
Retiring directors are subject to an assessment of their performance by the Chairman and the Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee before nomination for re-election and re-appointment.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting are on pages 100 to 103.
Date of appointment Independent Last Retiring Investec Investec elected and seeking plc Limited re-election in 2009 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 26 Jun 02 6 Oct 86 No 2006 Yes B Kantor Managing Director 26 Jun 02 8 Jun 87 No 2008 No GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 3 Jul 02 3 Jul 02 No 2007 No A Tapnack 1 Jul 02 1 Jul 02 No 2007 No Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 Jun 02 1 Jan 94 No 2008 Yes SE Abrahams 26 Jun 02 21 Oct 96 Yes 2008 Yes GFO Alford 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2007 No CA Carolus 18 Mar 05 18 Mar 05 Yes 2008 No H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2008 No GMT Howe 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2008 No IR Kantor 26 Jun 02 30 Jul 80 No 2008 Yes Sir Chips Keswick Senior Independent Director 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2008 No MP Malungani 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 No 2008 No Sir David Prosser 23 Mar 06 23 Mar 06 Yes 2006 Yes PRS Thomas 26 Jun 02 29 Jun 81 Yes 2008 Yes F Titi 30 Jan 04 30 Jan 04 No 2007 No The board is supported by key committees, as follows: DLC Audit Committee Investec plc Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Investec Limited Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Board Risk and Capital Committee - DLC Capital Committee - Executive Risk Review Forum - Various specialist risk committees and forums DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee DLC Remuneration Committee These committees have speci c terms of reference, appropriately skilled members and access to specialist advice when necessary.
64 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Corporate governance Year in review Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are in full support of and committed to complying with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2006 and the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct King II, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
The board is of the opinion that Investec has complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in Section 1 of the London Combined Code 2006 as well as King II, during the period under review, excluding the independence of the Chairman, as outlined below.
3.1. and King II - Independence of the Chairman The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent.
At the time of his appointment and up to 2005, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He was also included in various management incentive and share ownership schemes.
For these reasons, he is not considered by the board to be independent in accordance with the London Combined Code and King II.
However, since 2005, Hugh has distanced himself from executive responsibilities.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 65 Corporate governance Governance framework Our governance framework can be depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited - Board of directors DLC Nomination and Audit Committee Board Risk and Capital Directors Affairs Committee Committee DLC Remuneration Audit DLC Capital Executive Committee Sub-Committees Committee Risk Review Forum Audit and Compliance Group Credit Committee Implementation Forums Group Investment Committee Group Deal Forum Group Market Risk Forum Asset and Liability Committees Operational Risk Committees Forums Group Legal Risk Forums Internal Compliance Group Risk Management Audit Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 66 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Risk and governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee - an overview The remuneration report was prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the board.
The board believes that a properly constituted and effective remuneration committee is key to improving the link between directors pay and performance, with the ultimate aim of enhancing our competitiveness.
The primary purpose of the committee is to determine our policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the remuneration package for each executive director.
The committee consists entirely of non-executive directors, and executive directors are not involved in determining their own remuneration packages.
This report describes our remuneration policy and directors remuneration for the 2009 financial year.
Our overall remuneration philosophy remains unchanged from prior years, however, certain aspects with respect to the components of our reward programmes have been reviewed and amended.
During the period, in addition to its regular business, the committee focused specifi cally on: The continued appropriateness of our long standing reward programmes given volatile market conditions The introduction of a non-cash deferred component of our variable remuneration payments see page 74 Industry commentary and developments with respect to remuneration practices, notably: - the Financial Services Authority FSA Reforming remuneration practices in financial services consultation paper of March 2009 - the South African Registrar of Banks circular 2 2008 and their review of incentive schemes operated by South African based banks Talent management and the retention of senior management and executives.
Key points to note for the period under review include: Investec has continued to operate its diversi ed business model which has enabled it to navigate through the present challenging operating environment.
Core capital and liquidity ratios remain sound and the group has reported attributable earnings of 269.2 million 2008: 344.7 million.
The group has increased the upper end of its dividend cover range and its capital adequacy targets.
Further information on our risk management indicators, policies and procedures and the groups performance can be found on pages 32 to 58.
Total employee costs decreased from 552.2 million to 520.2 million with xed costs increasing by 8.6% to 375.3 million and variable remuneration decreasing by 29.9% to 144.8 million.
34.2 million of the current years variable remuneration has been paid in the form of share awards and deferred representing 23.6% of our variable remuneration expense for the year.
Executive directors have received no salary increases for the 2010 financial year and bonuses have decreased by 51.7%.
Non-executive directors will receive no increases in fee arrangements for the 2010 financial year.
Our rewards programmes continue to be appropriately adjusted for risk and unrealised pro ts.
We further believe that our reward programmes align directors and employees interests with those of our other stakeholders.
Our total shareholder return was negative 7.5% for Investec plc in Pounds Sterling and negative 26.6% for Investec Limited in Rands.
This compares to a negative return of 45.8% for the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
The group has decreased its dividend return by 12.2% in Pounds Sterling and 2.8% in Rands over the year.
We have also experienced a decline in our share price as a result of the global credit and liquidity crisis.
This decline is not out of line with the fall in share prices of other UK universal and global investment banks.
Since listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Investec plc has outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index see graph on page 79.
Executive directors hold 1.6% and 3.2% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Nonexecutive directors hold 0.7% and 4.0% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively see table on page 82.
Investec plc issued 1.6 million ordinary shares and Investec Limited issued 2.3 million ordinary shares to the staff share schemes during the year.
Looking forward The Remuneration Committee will continue to ensure that reward packages remain appropriately competitive, provide an incentive for performance, and take due regard of our culture, values, philosophies, business strategy and risk management and capital framework.
The committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as discussed in this report, under review during the 2010 financial year, particularly taking cognisance of regulatory and market driven remuneration reform proposals.
Where appropriate, we will continue to consult shareholders and shareholder bodies on any signi cant proposed changes in remuneration policy.
The committee unanimously recommends that you vote to approve this report at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the board George Alford Chairman, Remuneration Committee 15 June 2009 70 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Compliance and governance statement The Remuneration Report complies with the provisions of the 2006 London Combined Code, Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985, the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules, the South African King II Code of Corporate Practice and Conduct and the JSE Limited Listing Rules.
Additional information has also been included to re ect the most common enquiries received and to address some of the issues raised in the various public debates that are currently ongoing with respect to remuneration practices.
Composition and role of the committee The members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year were George Alford Chairman, Geoffrey Howe and Sir Chips Keswick.
The members are all independent non-executive directors and are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All the members are also members of the groups Board Risk and Capital Committee and the Audit Committee, thus bringing risk and control mechanisms into their deliberations.
The committees principal responsibilities and objectives are to: Determine, develop and agree with the board, the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of executive directors and executive management comprising individuals discharging managerial responsibilities who are the global heads of our core areas of activity and are members of our global operations forum.
Ensure that quali ed and experienced management and executives will be provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and will be, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their contribution to the success of the group and alignment with the corporate objectives and business strategy.
Review and approve the design of, and determine targets and objectives for any performance related pay schemes for directors and executive management and approve annual payouts under such schemes.
Determine, within the terms of the agreed policy, the total individual remuneration packages of executive directors and executive management including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share scheme awards.
Oversee any major changes in our employee bene t structures.
Ensure that the comments, recommendations and rules within the UK and South Africa pertaining to directors remuneration are given due regard, in determining the packages of executive directors.
The committee is authorised by the board to seek any information it requires from any employee in order to perform its duties.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Meetings The committee met six times during the financial year with full attendance other than for four meetings which Sir Chips Keswick was unable to attend, having been excused from attending several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman.
The Company Secretary of Investec plc acts as Secretary to the committee.
Executive directors do not attend these meetings.
The Chairman of the committee reports on the activities of the committee at each meeting of the full board.
Advisers to the committee Where appropriate, the committee has access to independent executive remuneration consultants.
The selection of the advisers is at the discretion of the committee Chairman and Investec funds any expenses relating to the appointment of external consultants.
During the financial year, the committee continued to use the services of its advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street which, among other things, speci cally reviewed and provided information on industry consultation papers and developments with respect to remuneration practices and our alignment to them.
In addition, they continued to review and provide information on appropriate benchmark, industry and comparable organisations remuneration practices.
Their recommendations are important in the ongoing review of our remuneration practices.
Furthermore, we have used the services of Linklaters, which have advised this year mainly on a number of issues pertaining to our incentive plans.
Linklaters is one of Investec plcs legal advisers.
Certain specialist divisions within the group, for example Human Resources and the Staff Shares division, provide supporting information and documentation relating to matters that are presented to the committee.
This includes, for example, comparative data and motivations for proposed salary, bonus and share awards.
The variable remuneration pools are determined by our Finance teams taking into account risk adjusted capital requirements and after eliminating unrealised gains.
The employees within these specialist divisions, which provide support to the committee, are not board directors and are not appointed by the committee.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 71 Remuneration Report The committee, together with the board, attends a strategic offsite at the beginning of each year at which senior executive employees provide information and presentations on the groups strategic direction, prospects, key focus areas and annual budget.
While executive directors have the right to address any meeting of the committee, they play no role in the determination of their remuneration package.
During the financial year no executive director attended any meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Furthermore, no employee participates in discussions or decisions of the committee relating to their own remuneration.
Policy on executive directors and employees remuneration Our philosophy and policy remain unchanged from prior years and aim to employ the highest calibre individuals who are characterised by integrity, intellect and innovation and who adhere and subscribe to our culture, values and philosophies.
We strive to inspire entrepreneurship by providing a working environment that stimulates extraordinary performance, so that executive directors and employees may be positive contributors to our clients, their communities and the group.
We reward executive directors and employees for their contribution through payment of an industry competitive annual package, a variable performance reward and ownership in the form of share incentive scheme participation.
Overall rewards are considered as important as our core values of work content greater responsibility, variety of work and high level of challenge and work af liation entrepreneurial feel to the company and unique culture in the attraction, retention and motivation of employees.
We have a strong entrepreneurial, merit and values-based culture, characterised by passion, energy and stamina.
The ability to live and perpetuate our values, culture and philosophies in the pursuit of excellence is considered paramount in determining overall reward levels.
The type of people the organisation attracts, and the culture and environment within which they work, remain crucial in determining our success and long-term progress.
The key principles of our remuneration policy for executive directors and employees, which were consistently applied during the financial year, are as follows: Reward programmes are designed and administered to align directors and employees interests with those of stakeholders, thus ensuring the promotion of effective risk management.
Reward programmes incorporate a pool mechanism that incorporates risk factors as discussed on page 74.
Reward programmes are clear and transparent, in order to retain individual interest in, and identi cation with, our short and long-term success.
Total rewards comprise a xed and variable component.
Total compensation base salary, pension, bene ts and incentives is targeted in normal market conditions to the relevant competitive market see below at upper quartile levels for superior performance.
A signi cant proportion of rewards, including annual and long-term incentive components, are explicitly linked to the performance of the business and the individual business units.
We recognise the performance of the business and the individual.
As indicated above, qualitative and quantitative issues form an integral part of the determination of reward levels.
We do not apply an upper limit on performance bonuses given our risk based Economic Value Added approach discussed further on page 74 and prefer to contain the xed cost component of remuneration at modest levels.
Reward levels are targeted to be commercially competitive, on the following basis: - The most relevant competitive reference points for reward levels are based on the scope of responsibility and individual contributions made.
- Appropriate benchmark, industry and comparable organisations remuneration practices are reviewed regularly.
For executive directors, the FTSE 350 General Finance rms provide the most appropriate benchmark.
For employees, a combination of rms from the JSE Financial 15 and the FTSE 350 General Finance sector offer the most appropriate benchmark.
The committee also reviews on an individual basis data on other international banks with whom we compete.
The committee recognises that we operate an international business and compete with both local and international competitors in each of our markets.
In order to avoid disproportionate packages across areas of the group and between executives, adjustments are made at any extremes to ensure broad internal consistency.
Adjustments may also be made to the competitive positioning of pay components for individuals, in cases where a higher level of investment is needed in order to build or grow either a business unit or our capability in a geography.
72 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy on non-executive directors remuneration The board agrees and determines the fees of non-executive directors and the fees are reviewed annually.
The boards policy is that fees should re ect individual responsibilities and membership of board committees.
In view of the current market conditions and the focus on controlling xed remuneration, it was decided that the non-executive directors will receive no increase in their fees in the forthcoming year.
Their fee structure covers the dual roles that the directors perform for the UK listed Investec plc and the South African listed Investec Limited boards.
The fee structure for non-executive directors for the 2009 and 2010 financial years is shown below: Non-executive directors remuneration 2009 fi financial year As approved by the board for the 2010 fi financial year Chairmans total fee 360 000 per year 360 000 per year Basic fee non-executive director fee 53 000 per year 53 000 per year Chairman of the DLC Audit Committee 45 000 per year 45 000 per year Chairman of the DLC Remuneration Committee 32 000 per year 32 000 per year Member of the DLC Audit Committee 13 000 per year 13 000 per year Member of the DLC Remuneration Committee 12 500 per year 12 500 per year Member of Investec Bank UK Limited board 9 000 per year 9 000 per year Member of the Investec Bank Limited board R150 000 per year R150 000 per year Fees are also payable for any additional time committed to the group including attendance at certain other meetings There is no requirement for non-executive directors to hold shares in the company.
The company has left this choice to the discretion of each non-executive director.
Service contracts and terms of employment Our executive directors have inde nite contracts of employment, terminable by either party giving six months written notice to the other.
Each executive director is entitled to receive a basic salary and is also eligible for an annual bonus, the amount of which will be determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Furthermore, the executive directors may elect to sacri ce a portion of their annual salary to receive company bene ts such as a travel allowance and medical aid.
The full costs of these bene ts will be deducted from their annual salary.
The contracts of employment do not contain provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
Executive directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards or committees so long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Company.
Any fees earned by executives in this regard are not retained and are given back to the respective companies.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and letters of appointment con rm the terms and conditions of their service.
The letters of appointment do not contain provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
Unless the non-executive directors resign earlier or are removed from their positions, they will remain appointed as directors until the close of our annual general meeting in 2010 subject to rotational re-election as directors at the 2009 meeting and in terms of the provision of the Articles of Association.
All non-executive directors who have been members of the board for longer than nine years are subject to annual re-election as required in terms of our Articles of Association.
Those directors seeking rotational re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting are shown on page 64.
Biographical details of the directors of the board These details can be found on pages 100 to 103.
Dates of appointment to the board The boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate and subject to separate legal obligations for each company.
In terms of the DLC arrangements, they comprise the same persons who are authorised, as boards, to manage Investec as if it were a uni ed economic enterprise.
Details on the dates the directors were appointed to the board can be found on page 64.
Policies on the components of remuneration and employment The reward package for executive directors and employees comprises: Base salary and bene ts Annual bonuses Long-term share incentive plans 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 73 Remuneration Report The committee reviews the elements of the reward package relative to appropriate benchmarks and other comparable organisations, the contribution by the individual and the business as a whole, the value of individuals in perpetuating our values and culture, and the possible replacement cost of such individuals.
The elements of the reward package, as listed above, are discussed below and the components for each director are detailed in tables accompanying this report.
As a consequence of the global financial markets crisis and the resultant debate and review surrounding remuneration policies and procedures the committee has made a few changes to the components of our reward programmes.
Base salary and bene ts Salaries are reviewed annually and re ect the relative skills and experience of, and contribution made by, the individual.
It is the companys policy to seek to set base salaries including bene ts at median market levels.
Bene ts are targeted at competitive levels and are delivered through exible and tailored packages.
Bene ts include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: medical cover: and other bene ts, as dictated by competitive local market practices.
Only salaries are pensionable, the annual bonuses paid are not pensionable.
Our disclosure of executive directors salaries on page 80 has been done on a gross basis i. e. inclusive of pension fund contributions from the company.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are closely linked to business performance, based on target business unit performance goals determined in the main by realised Economic Value Added EVA pro t performance against pre-determined targets above a risk and capital weighted return.
These targets have been in force, and unchanged, for the past few years and are subject to annual review.
Our business strategy and associated risk appetite, together with effective capital utilisation, form the key cornerstones which underpin the EVA annual bonus allocation model.
Business units share in the annual bonus pool to the extent that they have generated a realised return on their allocated risk adjusted capital base in excess of their target ROE.
Targeted returns re ect the competitive economics and shareholder expectation for the speci c area of the business, and are set with reference to competitive benchmarks for each product line.
Capital allocated is a function of both regulatory and internal capital requirements, the risk assumed within the business and our overall business strategy.
The group has always held capital in excess of minimum regulatory requirements, and this philosophy is perpetuated in our internal capital allocation process.
A detailed explanation of our capital management and allocation process is provided on pages 56 to 58.
Growth in pro tability over time will result in an increasing incentive pool, as long as it is not achieved at the expense of capital ef ciency.
Target returns must be re ective of the inherent risk assumed in the business.
Thus, an increase in absolute pro tability does not automatically result in an increase in the annual bonus pool.
This approach allows us to embed risk and capital discipline in our business processes.
In essence varying levels of return required for each business unit re ect the state of market maturity, country of operation, risk, capital invested capital intensive businesses or expected expense base fee based businesses.
Individual annual incentive levels are allocated from the EVA pool, based on individual performance, as determined by the committee.
Furthermore, as discussed previously, qualitative issues are integral in the determination of annual bonuses.
In this regard, if business and individual performance goals are achieved or bettered, the variable element of the total reward package is likely to be substantially higher than the relevant target market so as to ensure that overall reward levels are positioned at the upper quartile level for superior performance, in line with our overriding remuneration policy.
Developments over the past year During the financial year the group implemented two changes with respect to annual bonus payments, which are highlighted here and explained in more detail below: The introduction of a deferred bonus plan: and The introduction of non-cash bonuses.
Investec Limited Deferred Bonus Plan 2008 and Investec plc Deferred Bonus Plan 2008 In April 2008, the group introduced a deferred bonus scheme whereby a portion of an employees variable remuneration can be awarded in the form of deferred bonus shares.
The first awards were made as part of the June 2008 bonus payments.
These share awards provided for a two-year deferral but the Bonus Plan allows for deferral of between one to five years.
It is the condition of the plan that the employee is still employed by the group on vesting date in order to bene t under this plan.
Participants have no rights in respect of these shares, including the right to dividends, until the vesting date occurs.
74 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report EVA share awards non-cash bonuses During the current year the group further re ned its performance bonus policies by introducing a non-cash element in the form of forfeitable share awards for all employees whose bonuses exceed a pre-determined hurdle rate the amount of which will be reviewed each year and by introducing a more formal deferral requirement, initially over an eleven-month period.
These awards will be made in terms of our existing long term incentive plans.
These changes are in addition to the introduction in 2008 of a deferred bonus plan and further align directors and employees interests with those of stakeholders, and ensure that reward programmes are appropriately risk-adjusted.
Share option and long-term share incentive plans We have a number of share option and long-term share incentive plans that are designed to link the interests of directors and employees with those of shareholders and long-term organisational interests, through performance and risk-based equity grants.
Prior to the implementation of our DLC structure and our listing on the London Stock Exchange in July 2002, we had a number of share option, share purchase and leveraged share schemes in place that were appropriate for a South African listed company.
However, at the time of the London listing it was necessary for us to consider implementing a more internationally recognised share scheme structure and philosophy.
As a result, a number of share option plans were introduced to cater for regulatory, tax and other considerations pertaining to the various jurisdictions in which we operated.
At the same time, however, a decision was taken to maintain the schemes that were in place prior to the London listing until the allocations made in terms of those schemes matured.
While this gives rise to what appears to be a multitude of schemes, the philosophy and practical implications are fairly simple the appropriate level of equity allocation is determined for each employee and then awards are made out of the scheme that is considered most appropriate for that individual given his her location, tax and regulatory environment.
The share option and long-term share incentive plans in operation, and in which the directors are eligible to participate, are summarised in the table below and further details are provided on our website.
Executive directors collectively hold approximately 2.2% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Leveraged equity plans A group of senior and executive managers, including certain Investec plc Investec Limited directors, who have or can have a signi cant impact on the business, were granted participation prior to the implementation of the DLC structure in a leveraged equity plan known as Fintique II, which was established in 1996.
This plan reached its final maturity in July 2008.
Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Options Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period granted issued as 1 mented individual during the at 31 March 3 4 5 6 year 2009 7 Long-term incentive plans Investec 1 New and existing 16 Mar Investec plc Cumulative None 75% end of 5 425 681 Number: Limited Share full time 2005 limit of year 4 and 24 355 807 Incentive Plan employees 2 500 000 25% end of - nil cost Excluding across all year 5 % of issued options employees in SA, option plans share capital Botswana, In any financial of company: Namibia and year: 1x 5.5% Mauritius remuneration Excluding package executive directors Investec New and existing 16 Mar Investec Cumulative None 75% end of 5 454 600 Number: Limited Share full time 2005 Limited limit of year 4 and 28 058 075 Incentive Plan employees in SA, 2 500 000 25% end of nil cost Botswana, across all year 5 % of issued options Namibia and option plans share capital Mauritius In any financial of company: Excluding year: 1x 10.5% executive remuneration directors package 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 75 Remuneration Report Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans continued Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Options Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period granted issued as 1 mented individual during the at 31 March 3 4 5 6 year 2009 7 Long-term incentive plans Investec plc Executive 14 Nov Matching A maximum Vesting scale 75% end of Nil Number Share directors 2005 awards of of 750 000 over the year 4 and 2 450 000 Matching Investec investment period based 25% end of Plan 2005 Limited and shares may on normalised year 5 % of issued Investec plc be invested in EPS growth in share capital shares in the plan each excess of UK of company: the ratio of time the plan is RPI, with 0% 0.6% 1:1 against operated vesting if EPS shares growth is less invested in than 4% plus plan by the RPI p. a. and director 100% vesting if EPS growth is in excess of RPI plus 12% p. a.
Current share option plans Investec plc New and existing 28 Aug Investec plc Cumulative Growth in Initially two 162 600 Number: Share Option full-time 2002 limit of headline EPS tranches of 1 777 570 Plan 2002 employees 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% 50% at the unapproved Excluding across all compounded end of year % of issued plan employees in SA, option plans annually over one and the share capital Botswana, In any financial the period of end of year of company: Namibia and year: 1x the grant two 0.4% Mauritius remuneration UK employees package - grants exceeding 30 000 Directors and executives Investec New and existing 2 June Investec Cumulative None Initially two 43 850 43 850 Limited full-time 2008 Limited limit of tranches of Deferred employees in SA, 2 500 000 50% at the % of issued Bonus Plan Botswana, across all end of year share capital 2008 Namibia and option plans one and the of company: Mauritius In any financial end of year 0% year: 1x two remuneration package Investec plc New and existing 2 June Investec plc Cumulative None Variable with a 663 000 663 000 Deferred full-time 2008 limit of minimum non Bonus Plan employees 2 500 000 dealing period % of issued 2008 Excluding across all of one year.
share capital employees in SA, option plans of company: Botswana, In any financial 0.1% Namibia and year: 1x Mauritius remuneration package 76 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans continued Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Options Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period granted issued as 1 mented individual during the at 31 March 3 4 5 6 year 2009 Plan introduced in terms of our empowerment transaction The Investec Employees of 15 May Investec 500 000 None Tranches over 1 411 875 Number: Limited Investec Limited 2003 Limited individual limit eight years 11 140 171 Security who are African, in terms of this ending 15 May Purchase Coloured or Indian scheme 2011 % of issued Scheme 2003 individuals Cumulative share capital Excluding limit of of company: executive 2 500 000 4.2% directors across all option plans In any financial year: 1x remuneration package Share plans not currently in use Investec plc New and existing 28 Aug Investec plc Cumulative Growth in Tranches of Nil Number: Share Option UK full-time 2002 limit of headline EPS 50%, 25% 1 269 725 Plan 2002 employees - 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% and 25% approved grants up to the across all compounded at the third, % of issued plan value of 30 000 option plans annually over fourth and fifth share capital Directors and In any financial the period of the anniversaries of company: executives year: 1x grant respectively 0.3% remuneration package Investec plc New and existing 28 Aug Cash Cumulative Growth in Tranches of Last grant Number: Nil Share full-time 2002 settled limit of headline EPS 25% each on made on Appreciation employees based on 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% the second, 17 June % of issued Option Plan Excluding the increase across all compounded third, fourth 2003 share capital 2002 employees in SA, in the option plans annually over and fifth of company: Botswana, Investec In any financial the period of anniversaries 0% Namibia and Limited year: 1x the grant Mauritius share price remuneration UK employees package - grants exceeding 30 000 Directors and executives Investec New and existing 20 June Investec Cumulative Growth in Tranches of Last grant Number: Limited full-time 2002 Limited and limit of headline EPS 25% each on made on 990 247 Security employees in SA, Investec plc 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% the second, 14 Dec Purchase and Botswana, across all compounded third, fourth 2005 % of issued Option Namibia and option plans annually over and fifth share capital Scheme Trust Mauritius In any financial the period of anniversaries of company: 2002 Directors and year: 1x the grant 0.2% executives remuneration package 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 77 Remuneration Report Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans continued Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Options Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period granted issued as 1 mented individual during the at 31 March 3 4 5 6 year 2009 Share plans introduced prior to implementation of the DLC structure Investec Employees - 1 Nov Investec Cumulative None Tranches of Last grant Number: Group Limited excluding SA, 1999 Group limit of 25% each on made on 371 890 UK Share Botswana, Limited 2 500 000 the second, 20 June Option Plan Namibia and prior to across all third, fourth 2002.
% of issued Mauritius implemenoption plans and fifth No further share capital Directors and tation of In any financial anniversaries.
grants will of company: executives DLC year: 1x Awards lapse be made 0.1% structure remuneration 10 years after now package grant Investec Limited and Investec plc Investec Employees in SA, 25 Nov Investec Cumulative None Tranches of Last grant Number: Limited Botswana, 1988 Limited and limit of 25% each on made on 2 309 029 Security Namibia and Investec plc 2 500 000 the second, 2 May Purchase and Mauritius across all third, fourth 2002.
% of issued Option Directors and option plans and fifth No further share capital Scheme Trust executives In any financial anniversaries.
grants will of company: year: 1x Awards lapse be made 0.3% remuneration 10 years after package grant Notes: 1 The limits for allocations to employees and executive management during a financial year may be exceeded if the directors determine that exceptional circumstances make it desirable that options should be granted in excess of that limit.
2 These conditions require growth in headline earnings per share EPS over the relevant option period to equal or exceed the UK Retail Price Index RPI plus 3% compounded annually over the same period.
In choosing the performance targets for this plan, the committee considered the merits of EPS-based targets against other possibilities, such as comparative performance or comparative growth in return on average shareholders funds ROE against a basket of other companies.
The committee determined that EPS-based targets are most appropriate as they measure our underlying growth.
The committee intends to continue to apply this during the 2010 financial year but keeps the whole matter of the suitability of target-linked share based remuneration under periodic review.
This note does not apply to the Share Matching Plan 2005 which has different performance conditions as approved by shareholders further information is available on our website.
3 This represents the number of awards made to all participants.
More details on the directors shareholdings are also provided in tables accompanying this report.
4 Dilution limits: Investec is committed to following the Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines and accordingly, as from the date of the implementation of our DLC structure 29 July 2002, the maximum number of new shares which may be issued by the company under all of the share plans in respect of grants made after July 2002 may not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the company over a rolling ten-year period.
The committee regularly monitors the utilisation of dilution limits and available headroom to ensure that these guidelines are complied with.
The issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited at 31 March 2009 was 444.9 million shares and 268.3 million shares, respectively.
As announced on the stock exchange news services, 1.6 million Investec plc and 2.3 million Investec Limited shares were issued to the staff share schemes during the year.
5 The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2009 was 2.92 2008: 3.39, ranging from a low of 1.69 to a high of 4.21 during the financial year.
6 The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2009 was R38.86 2008: R57.43, ranging from a low of R27.20 to a high of R63.19 during the financial year.
7 The rules of these long-term incentive plans do not allow Investec to issue new shares to the plan to satisfy any awards made to participants, nor may awards be made to executive directors.
78 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Performance graph total shareholder return We have implemented a DLC structure, in terms of which we have primary listings in London and Johannesburg.
The listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE took place on 29 July 2002, although we have been listed in South Africa since 1986.
Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 requires this report to include a performance graph of Investec plcs total shareholder return TSR performance against that of a broad market index.
We found it dif cult to locate an appropriate group of companies to benchmark ourselves against because of our specialist activities.
A number of companies within the FTSE 350 General Finance Index conduct similar activities to us, although they do not necessarily have the same geographical pro le.
Nevertheless, we believe that this is the most appropriate index against which to measure our performance on the LSE.
The graph below shows the cumulative shareholder return for a holding of our shares in blue in Pounds Sterling on the LSE, compared to the average total shareholder return of other members of the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
It shows that, at 31 March 2009, a hypothetical 100 invested in Investec plc at the time of its listing on the LSE in July 2002 would have generated a total return of 222 compared with a return of 41 if invested in the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
Investec plc has therefore outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index over the period.
During the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2009, the return to shareholders of Investec plc measured in Pounds Sterling and Investec Limited measured in Rands was negative 7.5% and negative 26.6%, respectively.
The market price of our shares on the LSE was 2.92 as at 31 March 2009, ranging from a low of 1.69 to a high of 4.21 during the financial year.
Furthermore, the market price of our shares on the JSE Limited was R38.86 as at 31 March 2009, ranging from a low of R27.20 to a high of R63.19 during the financial year.
2 Gross remuneration of S Koseff, B Kantor and A Tapnack has increased on average by approximately 4%.
The gross remuneration of GR Burger is determined in Rands and converted into Pounds Sterling.
In Rand terms GR Burgers gross remuneration increased by 7.7% from R2 795 833 to R3 012 500.
Gross remuneration increases for other employees across the group have generally been in the range of 2% to 8%, and the increases awarded to executive directors are consistent with this.
The executive directors have received no increases in salaries for the 2010 financial year.
3 The executive directors receive other bene ts which may include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: and medical cover, on similar terms to other senior executives.
4 In determining annual bonuses, a number of quantitative and qualitative factors metrics were considered which included: - The group recorded a decline in attributable earnings, dividends per share and total shareholder return.
- The group, however, maintained a sound balance sheet with low leverage and healthy capital and liquidity ratios during a challenging operating environment.
- The group reported operating pro ts in all of its core geographies, bene ting from its recurring income base.
- The group maintained its capital strength without recourse to shareholders, new investors or government assistance.
- A focused and intimate involvement of the executive directors in ensuring stringent management of risk, liquidity and capital.
- The group emerged from this period with its capacity to compete, its brand and its entrepreneurial spirit unimpeded.
Further information on the groups performance and risk management metrics have been discussed elsewhere in the Annual Report.
80 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Notes to table on page 199 continued: 4 S Koseff and B Kantor are each awarded a total bonus of 1 250 000, comprising 494 000 in cash payable in June 2009 and the balance deferred and payable in cash on 28 February 2010.
The deferred component will be calculated with reference to the value of 240 000 shares at 28 February 2010.
For annual report disclosure and reporting purposes the deferred component was determined at the remuneration committee meeting held on 3 June 2009 at a price per share of 3.15 being the average closing Investec plc share price over the period 31 March 2009 to 31 May 2009.
GR Burger has been awarded a total bonus of R20 million, comprising R10 107 200 in cash payable in June 2009 and the balance deferred and payable in cash on 28 February 2010.
For annual report disclosure and reporting purposes the deferred component was determined at the remuneration committee meeting held on 3 June 2009 at a price per share of R41.22 being the average closing Investec plc share price over the period 31 March 2009 to 31 May 2009.
A Tapnack has been awarded a total bonus of 500 000, comprising 235 000 in cash payable in June 2009 and the balance deferred and payable in cash on 28 February 2010.
The deferred component will be calculated with reference to the value of 84 127 shares at 28 February 2010.
The introduction of the deferred component in annual bonuses is in line with the committees philosophy as described on page 193.
6 A breakdown of the components of the reward packages for the executive directors in the 2008 financial year is as follows: Name Salary Total Gross Annual Total other benefi ts remuneration bonus remuneration Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 323 740 73 760 397 500 2 900 000 3 297 500 B Kantor Managing Director 370 236 37 723 407 959 2 900 000 3 307 959 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 219 729 42 830 262 559 2 445 842 2 708 401 A Tapnack 258 333 30 844 289 177 750 000 1 039 177 Total Pounds Sterling 1 172 038 185 157 1 357 195 8 995 842 10 353 037 Retirement bene ts None of the executive directors belong to a fide ned bene t pension scheme and all are members of one of our fide ned contribution schemes.
The total contribution to these schemes, payable by the company, included in the total salary of the director or included in bene ts paid as highlighted in the tables above, is as follows: Name 2009 2008 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 58 055 54 813 B Kantor Managing Director 32 302 27 563 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director - 26 841 A Tapnack 49 689 25 833 Total Pounds Sterling 140 046 135 050 Executive directors total assumed cost to company The table below provides an indication of the total cost to the company in relation to executive directors remuneration.
Total cash payments and bene ts re ect the information disclosed in the tables above.
The IFRS accounting charge in terms of IFRS 2 re ects the cost that has been expensed by the company in its income statement in the relevant period in relation to share options and long-term incentive awards that have been granted to the executives.
Further details on these equity awards are provided in the tables that follow.
Name Salary, Accounting Total Salary, Accounting Total bonus and IFRS charge assumed bonus and IFRS charge assumed other in relation remuneration other in relation remuneration benefi ts to equity expense benefi ts to equity expense awards awards 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 1 660 000 623 666 2 283 666 3 297 500 636 737 3 934 237 B Kantor Managing Director 1 660 000 623 838 2 283 838 3 307 959 633 809 3 941 768 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 1 625 534 666 258 2 291 792 2 708 401 647 000 3 355 401 A Tapnack 827 766 166 483 994 249 1 039 177 170 075 1 209 252 Total Pounds Sterling 5 773 300 2 080 245 7 853 545 10 353 037 2 087 621 12 440 658 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 81 Remuneration Report Directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards The companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards.
The tables that follow provide information on the directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards for the year ended 31 March 2009.
2 The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2009 was 2.92 2008: 3.39, ranging from a low of 1.69 to a high of 4.21 during the financial year.
3 The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2009 was R38.86 2008: R57.43, ranging from a low of R27.20 to a high of R63.19 during the financial year.
In addition to their shareholdings re ected in the table above, some of the directors have an interest in options over Investec Limited shares, the details of which are as follows: 4 S Koseff - purchased European call options on 11 June 2008 over 155 825 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R48.27 per share and an expiry date of 11 June 2011.
5 B Kantor - Purchased European call options on 22 July 2008 over 500 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R52.03 per share and an expiry date of 22 July 2010.
Purchased European call options on 11 June 2008 over 500 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R48.27 per share and an expiry date of 11 June 2011.
Purchased put options on 27 November 2008 over 1 000 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R40.00 per share and an expiry date of 27 May 2009.
Sold call options on 27 November 2008 over 2 000 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R50.00 per share and an expiry date of 27 May 2009.
6 GR Burger - purchased European call options on 11 June 2008 over 63 300 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R48.27 per share and an expiry date of 11 June 2011.
7 HS Herman - purchased European call options on 11 June 2008 over 30 875 Investec Limited shares at a strike of R48.27 per share and an expiry date of 11 June 2011.
8 In November 2003, Investec Limited concluded an empowerment transaction with Tiso Group Tiso, Peu Group Proprietary Limited Peu, a broad-based Entrepeneurship Development Trust and an Employee Share Trust in terms of which they acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
MP Malungani is the Chairman of Peu.
82 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Directors interest in preference shares as at 31 March 2009 Name Investec plc Investec Limited Investec Bank Limited 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 Executive directors 1 S Koseff 21 198 101 198 3 000 3 000 4 000 4 000 Non-executive directors HS Herman - - - - 1 135 1 135 Notes: The market price of an Investec plc preference share as at 31 March 2009 was R34.00 2008: R98.00.
The market price of an Investec Limited preference share as at 31 March 2009 was R75.80 2008: R84.40.
The market price of an Investec Bank Limited preference share as at 31 March 2009 was R82.00 2008: R91.00.
1 S Koseff bought the following preference shares during the year under review: - 10 757 shares on 19 December 2008 at R31.46 per share.
Directors attributable interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited shares through a leveraged equity plan called Fintique II as at 31 March 2009 Name Entitlement to Entitlement to Investec plc shares Investec Limited shares 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 2008 2009 2008 2009 Executive directors S Koseff 918 420 - 539 395 - GR Burger 629 515 - 369 715 - A Tapnack - 168 340 - Non-executive directors HS Herman 451 045 - 264 900 - Total number 1 998 980 - 1 342 350 - Notes: Fintique II was constituted on 31 July 1996 via a special purpose vehicle SPV, initially available to 235 selected executives, senior managers and directors.
Participants acquired units in the SPV, where the underlying instruments were compulsory convertible debentures, which convert into 4 430 Investec shares for every 1 000 units in Fintique II.
The scheme was funded through cash contributions from participants and the upfront sale of the income stream on the debentures and the right to the redemption proceeds.
A total of 4.0 million units were issued in terms of the scheme, converting into approximately 17.8 million shares.
The Fintique II scheme matured on 31 July 2008 and all of the unitholders in the scheme disposed of their respective units and settled their obligations in terms of the scheme.
All the shares to which the directors were entitled in terms of the scheme were taken up at a price of R2.32 per share, based on the valuation of the scheme as at 30 June 2008.
Following the disposal of their respective Fintique II units on 30 June 2008, S Koseff received 1 457 815 Investec Limited shares, GR Burger received 999 230 Investec Limited shares, A Tapnack received 155 502 Investec Limited shares and HS Herman received 715 945 Investec Limited shares.
These share holdings are now disclosed as part of the directors aggregate bene cial and non-bene cial shareholdings in Investec Limited as re ected on page 97.
The Fintique II scheme has been terminated as at 31 March 2009.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 83 Remuneration Report Directors interest in options as at 31 March 2009 Investec plc shares Name Date of Exercise Number of Exercised Options Balance at Market Gross Period exercisable grant price Investec during the granted 31 March price at gains made 1 plc shares year lapsed 2009 date of on date of 1 1 at 1 April during the exercise exercise 2008 year Executive directors B Kantor 20 Dec 1.59 15 130 5 675 - 9 455 2.69 6 243 Vesting scale in terms 2002 of the scheme rules.
Vesting ends 20 Mar 2012 Notes: No new grants were made to executive directors during the financial year.
The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2009 was 2.92 2008: 3.39, ranging from a low of 1.69 to a high of 4.21 during the financial year.
A total of 444.9 million Investec plc shares were in issue as at 31 March 2009.
1 Details with respect to options exercised: B Kantor exercised his options and bought 5 675 Investec plc shares on 22 December 2008, when the share price was 2.69 per share.
The performance conditions with respect to these options were met.
A Tapnack exercised his options and sold 5 675 Investec plc shares on 3 February 2009, when the share price was 2.30 per share.
General comments: B Kantors and A Tapnacks options were granted in terms of the Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002.
The options granted on 20 December 2002 were made for no consideration.
The options granted on 20 December 2002 have certain performance conditions attached which require growth in headline earnings per share over the relevant option period to equal or exceed the UK RPI plus 3% compounded annually over the same period.
Investec Limited shares The directors do not have any interest in options over Investec Limited shares.
84 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Directors interest in the Share Matching Plan 2005 as at 31 March 2009 Name Date of Exercise Number of Investec plc Period exercisable grant price shares 1 April 31 March 2008 2009 Executive directors S Koseff 21 Nov 05 0.00 750 000 750 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 B Kantor 21 Nov 05 0.00 750 000 750 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 GR Burger 21 Nov 05 0.00 600 000 600 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 25 Jun 07 0.00 150 000 150 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 25 June 2011 and 25% on 25 June 2012 A Tapnack 21 Nov 05 0.00 200 000 200 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 Notes: This plan was approved by shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting held on 14 November 2005.
The plan is considered essential in order to improve our long-term prospects for recruitment and retention of key individuals.
The plan also provides further alignment of the interests of shareholders and management as the committee believes that a signi cant element of remuneration should be linked to our ability to deliver sustainable results to shareholders, and at the same time enable management to share in these results.
Further details on the plan are available on our website.
The performance conditions in terms of this plan have been met in respect of the November 2005 awards and the directors will be entitled to 75% of the matching award on 30 June 2009.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 85 Remuneration Report Summary: total interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited ordinary shares, options and long-term incentive awards as at 31 March 2009 Investec plc Name Benefi cially Options Share Balance at Balance at and nonMatching 31 March 31 March benefi cially Plan 2009 2008 held Executive directors S Koseff 4 986 633 - 750 000 5 736 633 6 555 053 B Kantor 48 525 9 455 750 000 807 980 766 630 GR Burger 2132 135 - 750 000 2 882 135 3 909 610 A Tapnack - 9 455 200 000 209 455 304 030 Total number 7 167 293 18 910 2 450 000 9 636 203 11 535 323 Investec Limited Name Benefi cially Options Share Balance at Balance at and nonMatching 31 March 31 March benefi cially Plan 2009 2008 held Executive directors S Koseff 1 899 330 - - 1 899 330 980 910 B Kantor 5 301 000 - - 5 301 000 5 001 000 GR Burger 1 037 076 - - 1 037 076 869 600 A Tapnack 340 607 - - 340 607 353 445 Total number 8 578 013 - - 8 578 013 7 204 955 Notes: The total number of Investec plc and Investec Limited shares in issue as at 31 March 2009 was 444.9 million and 268.3 million, respectively.
The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2009 was R38.86 2008: R57.43, ranging from a low of R27.20 to a high of R63.19 during the financial year.
86 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Remuneration Report Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility Taking stock In a year of unprecedented distress within the global financial services industry, particularly the banks, the understanding of the word sustainability frequently narrowed to that of survival.
As markets catapulted from one crisis to the next, banks everywhere hunkered down and tried to navigate through the ever-changing environment.
As the global banking crisis unfolded, known banking brands collapsed, the international investment banking model was wiped out, government intervention became the norm, heightened industry regulation became a distinct probability, massive bailout packages were required to ensure the ongoing viability of the international banking system and there was substantive talk around the need for a complete overhaul of the world economys financial architecture.
Although the rapidly changing dynamics were mainly con ned to those banks operating in the first world, the banking industry everywhere felt the effect of a dramatic squeeze in liquidity and near-paralysis from anxieties pertaining to banking counterparty risk.
First-round effects of the global financial crisis gave rise to second-round effects of the global economic crisis where banks were once again exposed to credit defaults, bad debts and the impairments associated with a world economy in reverse.
As the period closed, banks everywhere were reeling from the blows of the previous 18 months and companies the world over were coming to terms with the toughest economic conditions in decades.
Amid expectations that global sub-par economic growth would persist into an extended period, the crisis began to surface an attempt by some to fide-bunk the merits of so-called corporate social responsibility.
Risks were high that the previous mainstreaming of broader sustainability considerations within business would be rolled back, on the proposition that all that was likely to count over the short-to-medium term was sheer survival, or sustainability in the financial sense alone.
However, the tenets that underpin broader sustainability may actually have been strengthened by the events of the recent past.
Since an excessive focus on the short-term may have been at the root cause of some developments that gave rise to the credit crisis in the first place, the case for the triple bottom line undoubtedly bene ted from ensuing interrogation of the long-held market view of shareholder value maximisation.
That is, the maximisation of shareholder value can no longer be seen as the sole guiding principle for corporate conduct.
At a time when the sustainability of the international banking system has been in question, banks can be forgiven for an unrelenting focus on their individual ability to survive.
Banks have had to right themselves at a time when public trust in business in general, and banks in particular, is very low.
Banks have had to face the glare of intense media and stakeholder scrutiny and the popular perception that, banks themselves were partly responsible for the crisis.
Stakeholders have since been vociferous in their condemnation of management, their criticism of prior banking practices and their contempt for the notion that too big to fail has had consequences for everyone except the banking industry itself.
Although the short-term immediacy of the credit crisis seems to be over, courtesy of the extensive stimulatory support measures in place by the global authorities, banks still have a number of much longer-term issues with which to contend.
Whether in terms of the need to ride out the vagaries of a still very tough economic cycle, to re-establish the essence of their business models, to restore pro tability levels, to ensure appropriate levels of capital adequacy or to re-build levels of public trust, reputational considerations within the industry are of uppermost importance.
As banks everywhere seek to take the necessary steps to restore the perceived integrity of the industry, and to realign broad stakeholder interests with those of shareholders, they will not have the luxury of doing so out of the line of public sight.
Investec remains mindful of its broad obligations to society and all stakeholders.
This is nothing new and has not merely been prompted by recent events.
Investec has long identi ed, and acted on, its desire to do the right thing and be an effective corporate citizen.
However, in keeping with its business model of highly autonomous and independent business units, supported by a strong centre, Investec has chosen not to be prescriptive in this regard.
As the different geographies have different operating environments, with differing areas of emphasis, we have chosen to give our geographies and business units the latitude to determine for themselves what this means, and to pursue accordingly.
For South Africa, being a good corporate citizen, in addition to sustaining a long history of financial success, means embracing the ongoing dynamics of a transforming country, bringing about a more representative workforce and using the resources available within the social investment space to address the countrys recognised backlog of societal ills.
More recently, it has also meant trying to come to grips with climate change considerations in a country where social requirements albeit not mutually exclusive are often seen to be more pressing.
90 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Our Business Responsibility Outside of the South African business, the pursuit of an active corporate citizenship role within Investec is perhaps less well advanced.
This, for the most part, has re ected the relative newness of our other businesses and their need to grow, build critical mass and ensure the successful integration of acquired businesses.
Over and above the imperative to sustain financial performance, extend brand franchise and attain optimal scale, these businesses have nonetheless sought to support the priorities identi ed within respective national policy agendas, of which climate change is an obvious example in both the UK and Australia.
In view of the emphasis placed on culture and values within Investec, invariably seen to be the DNA and lifeblood of the organisation, our sustainability approach is seen as a logical extension of who we are and how we go about things.
Developments during the year As Investecs annual financial results attest, the group proved both resilient and adept at withstanding the pressures that emanated both globally and in each of its geographies throughout the period.
While there was unrelenting focus on the financial dimension of our sustainability endeavours during the period, our nonfinancial activities remained top of mind, albeit less aggressively driven in view of prevailing external circumstances.
Sustainability developments during the period include: a complete review and strategic re-positioning of our social investment activities the completion or near-completion of a carbon-footprinting exercise across all principal geographies the aggressive pursuit of a country-wide energy-saving campaign in South Africa the launch of a group-wide leadership development trajectory the formal creation of an elected and representative Employment Equity Forum in South Africa further UK audits on the environmental front an initial foray into the realm of alternative technology low-cost housing in South Africa the evolution of a more deeply engrained understanding of sustainability considerations within our risk environment and processes the advent of greater energy ef ciency in the new extension to our head of ce building in Johannesburg.
Over and above our chosen areas of emphasis during the period, we maintained our presence in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the JSE-SRI Index and, post the period close, were admitted to the UKs FTSE4Good Index.
We enjoyed increased UK and European stakeholder and analyst interest in Investecs OBR activities.
Looking ahead A less volatile but still generally unaccommodating period can be expected.
Continued uncertainty about the timing, extent and durability of international economic recovery means that the possibility of renewed market dislocation remains, with attendant consequences for overall activity levels.
The prospect of political change in certain areas may herald changes on national policy agendas while scheduled international climate change negotiations could have far reaching implications for environmental policy.
In the face of widespread uncertainty, from many different sources, a near all-embracing focus on the financial dimensions of sustainability is expected to persist.
However, seen as a cyclical, not structural, phenomenon, this represents no more than a shift in the balance of emphasis, all the while within the realm of the triple bottom line.
The notion of corporate social responsibility is not in terminal decline.
Rather, it nds itself in remission, pending the return of a more conducive business operating environment.
For Investec, having weathered what seems to have been the worst of the financial inclemency, the group seems well poised, by virtue of its solid capital status and liquidity realities, to capitalise on the commercial opportunities that a slowly recovering international economy will provide.
A fast-changing competitive landscape will elicit additional bene ts in select areas.
In terms of our nonfinancial endeavours, we will continue to make incremental advances on many fronts.
The year ahead is unlikely to elicit much in the way of dramatic change, with anticipated steady progress in respect of ongoing projects and previously earmarked objectives.
As fundamental inputs to the pro t dimension of our activities, the disciplines of corporate governance and risk management, tried and tested during the most recent crisis and having proved to serve Investec extremely well, are well entrenched at Investec.
Heightened global attention on these speci c aspects of the triple bottom line has increased our desire to ensure outright consistency with international best practise and, where appropriate, to ne tune our processes.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 91 Our Business Responsibility The people dimension of our OBR activities will continue to revolve, internally, around the successful recruitment, development, diversity and retention of talent within our employee base and, externally, around the developmental and goal-oriented aspects of our varying social investment activities.
Similarly, within the planet dimension of our OBR activities, internal focus will be on continued behavioural change so as to reduce the size of our overall environmental footprint while our external focus will remain on the selective nancing of alternative technologies.
In the same way that our banking activities are guided by a strong sense of commercial know-how, our sustainability activities are guided by the will to do what makes sense to the organisation.
Reputation remains key and a nely-honed sensitivity to reputational risk management across all our businesses will continue to inform our sustainability approach and drive it in the appropriate manner.
In so doing, we seek to balance, in so far as possible, our obligations to all stakeholders.
Detail pertaining to Investecs OBR activities can be accessed on www.
com en za #home our business responsibility.
Our overall approach is based on the recognition that we are a niched and specialist bank, driven by our culture and values, and guided by our in-house philosophy, which states: In pursuit of sustainable profi ts, we seek to be a positive infl uence in all our business activities, in each of the societies within which we operate.
We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education, recognising the true value of diversity and addressing the challenge posed by climate change and our use of natural resources.
92 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Our Business Responsibility Additional information Shareholder analysis We have implemented a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in terms of which we have primary listings both in Johannesburg and London.
Investec plc which houses the majority of our non-Southern African businesses was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 29 July 2002.
Investec plc also has a secondary listing on the JSE Limited JSE.
Investec Limited which houses our Southern African and Mauritius operations has been listed in South Africa since 1986.
As at 31 March 2009 Investec plc and Investec Limited had 444.9 million and 268.3 million ordinary shares in issue, respectively.
The shareholding held by MP Malungani non-executive director of Investec is shown under the holding of PEU INL Investment 1 Pty Ltd 96 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Shareholder analysis Largest shareholders as at 31 March 2009 In accordance with the terms provided for in Section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and Section 140A of the South African Companies Act 1973 the group has conducted investigations into the registered holders of its ordinary shares including nominee and asset management companies and the results are as disclosed below.
Investec plc Shareholder analysis by manager group Number of % shares holding 1 PIC ZA 37 643 896 8.5 2 Old Mutual Asset Managers ZA 33 107 398 7.4 3 Investec Securities Pty Limited ZA 24 363 100 5.5 4 Investec Staff Share Schemes ZA and UK 22 706 079 5.1 5 Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd UK 18 356 041 4.1 6 RMB Asset Management ZA 18 116 305 4.1 7 J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK 15 411 731 3.5 8 Coronation Fund Managers ZA 14 108 806 3.2 9 Polaris Capital Pty Limited ZA 13 556 175 3.0 10 Schroder Investments UK 10 360 243 2.3 Cumulative total 207 729 774 46.7 The top 10 shareholders account for 46.7% of the total shareholding in Investec plc.
This information is based on a threshold of 20 000 shares.
Some major fund managers hold additional shares below this, which may cause the above gures to be marginally understated.
Investec Limited Shareholder analysis by manager group Number of % shares holding 1 PIC ZA 40 439 405 15.1 2 Investec Staff Share Schemes ZA 36 340 281 13.5 3 Old Mutual Asset Managers ZA 18 360 474 6.8 4 Tiso INL Investments Pty Ltd ZA 14 000 000 5.2 5 Entrepreneurial Development Trust ZA 14 000 000 5.2 6 PEU INL Investment 1 Pty Ltd ZA 13 055 555 4.9 7 Coronation Fund Managers ZA 9 686 030 3.6 8 Investec Securities Pty Limited ZA 8 320 456 3.1 9 STANLIB Asset Management ZA 7 512 249 2.8 10 Barclays Global Investors US and UK 7 215 071 2.7 Cumulative total 168 929 521 62.9 The top 10 shareholders account for 62.9% of the total shareholding in Investec Limited.
Historical information has been restated for comparative purposes 3 The LSE only include the shares in issue for Investec plc i. e. 444.9 million, in calculating market capitalisation, as Investec Limited is not incorporated in the UK 4 Calculations are based on the groups consolidated earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items and dividends per share as prepared in accordance with IFRS and denominated in Pounds Sterling 5 The JSE have agreed to use the total number of shares in issue for the combined group, comprising Investec Limited and Investec plc, in calculating market capitalisation i. e. a total of 713.2 million shares in issue 98 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Operational structure The diagram below depicts our DLC structure and our main operating subsidiaries.
Investec PLC Investec Limited LSE primary listing Sharing agreement JSE primary listing JSE secondary listing Non-Southern African Southern African operations operations Investec Kensington Investec Bank Investec Asset Investec Bank Investec Investec Asset Management Group plc Limited Securities Property plc Management Holdings Pty Limited Limited Limited Limited Investec Holdings Investec Bank Reichmans Australia Mauritius Limited Limited Limited Investec Bank Australia Limited Note: All shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the subsidiaries are 100%, unless otherwise stated.
The directorate of the main operating entities and subsidiaries are indicated on the pages that follow.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 99 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Executive directors Name Age at Qualifi cations Current directorships Investec committee Brief biography 31 March membership 2009 Chief Executive Offi cer The Bidvest Group Board Risk and Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He has Stephen Koseff 57 BCom CA SA Limited, Rensburg Capital Committee had diverse experience within Investec H Dip BDP MBA Sheppards plc and a and DLC Capital as Chief Accounting Of cer and General number of Investec Committee Manager of Banking, Treasury and subsidiaries Merchant Banking.
Managing Director Bernard Kantor 59 CTA Phumelela Gaming Board Risk and Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He has and Leisure Limited, Capital Committee had varied experience within Investec Rensburg Sheppards and DLC Capital as a Manager of the Trading division, plc and a number of Committee Marketing Manager and Chief Operating Investec subsidiaries Of cer.
Group Risk and Finance Director Glynn R Burger 52 BAcc CA SA Investec Bank Limited Board Risk and Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His H Dip BDP MBL and a number of Capital Committee positions within Investec have included Investec subsidiaries and DLC Capital Chief Accounting Of cer, Group Risk Committee Manager and Joint Managing Director for South Africa.
Alan Tapnack 62 BCom CA SA Investec Bank plc Board Risk and Alan is a former partner of and most of Investec Capital Committee PriceWaterhouse and former Managing plcs subsidiaries and DLC Capital Director of Grey Phillips Bunton Mundell Committee and Blake, a leading South African marketing services group.
Alan joined Investec in 1991 and has held the positions of Chief Finance Of cer and Chief Executive Of cer of Investec Bank plc and Chief Executive Of cer of Investecs UK operations.
100 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifi cations Current directorships Investec committee Brief biography 31 March membership 2009 Nonexecutive Chairman Growthpoint DLC Nominations Hugh practised as an attorney before Hugh S 68 BA LLB LLD hc Properties Limited, and Directors Affairs joining Pick n Pay, a leading South Herman Pick n Pay Holdings Committee African retail group, where he became Limited, Pick n Pay Managing Director.
Stores Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries Sam E 70 FCA CA SA Investec Bank DLC Audit Sam is a former international partner Abrahams Limited, Foschini Committee, Investec and South African Managing Partner of Limited and Super plc Audit Committee, Arthur Andersen.
Group Limited Investec Limited Audit Committee, DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee, Board Risk and Capital Committee and DLC Capital Committee George FO 60 BSc Econ FCIS Investec Bank plc DLC Audit George is a former Head of Private Alford FIPD MSI Committee, Investec Banking and Personnel at Kleinwort plc Audit Committee, Benson Group and was a senior advisor Investec Limited to the UK Financial Services Authority.
Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Board Risk and Capital Committee Cheryl A 50 BA Law B Ed fide Beers - Cheryl acted as the South African High Carolus Consolidated Mines Commissioner to London between 1998 Limited, The IQ to 2001 and was Chief Executive Of cer Business Group of South African Tourism.
Pty Limited, Fenner Conveyor Belting South Africa Pty Limited, Ponahalo Capital Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd and Executive Chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings Pty Limited Haruko Fukuda 62 MA Cantab DSc Director of - Haruko was previously Chief Executive OBE Aberdeen Asian Of cer of the World Gold Council, and Smaller Companies senior advisor at Lazard.
She is former Investment Trust vice Chairman of Nikko Europe plc and PLC.
She is an a partner of James Capel & Co and adviser to Metro a former director of AB Volvo and of AG and to Binani Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust Industries of India plc.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 101 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifi cations Current directorships Investec committee Brief biography 31 March membership 2009 Geoffrey MT 59 MA Hons Jardine Lloyd DLC Audit Geoffrey is a former Managing Partner Howe Thompson Group Committee, Investec of Clifford Chance LLP and was Director plc Chairman and plc Audit Committee, and Group General Counsel of Robert Nationwide Building Investec Limited Fleming Holdings Ltd.
He is also a Society Chairman Audit Committee, former Chairman of Railtrack Group plc.
Remuneration Committee and Board Risk and Capital Committee Ian R Kantor 62 BSc Eng MBA Insinger fide Beaufort - Former Chief Executive of Investec Holdings SA in Limited.
which Investec holds a 9.2% interest, Bank Insinger fide Beaufort NV where he is Chairman of the management board Senior independent director Sir Chips 69 - Investec Bank plc, DLC Audit Sir Chips is former Chairman of Keswick fide Beers SA, Arsenal Committee, Investec Hambros Bank Limited and Hambros Holdings Plc and plc Audit Committee, PLC and a former director of Anglo Arsenal Football Club Investec Limited American plc.
He was on the Court of Plc Audit Committee, the Bank of England.
Remuneration Committee, DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee and Board Risk and Capital Committee M Peter 51 BCom MAP LDP Super Group Board Risk and Peter is Chairman and founder of Peu Malungani Limited Chairman, Capital Committee Group Pty Limited.
Phumelela Gaming and Leisure Limited Chairman, Investec Bank Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited, Peu Group Pty Limited and a number of Peu subsidiaries Sir David 65 BSc Hons FIA Pippbrook Limited, DLC Audit Sir David was previously Chief Executive Prosser Epsom Downs Committee, Investec of Legal & General Group PLC, joining Racecourse Limited plc Audit Committee Legal & General in 1988 as Group and The Royal and Investec Limited Director Investments becoming Deputy Automobile Club Audit Committee Chief Executive in January 1991 and Limited Group Executive in September 1991.
Sir David was previously Chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council.
102 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifi cations Current directorships Investec committee Brief biography 31 March membership 2009 Peter RS 64 CA SA Investec Bank DLC Audit Peter was the former Managing Director Thomas Limited, various Committee, Investec of The Unisec Group Limited.
Investec companies plc Audit Committee, and JCI Limited Investec Limited Audit Committee, Board Risk and Capital Committee and DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee.
Peter is the director responsible for our Sustainability process.
Fani Titi 46 BSc Hons MA Investec Bank Limited Board Risk and Fani is Chairman of Investec Bank MBA Chairman, AECI Capital Committee Limited and was the former Chairman of Limited and Investec and DLC Nominations Tiso Group Limited.
Asset Management and Directors Affairs Holdings Pty Ltd Committee Notes: The dates on which the directors were appointed to the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited can be found on page 64.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 103 Directorate Investec Bank Limited Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Fani Titi 46 Hugh S Herman 68 BSc Hons MA MBA BA LLB LLD hc Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Chairman David M Lawrence 58 Hendrik J du Toit 47 BA Econ Hons MCom BCom Law BCom Hons cum laude MCom cum laude MPhil Deputy Chairman Cambridge Chief Executive Of cer Sam E Abrahams 70 FCA CA SA Cheryl A Carolus 50 BA Law B Ed Glynn R Burger 52 BAcc CA SA H Dip BDP MBL Gail Daniel 41 BA Hons MBA Richard MW Dunne 60 CA SA Domenico Ferrini 40 BCom Bernard Kantor 59 CTA Jeremy B Gardiner 43 BCom Hons Stephen Koseff 57 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA Noluthando P Gosa 46 BA Hons MBA M Peter Malungani 51 BCom MAP LDP John C Green 43 BCom LLB Karl-Bart XT Socikwa 40 BCom LLB MAP Bernard Kantor 59 CTA Bradley Tapnack 62 BCom CA SA Thabo Khojane 36 BA Econ Hons BSc Eng Peter R S Thomas 64 CA SA Stephen Koseff 57 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA C Busi Tshili 45 CA SA M Peter Malungani 51 BCom MAP LDP Appointed with effect from 2 June 2008 Kim M McFarland 44 BAcc BCom CA SA MBA John T McNab 42 BEng MEng CFA Bradley Tapnack 62 BCom CA SA Fani Titi 46 BSc Hons MA MBA Appointed with effect from 1 April 2008 104 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Directorate Investec Securities Limited Investec Property Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Andrew WJ Leith 49 Stephen Koseff 57 BCom CA SA BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA Chairman Chairman Sam E Abrahams 70 Glynn R Burger 52 FCA CA SA BAcc CA SA H Dip BDP MBL Reginald S Berkowitz 72 Angelique N Du Hecquet fide Rauville 34 Natal Law Certi cate BSSc FSA FSB Henry E Blumenthal 49 Dave AJ Donald 58 BCom BAcc CA SA BCom CA SA H Dip Tax Law Kevin Brady 42 Sam Hackner 53 BA Hons BCom Hons CA SA Joubert D Hay 43 Sam R Leon 59 BCom Hons Acc CA SA LLB London Stephen Koseff 57 Robin Magid 36 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA BCom Kevin P McKenna 42 David M Nurek 59 BCom BAcc CA SA Dip Law Dip Advanced Company Law JKC Whelan 45 Ronnie Sevitz 65 CA Irish H Dip Tax Investec Bank Mauritius Investec Bank plc Limited A subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited A subsidiary of Investec plc David M Lawrence 58 Hugh S Herman 68 BA Econ Hons MCom BA LLB LLD hc Chairman Non-Executive Chairman Pierre fide Chasteigner du Mee 56 Bradley Fried 43 ACEA FBIM FMAAT BCom CA SA MBA Chief Executive Of cer Angelique A Desvaux fide Marigny 33 LLB, Barrister-at-Law George F O Alford 60 Maitrise en Droit Universit fide Paris I-Panthon BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI - Sorbonne Bernard Kantor 59 Hugh S Herman 68 CTA BA LLB LLD hc Ian R Kantor 62 Craig C McKenzie 48 BSc Eng MBA BSc MSc CFA Sir Chips Keswick 69 Peter RS Thomas 64 CA SA Stephen Koseff 57 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA David M van der Walt 44 BCom Hons CA SA Alan Tapnack 62 BCom CA SA Resigned on 17 July 2008 Resigned on 13 February 2009 David M van der Walt 44 BCom Hons CA SA Ian R Wohlman 54 ACIB 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 105 Directorate Investec Asset Management Investec Bank Australia Limited Limited A subsidiary of Investec plc A subsidiary of Investec Bank plc Hugh S Herman 68 David M Gonski 55 BA LLB LLD hc BCom LLB Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Chairman Hendrik J du Toit 47 Geoffrey Levy AO 50 BCom Law BCom Hons cum laude BCom LLB FFIN M Com cum laude MPhil Cambridge Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Brian M Schwartz 56 David J Aird 42 FCA BA Hons Chief Executive Of cer Domenico Ferrini 40 Alan H Chonowitz 54 BCom BAcc MCom CA Howard E Flight 60 Stephen Koseff 57 MA MBA BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA Luc JJJ van Hoof 56 Richard A Longes 63 BA LLB MBA Bernard Kantor 59 CTA Robert C Mansfi eld AO 57 BCom FCPA Stephen Koseff 57 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA John W Murphy 56 BCom MCom ACA FCPA Kim M McFarland 44 BAcc BCom CA SA MBA Kathryn Spargo 57 BA LLB Hons FAICD Mark I Samuelson 44 BCom CFA Bradley Tapnack 62 BCom CA SA Philip GS Saunders 51 MA Hons Peter RS Thomas 64 CA SA Bradley Tapnack 62 BCom CA SA Resigned with effect from 31 March 2009.
David Clarke was appointed as Chief Executive Of cer with effect from 1 June 2009.
106 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Additional information Financial statements Summarised Directors Report Extended business review We are an international, specialist banking group that provides a diverse range of financial products and services to a niche client base in three principal markets: the UK, South Africa and Australia, as well as certain other markets.
We are organised into five principal business divisions: Private Client Activities, Capital Markets, Investment Banking, Asset Management and Property Activities.
In addition, our head of ce provides certain group-wide integrating functions such as Risk Management, Information Technology, Finance, Investor Relations, Marketing, Human Resources and Organisational Development.
It is also responsible for our central funding as well as other activities, such as trade finance.
The Operating Financial Review on pages 9 to 28 provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read in conjunction with the sections on pages 31 to 106 which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
The Directors Report deals with the requirements of the combined consolidated Investec group, comprising the legal entities Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Authorised and issued share capital Investec plc and Investec Limited Details of the share capital are set out in note 38 to the Investec groups 2009 annual financial statements.
Investec plc During the year the following shares were issued: 854 869 ordinary shares on 23 May 2008 at 256 pence per share.
1 109 184 special converting shares on 23 May 2008 at par.
9 300 000 special converting shares on 27 June 2008 at par.
17 869 970 special converting shares on 1 August 2008 at par.
1 147 258 special converting shares on 21 November 2008 at par.
762 870 ordinary shares on 21 November 2008 at 206 pence per share.
4 422 478 special converting shares on 20 March 2009 at par.
175 053 special converting shares on 31 March 2009 at par.
10 000 000 ordinary shares on 31 March 2009 at 279 pence per share.
10 000 000 ordinary shares on 31 March 2009 at 268 pence per share.
Investec Limited During the year the following shares were issued: Allotment and issue on 23 May 2008 of 1 109 184 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each at a premium of R35.3398 per share total issue price of R35.34 per share.
Allotment and issue on 23 May 2008 of 854 869 special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each.
Conversion of 880 000 Series 1 debentures to 4 400 000 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each issued at a premium of R34.9998 per share total issue price of R35.00 per share.
Conversion of 980 000 Series 2 debentures to 4 900 000 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each issued at a premium of R45.9998 per share total issue price of R46.00 per share.
Allotment on 31 July 2008 and issue on 1 August 2008 of 17 869 970 ordinary shares of R0.0002 plus a premium of R15.7998 per share total issue price of R15.80 per share.
Allotment and issue on 21 November 2008 of 1 147 258 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each at a premium of R28.5698 per share total issue price of R28.57 per share.
Allotment and issue on 21 November 2008 of 762 870 special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each.
Allotment and issue on 20 March 2009 of 4 422 478 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each at a premium of R39.9998 total issue price of R40.00 per share.
Allotment and issue on 30 March 2009 of 175 053 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each at a premium of R38.9998 total issue price of R39.00 per share.
Allotment and issue on 31 March 2009 of 20 000 000 special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each.
Financial results The combined results of Investec plc and Investec Limited are set out in the financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended 31 March 2009.
110 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Summarised Directors Report Ordinary dividends Investec plc An interim dividend was declared to shareholders as follows: 8.0 pence per ordinary share to non-South African resident shareholders 2008: 11.5 pence registered on 12 December 2008. to South African resident shareholders registered on 12 December 2008, a dividend paid by Investec Limited on the SA DAS share, equivalent to 128.0 cents per ordinary share and 8.0 pence per ordinary share paid by Investec plc.
The dividends were paid on 12 December 2008.
The directors have proposed a final dividend to shareholders registered on 31 July 2009, which is subject to the approval of the members of Investec plc at the Annual General Meeting which is scheduled to take place on 13 August 2009 and, if approved, will be paid on 18 August 2009 as follows: 5.0 pence per ordinary share to non-South African resident shareholders 2008: 13.5 pence registered on 31 July 2009. to South African resident shareholders registered on 31 July 2009, a dividend paid by Investec Limited on the SA DAS share, equivalent to 66.0 cents per ordinary share and 5.0 pence per ordinary share paid by Investec plc.
Shareholders in Investec plc will receive a distribution of 5.0 pence 2008: 13.5 pence per ordinary share.
Investec Limited An interim dividend of 128.0 cents per ordinary share 2008: 159.5 cents was declared to shareholders registered on 12 December 2008 and was paid on 19 December 2008.
The directors have proposed a final dividend of 66.0 cents per ordinary share 2008: 202.0 cents to shareholders registered on 31 July 2009 to be paid on 18 August 2009.
The final dividend is subject to the approval of members of Investec Limited at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 13 August 2009.
Preference dividends Investec plc Perpetual preference shares Preference dividend number 5 for the period 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2008, amounting to 30.14 pence per share, was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 28 November 2008 and was paid on 9 December 2008.
Preference dividend number 6 for the period 1 October 2008 to 31 March 2009, amounting to 16.03 pence per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 19 June 2009 and will be paid on 2 July 2009.
Preferred securities The fourth annual distribution, xed at 7.075 per cent, on the 200 million xed oating rate, guaranteed, non-voting, non-cumulative perpetual preferred callable securities issued by Investec Tier 1 UK LP on 24 June 2005, is due on 24 June 2009 and will be paid on 24 June 2009.
Investec Limited Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares Preference dividend number 8 for the period 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2008 amounting to 536.03 cents per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 28 November 2008 and was paid on 9 December 2008.
Preference dividend number 9 for the period 1 October 2008 to 31 March 2009 amounting to 518.77 cents per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 19 June 2009 and will be paid on 2 July 2009.
Redeemable cumulative preference shares Dividends amounting to R42 071 233 were paid on the redeemable cumulative preference shares.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 111 Summarised Directors Report Directors and secretaries Details of directors and secretaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited are re ected on pages 100 to 103 and at the beginning of this report.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, SE Abrahams, HS Herman, IR Kantor, S Koseff, Sir David Prosser and PRS Thomas, retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting but, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors and their interests Directors shareholdings and options to acquire shares are set out on pages 82 to 86.
The register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to acquire shares.
Share incentive trusts Details regarding options granted during the year are set out on pages 131 and 132.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprising non-executive directors meets regularly with senior management, the external auditors, Operational Risk, Internal Audit, Group Compliance and the Finance division, to consider the nature and scope of the audit reviews and the effectiveness of our risk and control systems.
Further details on the role and responsibility of the Audit Committee can be found in the Investec groups 2009 Annual Report.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc. have indicated their willingness to continue in of ce as auditors of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting scheduled to take place on 13 August 2009.
Contracts Refer to page 73 for details of contracts with directors.
Subsidiary and associated companies Details of principal subsidiary and associated companies can be found in the Investec groups 2009 Annual Report.
Major shareholders The largest shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited are re ected on page 97.
Special resolutions Investec plc At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 August 2008, special resolutions were passed in terms of which: A renewable authority was granted to Investec plc to acquire its own shares in terms of Section 166 of the Companies Act, 1985.
Authority to increase the number of authorised special converting shares of 0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec plc to 300 000 000.
Amendments to the Articles of Association to re ect provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that are already in force since 1 October 2008.
112 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Summarised Directors Report Investec Limited At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 August 2008, the following special resolutions were passed in terms of which: A renewable authority was granted to Investec Limited and its subsidiaries to acquire its own ordinary and non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares in terms of Section 85 and 89 of the South African Companies Act No 61 of 1973.
The authorised ordinary share capital has increased to 300 000 000 three hundred million by the creation of 22 500 000 twenty two million five hundred thousand new ordinary shares of R0.0002 each.
An amendment was made to the Memorandum of Association by updating the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
An amendment was made to the Articles of Association by inserting a new Article 72A to allow for Multiple Proxies.
An amendment was made to the Articles of Association by inserting a new Article 57.2 a - Demand for a poll.
An amendment was made to the Articles of Association by inserting a new Article 75 - Corporate Representation.
An amendment was made to the Articles of Association by inserting a new Article 72 - Timing for the deposit of form of proxy.
Replacement of the old Articles of Association of Investec Limited by adopting the new Articles of Association.
Accounting policies and disclosure Accounting policies are set having regard to commercial practice and comply with applicable United Kingdom and South African law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The accounting policies adopted in this abridged report are consistent with Investec groups 2009 Annual Report.
Creditor payment policy The groups standard practice is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers at the time of contract and make payments within the agreed credit terms, subject to satisfactory performance.
Employees Our policy is to recruit and promote on the basis of aptitude and ability, without discrimination of any kind.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always considered bearing in mind the quali cations and abilities of the applicants.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their continued employment.
Our policy is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of our operations, and motivating staff involvement in our performance by means of employee share schemes.
Donations During the year, Investec plc made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 1.4 million and Investec Limited made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 2.2 million.
Environment We are committed to pursuing sound environmental policies in all aspects of our business and seek to encourage and promote good environmental practice among our employees and within the community in which we operate.
Further information on our sustainability practices can be found on pages 89 to 92 and on our website.
Additional information for shareholders Schedule A to the Directors Report is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Association and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006.
David Miller Benita Coetsee Company Secretary Company Secretary Investec plc Investec Limited 15 June 2009 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 113 Directors Responsibility Statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report set out on page 119, is made with a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the combined consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the combined consolidated financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and the net income and cash ows for the year, and other information contained in this report.
To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: The board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal controls and accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error or loss is reduced in a cost effective manner.
These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly fide ned framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties: The groups Internal Audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group Audit Committee, appraises and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the system of internal controls and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business: and The group Audit Committee, together with the Internal Audit department, plays an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satis ed that no material breakdown in the operation of the system of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review.
The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable judgements and estimates on a consistent basis and provides additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
The financial statements of the company and the group have been prepared in accordance with the respective Companies Acts of the United Kingdom and South Africa, comply with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation and speci c enquiries that adequate resources exist to support the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
These financial statements have been prepared on that basis.
It is the responsibility of the independent auditors to report on the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their report to the members of the company and group is set out on page 119 of this report.
As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companies auditors are unaware.
All steps which ought to have been taken as directors have been completed in order to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companies auditors are aware of that information.
Approval of financial statements The directors report and the financial statements of the company and the group, which appear on pages 110 to 112 and pages 120 to 134, were approved by the board of directors on 15 June 2009.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companies website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Of cer Managing Director 15 June 2009 114 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Schedule A to the Directors Report Additional information for shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 August 2009.
Share capital The share capital of Investec plc at 12 June 2009 consists of 560 000 000 plc ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, 1 000 000 plc preference shares of 0.01 each, 100 000 000 non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of 0.01 each, 300 000 000 plc special converting shares of 0.0002 each, the special voting share of 0.001, the UK DAN share of 0.001 and the UK DAS share of 0.001 each class as fide ned in the Articles.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Companies Act 1985, the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001 and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, the approval of shareholders as provided in the Investec plcs articles, and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, Investec plc may purchase, or may enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its own shares of any class, including without limitation any redeemable shares, in any way and at any price whether at par or above or below par.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Investec plc may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of Investec plc, in the opinion of the board, justi es such payment.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Investec plcs shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent.
or more interest in nominal value of the issued shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of Investec plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of Investec plc.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of Investec plc in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 115 Schedule A to the Directors Report Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons or, if there is only one holder, that holder at least holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Where, under the companys share incentive plan, participants are the bene cial owners of the shares, but not the registered owners, the participants are not entitled to exercise any voting rights until the shares are released to the participants.
Under the companys employee trust, the trustee does not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncerti cated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certi cated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with Investec plc send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certi cates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require.
Subject to the Companies Acts and regulations and applicable CREST rules, the directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncerti cated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A number of the companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
plc preference shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the plc preference shares: To receive a non-cumulative preferential dividend out of the pro ts of Investec plc in priority to the plc ordinary shares but pari passu with the perpetual preference shares, on such dates in respect of such periods and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the directors prior to the allotment thereof: The plc preference shares will rank as regards participation in pro ts pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with the perpetual preference shares: On a return of capital, whether or not on a winding up but not on a redemption or purchase of any shares by Investec plc or otherwise, the plc preference shares will rank, pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with any other shares of Investec plc that are expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards participation in the capital, and otherwise in priority to any other class of shares of Investec plc: Investec plc may, at its option, redeem all or any of the plc preference shares for the time being issued and outstanding on the first call date or any dividend payment date thereafter: and Holders of plc preference shares will not be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of Investec plc.
Holders will be entitled to attend and vote at a class meeting of holders of plc preference shares.
116 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Schedule A to the Directors Report Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the perpetual preference shares: Each perpetual preference shares will rank as regards dividends and a repayment of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc prior to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share, the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares.
The perpetual preference shares shall confer on the holders, on a per perpetual preference shares and equal basis, the right on a return of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc of an amount equal to the aggregate of the nominal value and premiums in respect of perpetual preference shares issued divided by the number of perpetual preference shares in issue: Each perpetual preference share may confer upon the holder thereof the right to receive out of the pro ts of Investec plc which it shall determine to distribute, in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares, the preference dividend calculated in accordance with the Articles: The holders of the perpetual preference shares shall be entitled to receive notice of and be present but not to vote, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting of Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect of the perpetual preference shares, unless either or both of the following circumstances prevail as at the date of the meeting: i The preference dividend or any part thereof remains in arrear and unpaid as determined in accordance with Article 150.2 e ii after six months from the due date thereof: and ii A resolution of Investec plc is proposed which resolution directly affects the rights attached to the perpetual preference shares or the interests of the holders thereof, or a resolution of Investec plc is proposed to wind up or in relation to the winding-up of Investec plc or for the reduction of its capital, in which event the preference shareholders shall be entitled to vote only on such resolution Shares required for the DLC structure Investec SSC UK Limited Investec Limited, a UK trust company, specially formed for the purpose of DLC structure, holds the plc special voting share, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share.
These shares can only be transferred to another UK trust company, in limited circumstances.
The plc special voting shares are specially created shares so that shareholders of both Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively vote together as a single decision-making body on matters affecting shareholders of both companies in similar ways, as set out in the Articles.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special converting shares have no voting rights except in relation to a resolution proposing the i variation of the rights attaching to the shares or ii winding-up, and they have no rights to dividends.
The special converting shares are held on trust for the investec limited ordinary shareholders.
Investec plc and Investec Limited have established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Investec plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS share and UK DAN share which enables Investec plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Investec Limited.
This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in the distributable reserves of Investec plc and Investec Limited and or to address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than four and no more than 20 in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc by way of quali cation.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
At each Annual General Meeting held in each year other than 2002 any director who was elected or last re-elected or, if later, deemed in terms of the Articles to have been elected or re-elected a director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire by rotation.
Any further directors, other than those retiring under any other provision in Investec plcs Articles shall retire by rotation to bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of directors in of ce at the date of the notice of meeting.
Investec plc may by ordinary resolution in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Articles appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold of ce only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 117 Schedule A to the Directors Report Powers of directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts, the CREST regulations and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, and any directions given by ordinary or special resolution, the business of Investec plc will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of Investec plc.
The board may exercise all the powers of Investec plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Investec plc or of any third party.
Signi cant agreements: change of control The articles of association of both Investec plc and Investec Limited ensure that a person cannot make an offer for one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either Investec plc or Investec Limited serves written notice on the other at any time after either party becomes a subsidiary of the other party or after both Investec plc and Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a third party the agreements establishing the DLC structure will terminate.
All of Investec plcs share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control and, where applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
118 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Independent Auditors Statement to the members of Investec plc We have examined the groups summary financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 on pages 120 to 122 and 124 to 134, which comprise the combined consolidated income statement, combined consolidated balance sheet, combined consolidated cash ow statement, combined consolidated statement of total recognised income and expenses and selected summarised notes.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised Annual Report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the summarised Annual Report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summarised Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report, of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
We have not considered the effects of any events between the date on which we signed our report on the full annual financial statements 15 June 2009 and the date of this statement.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 15 June 2009 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 119 Combined consolidated income statement For the year to 31 March 2009 2008 000 Interest income 2 596 913 2 083 380 Interest expense 1 902 882 1 499 960 Net interest income 694 031 583 420 Fee and commission income 592 814 614 357 Fee and commission expense 61 292 63 061 Principal transactions 276 521 276 705 Operating income from associates 12 438 12 138 Investment income on assurance activities 74 584 89 593 Premiums and reinsurance recoveries on insurance contracts 18 773 40 849 Other operating loss income 30 240 50 043 Other income 883 598 1 020 624 Claims and reinsurance premiums on insurance business 88 108 120 358 Total operating income net of insurance claims 1 489 521 1 483 686 Impairment losses on loans and advances 256 173 114 185 Operating income 1 233 348 1 369 501 Administrative expenses 803 158 807 500 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 30 102 24 330 Operating profi t before goodwill 400 088 537 671 Goodwill 32 467 62 765 Operating profi t 367 621 474 906 Pro t on disposal of group operations 721 72 855 Profi t before taxation 368 342 547 761 Taxation 81 675 127 249 Profi t after taxation 286 667 420 512 Losses earnings attributable to minority shareholders 5 355 28 954 Earnings attributable to shareholders 292 022 391 558 Earnings per share pence - Basic 38.5 57.7 - Diluted 36.1 54.0 Dividends per share pence - Interim 8.0 11.5 - Final 5.0 13.5 120 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Combined consolidated balance sheet At 31 March 2009 2008 000 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 1 105 089 788 472 Loans and advances to banks 2 018 089 2 153 773 Cash equivalent advances to customers 396 173 504 382 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 569 770 794 153 Trading securities 2 313 845 1 984 580 Derivative financial instruments 1 582 908 1 305 264 Investment securities 1 063 569 1 130 872 Loans and advances to customers 15 390 519 12 011 261 Loans and advances to customers - Kensington warehouse assets 1 897 878 2 034 874 Securitised assets 5 628 347 6 082 975 Interests in associated undertakings 93 494 82 576 Deferred taxation assets 136 757 84 493 Other assets 894 062 882 209 Property and equipment 174 532 141 352 Investment properties 189 156 134 975 Goodwill 255 972 271 932 Intangible assets 34 402 31 506 33 744 562 30 419 649 Financial instruments at fair value through income in respect of - Liabilities to customers 3 358 338 2 878 894 - Assets related to reinsurance contracts 1 768 805 009 37 104 668 34 103 552 Liabilities Deposits by banks 3 781 153 3 489 032 Deposits by banks - Kensington warehouse funding 1 412 961 1 778 438 Derivative financial instruments 1 196 326 881 577 Other trading liabilities 344 561 450 580 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 915 850 382 384 Customer accounts 14 572 568 12 133 120 Debt securities in issue 1 014 871 777 769 Liabilities arising on securitisation 5 203 473 5 760 208 Current taxation liabilities 155 395 132 656 Deferred taxation liabilities 120 135 79 172 Other liabilities 1 264 144 1 279 373 Pension fund liabilities 1 212 - 29 982 649 27 144 309 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 3 352 863 2 862 916 Insurance liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 5 475 15 978 Reinsured liabilities 1 768 805 009 33 342 755 30 828 212 Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt 1 141 376 1 065 321 34 484 131 31 893 533 Equity Called up share capital 190 177 Perpetual preference share capital 151 151 Share premium 1 769 040 1 632 634 Treasury shares 173 068 114 904 Equity portion of convertible debentures - 2 191 Other reserves 42 509 42 057 Pro t and loss account 658 129 433 012 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 2 296 951 1 911 204 Minority interests 323 586 298 815 - Perpetual preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 295 084 251 637 - Minority interests in partially held subsidiaries 28 502 47 178 Total shareholders equity 2 620 537 2 210 019 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 37 104 668 34 103 552 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 121 Combined consolidated statement of total recognised income and expenses For the year to 31 March 2009 2008 000 Pro t after taxation 286 667 420 512 Total gains and losses recognised directly in equity 185 415 110 879 Fair value movements on available for sale assets 4 223 38 907 Fair value movements on cash ow hedges 16 293 - Foreign currency movements 215 653 79 591 Pension fund actuarial losses gains 9 722 7 619 Total recognised income and expenses 472 082 309 633 Total recognised income and expenses attributable to minority shareholders 21 285 17 365 Total recognised income and expenses attributable to ordinary shareholders 376 020 270 327 Total recognised income and expenses attributable to perpetual preferred securities 74 777 21 941 472 082 309 633 Combined consolidated cash fl ow statement For the year to 31 March 2009 2008 000 Operating pro t adjusted for non cash items 726 573 708 295 Taxation paid 95 195 97 845 Decrease increase in operating assets 46 724 655 805 Decrease increase in operating liabilities 323 255 1 080 433 Net cash infl ow from operating activities 354 847 1 035 078 Cash ow on acquisition of group operations - 32 419 Cash ow on disposal of group operations 721 - Cash ow on net acquisition of associates 3 713 1 563 Cash ow on acquisition and disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 60 678 31 660 Net cash outfl ow from investing activities 63 670 65 642 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 143 995 145 926 Dividends paid to other equity holders 47 503 45 702 Proceeds on issue of shares, net of related costs 91 764 - Proceeds on acquisition issue of treasury shares, net of related costs 58 164 8 630 Proceeds on issue of other equity instruments 3 486 6 777 Proceeds from subordinated debt raised 26 737 209 871 Reduction in subordinated debt 57 306 88 543 Net cash outfl ow from fi nancing activities 184 981 54 893 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 226 277 97 791 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 332 473 816 752 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 951 876 1 135 124 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2 284 349 1 951 876 Cash and cash equivalents is fide ned as including: Cash and balances at central banks 1 105 089 788 472 On demand loans and advances to banks 783 087 659 022 Cash equivalent advances to customers 396 173 504 382 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2 284 349 1 951 876 Includes equity instruments issued by subsidiaries Note: Cash and cash equivalents have a maturity pro le of less than three months.
122 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU which comply with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
At 31 March 2009, IFRS standards as endorsed by the EU are identical to current IFRSs applicable to the group.
These abridged condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in terms of the presentation and disclosure requirements of IAS34, Interim Financial Reporting.
The group financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment properties, available for sale investments, derivative financial instruments and financial assets and financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss, and pension fund surpluses and fide cits that have been measured at fair value.
Accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year, except as noted below.
The group has elected to early adopt IFRS 8, Operating Segments as of 1 April 2008.
This standard requires disclosure of information about the groups operating segments on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating operating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments.
Adoption of this standard did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the group.
The group determined that operating segments were the same as the business segments previously identi ed under IAS 14, Segment Reporting.
IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement was amended in October 2008, effective immediately.
Following the amendment, a non-derivative financial asset held for trading may be transferred out of the fair value through pro t and loss category in the following circumstances: In rare circumstances, it is no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term: or It is no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, it would have met the fide nition of a loan and receivable at initial recognition and the group has the intention and ability to hold it for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
The initial value of the financial asset that has been reclassi ed, per the above, is the fair value at the date of reclassi cation.
The group has not applied the initial transitional rules.
This change in accounting policy has had no impact on the prior year financial statements.
Reclassi cations The group had previously included the par value and share premium received on the issue of perpetual preference shares an equity instrument in a single line item within equity on the balance sheet.
The presentation has been amended to include the share premium received within the share premium account.
This change in presentation has no impact on overall equity, assets and liabilities.
Basis of consolidation Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec plc and Investec Limited, that operate under a dual listed companies DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries operate together as a single economic entity, with neither assuming a dominant role and accordingly are reported as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
All subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or over which it has the ability to control either directly or in substance are consolidated from the effective dates of acquisition that is from when control exists and up to the effective dates of loss of control, except entities which are classi ed as non-current assets held for sale.
Subsidiaries classi ed as non-current assets held for sale are consolidated as discontinued operations.
Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group exercises signi cant in uence over operating and financial policies, are treated as associates.
In the group accounts, associates are accounted for using the equity method from the date that signi cant in uence commences until the date that signi cant in uence ceases, except as noted below.
The combined consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of associated undertakings.
The groups interests in associated undertakings are included in the consolidated balance sheet at the groups share of net assets of the associate plus goodwill arising on acquisition, less any impairment recognised.
In circumstances where associates or joint venture holdings arise in which the group has no strategic intention, these investments are classi ed as venture capital holdings and are designated as held at fair value through pro t and loss.
All intergroup balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses within the group are eliminated to the extent that they do not re ect an impairment to the asset.
Audit Conclusion These abridged financial statements have been extracted from the audited financial statements on which Ernst & Young Inc have issued an unmodi ed audit report.
The auditors report on the abridged financial statements is available for inspection at the companies registered of ce.
The purpose of the staff share schemes is to promote an esprit fide corps within the organisation, create an awareness of Investecs performance and provide an incentive to maximise individual and group performance by allowing all staff to share in the risks and rewards of the group.
Further information on the group share options and long-term incentive plans are provided on pages 75 to 78 of the Remuneration Report.
Expense charged to the income statement PC CM IB AM PA GSO Total included in administrative expenses group 000 2009 Equity settled 10 760 7 034 7 113 4 093 920 17 381 47 301 Cash settled 4 23 9 - - 3 15 Total income statement charge 10 756 7 011 7 122 4 093 920 17 384 47 286 2008 Equity settled 8 684 5 342 5 948 3 089 1 079 15 040 39 182 Cash settled 64 60 100 - - 194 418 Total income statement charge 8 748 5 402 6 048 3 089 1 079 15 234 39 600 Included in the above income statement charge is an accelerated share based payment charge as a result of modi cations to certain options granted.
The accelerated expense for the year was 1 125 388 2008: Nil.
An additional amount of 45.6 million charged to the income statement, as part of the variable remuneration expense within personnel costs, has a corresponding credit to equity as it forms part of a shared based payment.
This arises from the group introducing a non-cash deferred component to variable remuneration payments.
The number of shares to be delivered in lieu of cash payments is the value of the award divided by the value per share applicable to the awards.
PC Private Client Activities, CM Capital Markets, IB Investment Banking, AM Asset Management, PA Property Activities, GSO Group Services and Other Activities 2009 2008 Liabilities on cash settled options Total liability included in other liabilities - 6 Total fair value for vested appreciation rights - 13 Weighted average fair value of options granted in the year UK Schemes 9 447 25 239 SA Schemes 9 385 28 509 Details of options outstanding UK schemes South African schemes during the year 2009 2008 2009 2008 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Number of Weighted share average share average share average share average options exercise options exercise options exercise options exercise price price price price R R Outstanding at the beginning of the year 28 304 271 0.53 29 029 906 0.84 28 917 806 6.55 30 542 346 14.02 Granted during the year 6 251 281 0.07 7 290 269 0.26 5 498 450 - 7 601 180 - Exercised during the year 2 592 134 0.88 5 790 043 1.63 1 691 084 26.28 7 433 770 30.30 Expired during the year 1 075 426 3.69 2 225 861 0.86 1 323 971 12.60 1 791 950 7.63 Outstanding at the end of the year 30 887 992 0.89 28 304 271 0.53 31 401 201 4.08 28 917 806 6.55 Exercisable at the end of the year 866 078 3.13 910 733 2.98 2 318 989 39.89 2 538 170 39.69 Weighted average share price during the year was 3.01 2008: 5.45 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 131 Notes to the fi financial statements Share based payments continued The exercise price range and weighted average remaining contractual life for the options are as follows: At 31 March UK schemes South African schemes 2009 2008 2009 2008 Options with strike prices Exercise price range 1.55 - 6.52 1.55 - 6.52 R20.28 - R57.60 R20.28 - R57.60 Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.47 years 3.12 years 1.76 years 2.33 years Long-term incentive grants with no strike price Exercise price range 0 0 R0 R0 Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.79 years 3.21 years 2.74 years 3.34 years The fair values of options granted were calculated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The expected volatility is based on the respective share price movement over the last 6 months, but also includes an element of forward expectation.
The expected attrition rates used were determined based on historical group data, with an adjustment to actual attrition on final vesting.
Earnings per share For the year to 31 March 2009 2008 Earnings per share - pence 38.5 57.7 Basic earnings per share pence is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders in Investec plc and Investec Limited by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
000 000 Earnings attributable to the shareholders per income statement 292 022 391 558 Preference dividends paid 47 503 41 779 Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 244 519 349 779 Earnings from future dilutive convertible instruments 184 736 Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 244 703 350 515 Diluted earnings per share - pence 36.1 54.0 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders of Investec plc and Investec limited, adjusted for the effects of dilutive ordinary potential shares, by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of the dilutive ordinary potential shares during the year.
Weighted average total number of shares in issue during the year 679 078 556 640 059 998 Weighted average number of treasury shares 44 477 037 33 894 292 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 634 601 519 606 165 706 Weighted average number of shares resulting from future dilutive potential shares 42 397 113 35 390 062 Weighted average number of shares resulting from future dilutive convertible instruments 1 778 343 7 489 820 Diluted weighted number of shares potentially in issue 678 776 975 649 045 588 132 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Notes to the fi financial statements Earnings per share continued For the year to 31 March 2009 2008 Adjusted earnings per share - pence 42.4 56.9 Adjusted earnings per share pence is calculated by dividing the earnings, before deducting goodwill impairment and non-operating items attributable to the ordinary shareholders after taking into account earnings attributable to perpetual preference shareholders, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
000 000 Earnings attributable to shareholders per income statement 292 022 391 558 Goodwill after minorities 23 790 62 765 Pro t on disposal of group operations net of taxation 721 64 345 Preference dividends paid 47 503 41 779 Additional earnings losses attributable to other equity holders 1 627 3 504 Adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill and non-operating items 269 215 344 695 Earnings from future dilutive convertible instruments 184 736 Diluted adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill and non-operating items 269 399 345 431 Diluted adjusted earnings per share - pence 39.7 53.2 Headline earnings per share - pence Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the fide nition in the Institute of Investment Management Research Statement of Investment Practice No.
1 The fide nition of Headline Earnings and is disclosed in accordance with the JSE Listing Requirements and in terms of circular 8 2007 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
41.2 49.7 000 000 Earnings attributable to shareholders per income statement 292 022 391 558 Goodwill after minorities 23 790 62 765 Pro t on disposal of group operations net of taxation 721 64 345 Preference dividends paid 47 503 41 779 Gains recognised on investment properties after taxation and minority interests 6 376 28 989 Other headline adjustments 415 17 711 Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 261 627 301 499 Earnings from future dilutive convertible instruments 184 736 Diluted headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 261 811 302 235 Diluted headline earnings per share - pence 38.6 46.6 In accordance with IFRS, dividends attributable to equity holders are accounted for when a constructive liability arises, i. e. on declaration by the board of directors and approval by the shareholders, where required.
Investec is of the view that EPS is best re ected by adjusting for earnings that are attributed to equity instruments other than ordinary shares on an accrual basis and therefore adjusts the paid dividend on such instruments to accrued in arriving at adjusted EPS Other headline adjustments include the fair value of investment properties and realised gains losses on available for sale instruments as well as impairments recognised against available for sale instruments.
Taxation on headline earnings adjustments amounted to 2.3 million 2008: 27.6 million, with no impact on earnings attributable to minorities 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 133 Notes to the fi financial statements Dividends For the year to 31 March 2009 2008 Pence Total Pence Total per share 000 per share 000 Ordinary dividend Final dividend for prior year 13.5 89 140 13.0 55 415 Interim dividend for current year 8.0 54 855 11.5 90 511 Total dividend attributable to ordinary shareholder recognised in current fi financial year 21.5 143 995 24.5 145 926 The directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2009 of 5.0 pence per ordinary share 2008: 13.5 pence.
This will be paid as follows: for Investec Limited shareholders, through a dividend paid by Investec Limited of 66.0 cents per ordinary share.
for Investec plc non-South African shareholders, through a dividend paid by Investec plc of 5.0 pence per ordinary share.
for Investec plc South African resident shareholders, through a dividend payment on the SA DAS share equivalent to 5.0 pence per ordinary share.
The final dividend will be payable on 18 August 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 31 July 2009.
2009 2008 Pence Cents Total Pence Cents Total per share per share 000 per share per share 000 Perpetual preference dividend Final dividend for prior year 32.67 1 038.64 28 808 30.20 887.48 20 411 Interim dividend for current year 30.14 1 110.35 18 695 32.93 941.02 21 368 Total dividend attributable to perpetual preference shareholder recognised in current fi financial year 62.81 2 148.99 47 503 63.13 1 828.50 41 779 The directors have declared a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2009 of 16.03 pence Investec plc shares traded on the JSE Limited and 16.03 pence Investec plc shares traded on the Channel Island Stock Exchange, 518.77 cents Investec Limited and 555.82 cents Investec Bank Limited per perpetual preference share.
The final dividend will be payable on 2 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 June 2009.
Perpetual preference share dividends from Investec Tier I UK LP Perpetual preference share dividends from Investec Limited and Investec Bank limited 134 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Financial statements Contact details Australia, Brisbane Hong Kong Level 31 Riparian Plaza Unit 4209 42 F The Gloucester Tower 71 Eagle Street Brisbane The Landmark Central Hong Kong QLD 4000 Australia Telephone 852 3187 5000 Telephone 61 7 3018 8100 Facsimile 852 2524 3360 Facsimile 61 7 3018 8108 e-mail investec.
com Facsimile 27 865 009 901 136 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Contact details South Africa, East London South Africa, Stellenbosch Pilot Mill House The Quarry Block D fide Wagen Road Of ce Park Selbourne East London 5247 Stellentia Avenue Stellenbosch 7600 PO Box 19484 Tacoma 5214 PO Box 19428 The Village 1218 Telephone 27 43 721 0660 Telephone 27 21 809 0700 Facsimile 27 43 721 0664 Facsimile 27 21 809 0730 South Africa, Johannesburg Switzerland, Geneva 100 Grayston Drive 3 Place des Bergues Sandown Sandton 2196 Geneva 1201 Switzerland PO Box 785700 Sandton 2146 Telephone 41 22 807 2000 Telephone 27 11 286 7000 Facsimile 41 22 807 2005 Facsimile 27 11 286 7777 e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
co. uk PO Box 27416 Greenacres 6057 United States, New York Telephone 27 41 396 6700 Facsimile 27 41 363 1667 666 Fifth Avenue 15th Floor New York NY 10103 USA South Africa, Pretoria Telephone 212 786 7589 Facsimile 917 206 5102 Cnr Atterbury and Klarinet Streets Menlo Park Pretoria 0081 Taiwan PO Box 1882 Brooklyn Square 0075 Telephone 27 12 427 8300 Unit B 20F Taipei 101 Tower Facsimile 27 12 427 8310 7 Xin Yi Rd Sec 5 Taipei 110 Taiwan Telephone 886 2 8101 0800 Facsimile 886 2 8101 0900 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 137 Notes 138 2009 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements
