Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Directors Responsibility Statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report set out on pages 238 to 240, is made with a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the combined consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the combined consolidated financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and the net income and cash ows for the year, and other information contained in this report.
To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: The board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal controls and accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error or loss is reduced in a cost effective manner.
These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly fide ned framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties: The groups Internal Audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group Audit Committee, appraises and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the system of internal controls and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business: and The group Audit Committee, together with the Internal Audit department, plays an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satis ed that no material breakdown in the operation of the system of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review.
The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable judgements and estimates on a consistent basis and provides additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
The financial statements of the company and the group have been prepared in accordance with the respective Companies Acts of the United Kingdom and South Africa, comply with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation and speci c enquiries that adequate resources exist to support the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
These financial statements have been prepared on that basis.
It is the responsibility of the independent auditors to report on the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their report to the members of the company and group is set out on pages 238 to 240 of this report.
As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companies auditors are unaware.
All steps which ought to have been taken as directors have been completed in order to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companies auditors are aware of that information.
Approval of financial statements The directors report and the financial statements of the company and the group, which appear on pages 229 to 232 and pages 241 to 319, were approved by the board of directors on 15 June 2009.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companies website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Of cer Managing Director 15 June 2009 Annual report 2009 233 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the Directors Report Additional information for shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 August 2009.
Further details are set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 321 to 331.
Share capital The share capital of Investec plc at 12 June 2009 consists of 560 000 000 plc ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, 1 000 000 plc preference shares of 0.01 each, 100 000 000 non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of 0.01 each, 300 000 000 plc special converting shares of 0.0002 each, the special voting share of 0.001, the UK DAN share of 0.001 and the UK DAS share of 0.001 each class as fide ned in the Articles.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Companies Act 1985, the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001 and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, the approval of shareholders as provided in the Investec plcs articles, and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, Investec plc may purchase, or may enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its own shares of any class, including without limitation any redeemable shares, in any way and at any price whether at par or above or below par.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Investec plc may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of Investec plc, in the opinion of the board, justi es such payment.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Investec plcs shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent.
or more interest in nominal value of the issued shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of Investec plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of Investec plc.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of Investec plc in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
234 Annual report 2009 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the Directors Report Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons or, if there is only one holder, that holder at least holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Where, under the companys share incentive plan, participants are the bene cial owners of the shares, but not the registered owners, the participants are not entitled to exercise any voting rights until the shares are released to the participants.
Under the companys employee trust, the trustee does not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncerti cated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certi cated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with Investec plc send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certi cates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require.
Subject to the Companies Acts and regulations and applicable CREST rules, the directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncerti cated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A number of the companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
plc preference shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the plc preference shares: To receive a non-cumulative preferential dividend out of the pro ts of Investec plc in priority to the plc ordinary shares but pari passu with the perpetual preference shares, on such dates in respect of such periods and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the directors prior to the allotment thereof: The plc preference shares will rank as regards participation in pro ts pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with the perpetual preference shares: On a return of capital, whether or not on a winding up but not on a redemption or purchase of any shares by Investec plc or otherwise, the plc preference shares will rank, pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with any other shares of Investec plc that are expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards participation in the capital, and otherwise in priority to any other class of shares of Investec plc: Investec plc may, at its option, redeem all or any of the plc preference shares for the time being issued and outstanding on the first call date or any dividend payment date thereafter: and Holders of plc preference shares will not be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of Investec plc.
Holders will be entitled to attend and vote at a class meeting of holders of plc preference shares.
Annual report 2009 235 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the Directors Report Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the perpetual preference shares: Each perpetual preference shares will rank as regards dividends and a repayment of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc prior to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share, the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares.
The perpetual preference shares shall confer on the holders, on a per perpetual preference shares and equal basis, the right on a return of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc of an amount equal to the aggregate of the nominal value and premiums in respect of perpetual preference shares issued divided by the number of perpetual preference shares in issue: Each perpetual preference share may confer upon the holder thereof the right to receive out of the pro ts of Investec plc which it shall determine to distribute, in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares, the preference dividend calculated in accordance with the Articles: The holders of the perpetual preference shares shall be entitled to receive notice of and be present but not to vote, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting of Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect of the perpetual preference shares, unless either or both of the following circumstances prevail as at the date of the meeting: i The preference dividend or any part thereof remains in arrear and unpaid as determined in accordance with Article 150.2 e ii after six months from the due date thereof: and ii A resolution of Investec plc is proposed which resolution directly affects the rights attached to the perpetual preference shares or the interests of the holders thereof, or a resolution of Investec plc is proposed to wind up or in relation to the winding-up of Investec plc or for the reduction of its capital, in which event the preference shareholders shall be entitled to vote only on such resolution Shares required for the DLC structure Investec SSC UK Limited Investec Limited, a UK trust company, specially formed for the purpose of DLC structure, holds the plc special voting share, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share.
These shares can only be transferred to another UK trust company, in limited circumstances.
The plc special voting shares are specially created shares so that shareholders of both Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively vote together as a single decision-making body on matters affecting shareholders of both companies in similar ways, as set out in the Articles.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special converting shares have no voting rights except in relation to a resolution proposing the i variation of the rights attaching to the shares or ii winding-up, and they have no rights to dividends.
The special converting shares are held on trust for the investec limited ordinary shareholders.
Investec plc and Investec Limited have established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Investec plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS share and UK DAN share which enables Investec plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Investec Limited.
This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in the distributable reserves of Investec plc and Investec Limited and or to address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than four and no more than 20 in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc by way of quali cation.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
At each Annual General Meeting held in each year other than 2002 any director who was elected or last re-elected or, if later, deemed in terms of the Articles to have been elected or re-elected a director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire by rotation.
Any further directors, other than those retiring under any other provision in Investec plcs Articles shall retire by rotation to bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of directors in of ce at the date of the notice of meeting.
Investec plc may by ordinary resolution in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Articles appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold of ce only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
236 Annual report 2009 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the Directors Report Powers of directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts, the CREST regulations and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, and any directions given by ordinary or special resolution, the business of Investec plc will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of Investec plc.
The board may exercise all the powers of Investec plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Investec plc or of any third party.
Signi cant agreements: change of control The articles of association of both Investec plc and Investec Limited ensure that a person cannot make an offer for one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either Investec plc or Investec Limited serves written notice on the other at any time after either party becomes a subsidiary of the other party or after both Investec plc and Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a third party the agreements establishing the DLC structure will terminate.
All of Investec plcs share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control and, where applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
