Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group plc Group accounts Basis of Preparation Revenue recognition These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Revenue represents the value of goods sold arising in the United with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland excluding intra-group sales and interpretations in issue and with those parts of the Companies Act value added tax.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
of ownership of the goods has been transferred to the customer.
The risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are deemed to have The following interpretations to existing standards have been been transferred when the goods are despatched to, or picked up by, published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods the customer.
beginning on or after 1 April 2008 and have been adopted in the financial statements for the first time this year.
Functional currency With the exception of BSS Ireland Limited, which conducts business IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements, applies to contractual in the Republic of Ireland, the principal place of operation is the United arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the Kingdom.
Consequently the financial statements are presented in development, financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure GBP Pounds Sterling.
The application of the standard has had no material impact on the Groups accounts.
Foreign currency translation The monetary assets and liabilities of BSS Ireland Limited are IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, effective translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date and its income for annual periods beginning on or after 31 December 2008.
IFRIC 14 and expenses at the average rate for the year.
Differences arising from provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19, Employee benefits these translations are recognised as a separate component of equity on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It in the consolidated financial statements.
also explains how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
The application Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities of the standard has had no material impact on the Groups accounts.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure The Group early adopted the standard from 1 April 2008. to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing activities.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied by Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of the Group were in issue but not yet effective or authorised by the the derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group European Union.
would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest and exchange rates and the IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements, Amendment current creditworthiness of the counterparties.
to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are Measurement on Eligible Hedged Items, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash Costs, IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial flows, are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is Statements, IFRS 2 Revised Share-based payment: Vesting recognised immediately in the income statement.
conditions and cancellations, IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 16 For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, IAS 32 a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 37 attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in Revised Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets the income statement.
A summary of the principal Group accounting policies are set out For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income presented unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost Foreign currency forward contracts are not designated effective convention as modified by the revaluation of certain items as required hedges and so are marked to market at the balance sheet date, with by IFRS.
any gains or losses being taken through the income statement.
In preparing the financial statements set out on the previous pages, The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
the Group has complied with the UK Listing Authority requirements and has presented a comparative balance sheet at 31 March 2008.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: Basis of Consolidation financial assets at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL, availableThe consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of The BSS Group for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The plc and all its subsidiaries at 31 March 2009.
The purchase method of classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial accounting is used to account for the acquisition of the subsidiaries assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Subsidiary trading results are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41 Statement of Accounting Policies continued for The BSS Group plc Group accounts The Group has defined the classes of financial assets and financial Leases liabilities to be other financial assets, loans and receivables including Assets acquired under finance leases, where substantially all cash, borrowings, derivative financial instruments and trade and the risks and benefits incidental to ownership are transferred to other payables.
the Group, are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is provided at rates designed to write-off the cost in a Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL equal annual amounts over the shorter of the estimated useful lives Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as FVTPL where of the assets and the period of the leases.
Leases where the lessor the financial asset or financial liability is either held for trading or it is retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the designated as a FVTPL.
asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are charged to the income statement as incurred.
A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if: It has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or of Property, plant and equipment disposal in the near future: or Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less It is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the depreciation or impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a straight Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of line basis to allocate the cost less residual value over the estimated short-term profit-taking: or useful life of the asset and is provided at the following rates: It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
Freehold land Nil Freehold properties and long leasehold Lesser of 2% of cost Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair or over the lease term value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income Short leasehold properties statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship.
The net gain tenants improvements 10% of cost or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any interest Plant, vehicles and other equipment 10% to 35% of cost earned or paid on the financial asset and financial liability respectively.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and b Loans and receivables adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are Borrowing costs classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are Borrowing costs specifically and directly attributable to the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less acquisition or construction of assets that necessarily take a any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or interest rate, except for short-term receivables which applies to all sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of interest would be the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Intangible assets c Other financial liabilities a Goodwill Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
If the method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the income statement.
The effective interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost financial liability, or where appropriate a shorter period.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
d Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities The allocation of the goodwill is made to the lowest level of The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual cash-generating units or group of cash-generating units which rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the are monitored by management and benefit from the acquisition financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership on which the goodwill arose.
of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold not previously written in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
42 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 b Computer software Taxation Costs that are directly associated with the development of The current taxation charge in the income statement is based on identifiable and unique software products that will probably the profit for the year as adjusted for disallowable and not taxable generate economic benefits for the Group beyond one year, are items using current rates and takes into account tax deferred recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development because of the timing differences between the treatment of certain costs recognised as assets and acquired computer software items for taxation and accounting purposes.
licences are amortised over their estimated useful lives 3 to 10 years and are provided at between 10% and 33% of cost.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and c Acquired assets liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
amortised to the income statement over the useful life of the assets acquired except where they are considered to have an indefinite Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is useful life.
All acquired intangible assets are reviewed annually for probable that future taxable profit will be available against which impairment and whenever there is an indication that the asset may the temporary differences can be utilised.
Significant and exceptional items Employee benefit costs Items that are both material and non-recurring and whose a Pension schemes significance is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure and Group companies operate various pension schemes.
Contributions identification within the financial statements are referred to as to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged in exceptional items and disclosed within their relevant consolidated accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as to income statement category.
spread the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of scheme members.
As permitted under IAS 19 revised, actuarial Critical Accounting Estimates surpluses and deficits are recognised immediately in the statement The preparation of the financial statements in compliance with IFRS of recognised income and expense.
require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the to the Income Statement as incurred.
Management evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis using historical experience, consultation with experts and other b Share-based compensation assumptions that it believes reasonable.
The Audit Committee have The Group operates various equity settled share option schemes.
been party to discussions about the development, selection and The value of the employee services is determined by reference disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates to the fair value of the options granted using the Black-Scholes and about their actual application.
The Groups most sensitive valuation model.
This value is then expensed in the income estimates are discussed below: statement in the period between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its Inventories estimates of the number of options expected to be exercised.
Any As required by financial reporting standards, the Group continually net proceeds are credited to equity when the options are exercised.
evaluates its stock holding to ensure that it is carried at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Provisions are made against damaged, Inventories slow moving and obsolete inventories.
As damaged inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, are identified their value is written down through each divisions after adjusting for impairment for obsolete and slow moving items inventory counting procedure.
Slow moving and obsolete and are calculated on a first in first out basis.
inventories are assessed by each division during standard reporting procedures and again by Group management for statutory Costs comprise direct materials and where appropriate a reporting.
Obsolescence is considered by comparing future sales proportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and with current levels of inventory holding.
External factors will also discounts.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less influence this estimate as new legislation, trends, or manufacturers further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
withdrawing product lines might render certain inventories obsolete ahead of any reasonable expectations.
The extent to which these Trade receivables external factors influence the profitability of inventory will determine Trade receivables are recognised at the value of the sale of goods the significance of any provision variance.
or services on the date of the transaction.
Subsequently trade receivables are reduced when objective evidence exists that the As at 31 March 2009 the Group had inventory provision of 10.4m Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the 2008: 12.9m.
original terms of the receivables.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 Statement of Accounting Policies continued for The BSS Group plc Group accounts Allowance for doubtful debts The Group makes provisions for debts that management estimates may become impaired.
Each division makes monthly assessments on the recoverability of all its accounts based on external factors such as the creditworthiness of the customer, prevailing market conditions and the age of the receivable.
A detailed formal review is undertaken at half and full year to ensure that all provision balances are fair and accurate.
If the Group has been cautious in assessing the financial conditions of the customer and its ability to pay, then amounts that have been provided for may subsequently be recovered.
Likewise if the Group has been optimistic then amounts expected to be recovered and therefore not provided for may subsequently be deemed irrecoverable.
As at 31 March 2009 the Group had a provision for doubtful debts of 8.0m 2008: 6.7m.
Long-lived assets Management review long-lived assets for impairment on an annual basis.
Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the assets residual value, if any.
In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available.
Management use internal discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value.
Management derive the required cash flow estimates from historical experience and internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate.
Pension liabilities The Group operates various defined benefit pension schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
These are accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate the value of liabilities and amount of costs to be included in the financial statements.
The actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rate of return, future salary and pension increases and employee turnover rates.
While management believe that the actuarial assumptions are suitable, any significant change to those would affect the balance sheet and income statement.
Property leases The Group holds a number of leases on properties which are no longer used for trading.
The Group has recently been successful in sub-letting a number of properties but despite all efforts this is sometimes not possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, a provision is recognised in the accounts as the difference between the amounts contractually owed to the landlord and the amount contractually receivable if any from the tenant for the period up until the lease is judged to be no longer onerous.
Estimates are based on the current condition of the UK property market and advice from external advisors and management believe that they are appropriate.
It may be possible that a lease takes longer than anticipated to dispose of resulting in an understatement of the provision.
If this is the case, management does not believe it likely to be material.
44 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
