Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group plc Company Accounts Basis of Accounting Leases and hire purchase contracts The accounts have been prepared under UK GAAP using the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
items as required by UK GAAP and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
The Assets held under finance leases are included in fixed assets at accounting policies adopted in these accounts are consistent with their fair value at the inception of the lease.
Finance charges are those used in previous years, except where new standards have amortised over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge been adopted as noted below.
on the remaining balance of the lease obligation.
Investments Borrowings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the financial Borrowings are carried at their issue proceeds net of finance costs, statements at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Finance costs are allocated over the term of accordance with FRS 11, the Company performs impairment the borrowings.
reviews where there is an indication that the carrying amount of fixed assets investments may not be recoverable.
Where it is Share based benefits established that an asset has been impaired, then an amount equal The Group operates various share option schemes.
The value of to the impairment is charged to the profit and loss account in the the employee services is determined by reference to the fair value year of the impairment.
of the options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
This value is then expensed in the profit and loss account in the Deferred tax period between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the asset arose as a result of transactions that had occurred by the number of options expected to be exercised.
Any net proceeds balance sheet date and gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax are credited to equity when the options are exercised.
in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future with the following exception: Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there The Company also enters into derivative financial instrument and will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the hedging activities for which the policy is the same as the Group underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is as set out on page 41.
The Company has taken the exemption in measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures as its financial expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences statements are included in the publicly available consolidated reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively financial statements of the Group, which include disclosures that enacted at the balance sheet date.
Pension schemes Cash flow statement Contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement, as allowed charged in accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as by FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements, as its cash flows to spread the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of are included in the Group Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service lives of scheme members.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71
