Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 51 Accounting policies for the year ended 31st December 2009 value for transactions with employees and cost of acquisition is less than the fair Basis of preparation others providing similar services: they value of the net assets of the subsidiary The consolidated financial statements of would not impact the number of awards acquired, the difference is recognised the Group have been prepared in expected to vest or valuation there of directly in the income statement.
accordance with International Financial subsequent to grant date.
All Inter-company transactions, balances and Reporting Standards as adopted by the cancellations, whether by the entity or by unrealised gains on transactions between European Union IFRSs as adopted by the other parties, should receive the same Group companies are eliminated.
EU, IFRIC interpretations and the accounting treatment.
The Group and Unrealised losses are also eliminated Companies Act 2006 applicable to Company has adopted IFRS 2 unless the transaction provides evidence of Companies reporting under IFRS.
The amendment from 1st January 2009. an impairment of the asset transferred.
consolidated financial statements have IAS 23 Amendment, 'Borrowing costs' Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been prepared under the historical cost effective from 1st January 2009 - the been changed where necessary to ensure convention, as modified by the revaluation amendment require that borrowing costs consistency with the policies adopted by of available-for-sale investments and directly attributable to a qualifying are the Group.
The amendment does not have an impact on the Group or Associates Standards, amendments and Companys financial statements.
interpretations effective in 2009 Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not The Group has adopted the following Basis of consolidation control, generally accompanying a new and amended IFRSs as of 1st January The consolidated financial statements shareholding of between 20% and 50% 2009: comprise the accounts of the Company of the voting rights.
Investments in IFRS 7 Financial instruments and its subsidiary undertakings.
The profits associates are accounted for by the equity Disclosures amendment effective and losses of subsidiary undertakings are method of accounting and are initially 1st January 2009.
The amendment consolidated as from the effective date of recognised at cost.
requires enhanced disclosures about fair acquisition or to the effective date of The Groups investment in associates value measurement and liquidity risk.
includes goodwill net of any accumulated In particular, the amendment requires impairment loss identified on acquisition.
disclosure of fair value measurements by Subsidiaries The Groups share of its associates postlevel of a fair value measurement Subsidiaries are all entities over which the acquisition profits or losses are recognised hierarchy.
As the change in accounting Group has the power to govern the in the income statement, and its share of policy only results in additional financial and operating policies so as to post-acquisition movements in reserves are disclosures, the amendment does not have obtain economic benefits and generally recognised in reserves.
The cumulative a impact on the Group or companys accompany a shareholding of more than post-acquisition movements are adjusted financial statements.
one half of the voting rights.
The existence against the carrying amount of the IAS 1 revised.
Presentation of financial and effect of potential voting rights that investment.
statements effective 1st January 2009. are currently exercisable or convertible are When the Groups share of losses in an The revised standard prohibits the considered when assessing whether associate equals or exceeds its interest in presentation of items of income and the Group controls another entity.
the associate, including any other expenses that is, non-owner changes in Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the unsecured receivables, the Group does equity in the statement of changes in date on which control is transferred to the not recognise further losses, unless it has equity, requiring nonowner changes in Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the incurred obligations or made payments on equity to be presented separately from date that control ceases.
owner changes in equity in a statement of The Group uses the purchase method of comprehensive income.
Comparative Unrealised gains on transactions between accounting to account for the acquisition information has been re-presented so that the Group and its associates are of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition it also is in conformity with the revised eliminated to the extent of the Groups is measured as the fair value of the assets standard.
As the change in accounting interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses given, equity instruments issued and policy only impacts presentation aspects, are also eliminated unless the transaction liabilities incurred or assumed at the date the amendment does not have an impact provides evidence of an impairment of the of exchange, plus costs directly on the Group or Companys financial asset transferred.
Accounting policies of attributable to the acquisition.
associates have been changed where assets acquired and liabilities and necessary to ensure consistency with the IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based contingent liabilities assumed in a business policies adopted by the Group.
payment effective 1st January 2009 combination are measured initially at their deals with vesting conditions and fair values at the acquisition date, cancellations.
It clarifies that vesting irrespective of the extent of any minority conditions are service conditions and interest.
The excess of the cost of performance conditions only.
Other acquisition over the fair value of the features of a share-based payment are not Groups share of the identifiable net assets vesting conditions.
These features would acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the need to be included in the grant date fair 52 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Accounting policies for the year ended 31st December 2009 i assets and liabilities for each balance For acquisitions completed on or after 1st Segment reporting sheet presented are translated at the January 2004, goodwill is tested annually A business segment is a group of assets closing rate at the date of that balance for impairment and carried at cost less and operations engaged in providing sheet: accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and services that are subject to risks and returns losses on the disposal of an entity include that are different from those of other ii income and expenses for each income the carrying amount of goodwill relating to business segments.
statement are translated at average the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to exchange rates unless this average is A geographical segment is engaged in cash generating units for the purpose of not a reasonable approximation of the providing services within a particular impairment testing.
Cash generating units economic environment that are subject to cumulative effect of the rates prevailing represent the lowest level of geographical risks and returns that are different from on the transaction dates, in which and business segment combinations that those of segments operating in other case income and expenses are the Group uses for internal reporting economic environments.
translated at the dates of the purposes.
transactions : and Foreign currencies iii all resulting exchange differences are Intangible assets Functional and presentation recognised as a separate component Computer software currency of equity.
Acquired computer software licenses are Items included in the financial statements On consolidation, exchange differences capitalised on the basis of the costs of each of the Groups entities are arising from the translation of the net incurred to acquire and bring to use the measured using the currency of the investment in foreign entities, and of specific software.
These costs are primary economic environment in which borrowings and other currency instruments amortised over their estimated useful lives.
the entity operates the functional designated as hedges of such investments, Costs associated with developing or currency.
are taken to shareholders equity.
When a maintaining computer software The consolidated financial statements are foreign operation is sold, such exchange programmes are recognised as an presented in Sterling, which is the Parent differences are recognised in the income expense as incurred.
Costs that are Companys functional and presentation statement as part of the gain or loss on directly associated with the production of currency.
identifiable and unique software products Transactions and balances controlled by the Group, and that will Goodwill and fair value adjustments Foreign currency transactions are generate economic benefits exceeding arising on the acquisition of a foreign translated into the functional currency using costs beyond one year, are recognised as entity are treated as assets and liabilities the exchange rates prevailing at the dates intangible assets.
Direct costs include the of the foreign entity and translated at the of the transactions.
Foreign exchange software development employee costs and closing rate.
gains and losses resulting from the an appropriate portion of relevant settlement of such transactions and from overheads.
Computer software Goodwill arising on the translation at year-end exchange rates development costs recognised as assets consolidation of monetary assets and liabilities are amortised over their estimated useful Goodwill represents the excess of the cost denominated in foreign currencies are lives.
of an acquisition over the fair value of the recognised in the income statement, Groups share of the net identifiable assets except when deferred in equity as of the acquired subsidiary associate at qualifying cash flow hedges and the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on qualifying net investment hedges.
acquisitions of subsidiaries is shown Translation differences on non-monetary separately on the Balance Sheet.
items, such as equities held at fair value Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is through profit or loss, are reported as part included in investments in associates.
of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as Goodwill arising on acquisitions equities classified as available-for-sale completed prior to 1st January 1998 is financial assets, are included in the fair written off directly to reserves.
Following value reserve in equity.
the adoption of IFRS this goodwill remains written off to reserves and no adjustment Group companies would be made on subsequent disposal.
The results and financial position of all the For acquisitions completed on or after 1st Group entities none of which has the January 1998 and before 1st January currency of a hyperinflationary economy 2004, goodwill is stated on the Balance that have a functional currency different Sheet at its previously amortised net book from the presentation currency are value.
translated into the presentation currency as follows: Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 53 Capitalised employment The principal rates of depreciation are as Interest on deposits and interest-bearing contract payments follows: investments is credited as it is earned.
The Group makes payments to certain key Freehold land and buildings: - between Regular purchases and sales of financial employees in recognition of them signing a 0% and 2% per annum.
assets are recognised on the trade date - long-term employment contact, usually three the date on which the Group commits to Leasehold improvements: - between to five years.
These payments are purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are 10% and 20% per annum or over the capitalised as intangible assets since legal initially recognised at fair value plus life of the lease.
rights protect the expected benefits that the transaction costs.
Financial assets are Group will derive from the contracts.
Furniture and office equipment: - derecognised when the rights to receive between 10% and 20% per annum.
The asset recognised is then amortised cash flows have expired or have been over the duration of the underlying transferred and the Group has transferred Computer hardware: - between 20% contract.
substantially all risks and rewards of and 100% per annum.
Available-for-sale assets are Other Motor vehicles: - between 25% and 33 subsequently carried at fair value.
For acquisitions completed after 1st January 1 3% per annum.
Loans and receivables are carried at 2004 the business acquired is reviewed to amortised cost.
identify assets that meet the definition of an Financial assets The fair values of quoted investments are intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of The Group classifies its financial assets as determined based upon current bid price.
such assets include customer contracts and loans and receivables and  of business renewal.
The classification depends Changes in the value of securities classified assets are valued on the basis of the upon the purpose for which the financial as available-for-sale are recognised in present value of future cash flows and are assets were acquired.
amortised to the income statement over the determines the classification of its financial life of the contract or their estimated assets at initial recognition.
Employee benefit trust economic life.
The current maximum The Group operates a deferred estimated economic life is ten years.
Loans and receivables compensation scheme by way of a Impairment of assets Loans and receivables are non-derivative discretionary, employee benefit trust.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are financial assets with fixed or determinable Investments held by this scheme, which are not subject to amortisation and are tested payments that are not quoted in an active principally represented by Unit Trusts, are annually for impairment.
They are included in current assets, classified as fixed assets on the balance subject to amortisation are reviewed for except for maturities greater than 12 sheets and charged to the Group profit impairment whenever events or changes in months after the balance sheet date.
and loss account over the vesting periods circumstances indicate that the carrying The Group's loans and receivables of the award.
amount may not be recoverable.
An comprise trade and other receivables and impairment loss is recognised for the cash and cash equivalents in the balance Insurance broking debtors and amount by which the assets carrying sheet.
creditors amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Insurance brokers act as agents in placing The recoverable amount is the higher of an Available-for-sale financial assets the insurable risks of their clients with assets fair value less costs to sell and value Available-for-sale financial assets are insurers and, as such, are not liable as in use.
For the purposes of assessing categorised according to their nature into principals for amounts arising from such impairment, assets are grouped at the one of two categories: transactions.
In recognition of this lowest levels for which there are separately relationship, debtors from insurance 1 Investments and deposits, which identifiable cash flows cash-generating broking transactions are not included as an consist mainly of Fixed Deposits, units.
Other than the Bonds and Commercial Paper - these receivable for fees and commissions investments are held at fair value and Property, plant and equipment earned on a transaction, no recognition of are classified between current and Assets are stated at their net book value the insurance transaction occurs until the non-current assets according to historical cost less accumulated Group receives cash in respect of maturity date.
Depreciation is calculated to premiums or claims, at which time a 2 Other investments, which include write off the cost of such assets over their corresponding liability is established in securities and other investments held estimated useful lives.
favour of the insurer or the client.
for strategic purposes - these In certain circumstances, the Group investments are held fair at value advances premiums, refunds or claims to unless a fair value cannot be insurance underwriters or clients prior to accurately determined in which case collection.
These advances are reflected in they are held at cost less any provision the consolidated balance sheet as part of for impairment.
54 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Accounting policies for the year ended 31st December 2009 income tax arises from initial recognition of corporate bond of equivalent currency and Trade receivables an asset or liability in a transaction other term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit Trade receivables are recognised initially than a business combination that at the is included on the Groups balance sheet.
at fair value and subsequently at amortised time of the transaction affects neither Surpluses are included only to the extent cost, less provision for impairment.
accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is that they are recoverable through reduced A provision for impairment of trade not recognised.
Deferred income tax is contributions in the future or through refunds receivables is established when there is determined using tax rates and laws that from the schemes.
The current service cost objective evidence that the Group will not have been enacted or substantially enacted and any past service costs are included in be able to collect all amounts due by the balance sheet date and are the income statement within salaries and according to the original terms of the expected to apply when the related associated expenses and the expected receivables.
Significant financial difficulties deferred income tax asset is realised or the return on the schemes assets, net of the of the debtor, dispute, default or deferred income tax liability is settled.
impact of the unwinding of the discount on delinquency in payments are considered scheme liabilities, is included within Deferred income tax is charged or credited indicators that the receivable is impaired.
Actuarial gains and losses, to equity in respect of any items, which is The carrying amount of the asset is including differences between the expected itself either charged or credited directly to reduced through the use of an allowance and actual return on scheme assets, are equity.
Any subsequent recognition of the account, and the amount of the loss is recognised through the Statement of deferred gain or loss in the consolidated recognised in the income statement.
income statement is accompanied by the When a trade receivable is uncollectible, corresponding deferred income tax.
A defined contribution plan is a pension it is written off against the allowance plan under which the Group pays fixed account for trade receivables.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised contributions into a separate entity.
to the extent that it is probable that future The Group has no legal or constructive Cash and cash equivalents taxable profit will be available against obligations to pay further contributions if Cash and cash equivalents includes cash which the temporary differences can be the fund does not hold sufficient assets to utilised.
in hand, deposits held at call with banks, pay all employees the benefits relating to other short-term highly liquid investments Deferred income tax is provided on employee service in the current and prior with original maturities of three months or temporary differences arising on periods.
Bank overdrafts are shown within investments in subsidiaries and associates, The costs of the Groups defined borrowings in current liabilities on the except where the Group controls the timing balance sheet.
contribution pension schemes are charged of the reversal of the temporary difference to the income statement in the period in and it is probable that the temporary Trade payables which they fall due.
difference will not reverse in the Trade payables are initially recognised at Share-based compensation foreseeable future.
fair value and subsequently measured at The Group operates a number of equityamortised cost.
Employee benefits settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services Pension costs Borrowings received in exchange for the grant of the The Group operates a number of defined options is recognised as an expense.
Borrowings are classified as current benefit pension schemes, and a number of liabilities unless the Group has an The total amount to be expensed over the employees are members of defined unconditional right to defer settlement of the vesting period is determined by reference contribution pension schemes.
to the fair value of the options granted, liability for at least 12 months after the A defined benefit plan is a pension plan excluding the impact of any non-market balance sheet date.
Borrowings are that defines an amount of pension benefit recognised initially at fair value, net of vesting conditions for example, profitability that an employee will receive on transaction costs incurred, they are and sales growth targets.
Non-market retirement, usually dependent on one or vesting conditions are included in subsequently stated at amortised cost using more factors such as age, years of service assumptions about the number of options the effective interest rate method.
that are expected to become exercisable.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups Deferred income tax At each balance sheet date, the entity main defined benefit schemes are carried revises its estimates of the number of The charge for taxation is based on the out at least every three years.
options that are expected to become result for the year at current rates of tax A qualified actuary updates these exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the and takes into account deferred tax.
valuations to 31st December each year.
revision of original estimates, if any, in the Deferred income tax is provided in full, For the purposes of these annual updates, income statement, and a corresponding using the liability method, on temporary scheme assets are included at market value adjustment to equity over the remaining differences arising between the tax bases and scheme liabilities are measured on an vesting period.
of assets and liabilities and their carrying actuarial basis using the projected unit amounts in the consolidated financial method: these liabilities are discounted at statements.
However, if the deferred the current rate of return of an AA Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 55 The proceeds received net of any directly of the underlying trading position of the asset or of a non-financial liability, the attributable transaction costs are credited to Group these items are summarised within gains and losses previously deferred in share capital nominal value and share the Operating Profit, note 3 on page 62, equity are transferred from equity and premium when the options are exercised.
under the heading of exceptional items.
included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, Provisions for liabilities and charges Leases amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement and A provision is recognised where there is a Assets held under leasing agreements, classified as income or expense in the present obligation, whether legal or which transfer substantially all the risks and same periods during which the hedged constructive, as a result of a past event for rewards of ownership to the Group are firm commitment or forecasted transaction which it is probable that a transfer of included in property, plant and equipment.
affects the consolidated income statement.
economic benefits will be required to settle The capital elements of the related lease The gain or loss relating to the ineffective the obligation and a reasonable estimate obligations are included in liabilities.
The portion is recognised instantly in the can be made of the amount of the interest elements of the lease obligations income statement.
Where appropriate the Group are charged to the income statement over discounts provisions to their present value.
the period of the lease term.
When a hedging instrument expires or is The unwinding of the provision discounting sold, or when a hedge no longer meets Leases in which a significant portion of the is included as an interest charge within the criteria for hedge accounting, any risks and rewards of ownership are finance costs in the income statement.
cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at retained by the lessor are classified as that time remains in the hedging reserves operating leases.
Payments made under Fees and commissions and is recognised when the committed or operating leases net of any incentives forecasted transaction ultimately is Fees and commissions are derived from received from the lessor are charged to recognised in the consolidated income two principal sources: the income statement on a straight-line statement.
When a committed or basis over the period of the lease.
Insurance broking forecasted transaction is no longer Income relating to insurance broking is expected to occur, the cumulative gain or Derivative financial instruments brought into account at the later of, the loss that was reported in equity is The Group only enters into derivative policy inception date or when the policy immediately transferred to the consolidated financial instruments in order to hedge placement has been completed and income statement.
Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element Derivative financial instruments are initially Fair value estimation of income relating to the policy is deferred recognised at fair value on the date a The fair value of financial instruments to cover the associated contractual derivative contract is entered into and are traded in active markets such as availableobligation.
subsequently re-measured at their fair for-sale is based upon quoted market value.
The method of recognising the Other services prices at the balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is dependent on the Fees and other income receivable are quoted market price used for financial nature of the item being hedged.
recognised in the period which they relate assets held by the Group is the current bid The Group designates derivatives as either and when they can be measured with price.
a hedge of the fair value of a recognised reasonable certainty.
The carrying value less impairment asset or liability fair value hedge, or a provision of trade receivables and hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the Non-recurring items payables are assumed to approximate their foreign currency risk on a firm commitment Non-recurring items are separately fair values.
The fair values of financial cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net identified to provide greater understanding liabilities is estimated by discounting the investment in a foreign entity net investment of the Groups underlying performance.
future contractual cash flows at the current hedges.
Items classified as exceptional items market interest rate that is available to the Changes in the fair value of derivatives include: gains or losses arising from the Group for similar financial instruments.
that are designated and qualify as fair sale of businesses and investments: closure value hedges and that are highly effective, costs for businesses: restructuring costs: Dividend distribution are recorded in the consolidated income post acquisition integration costs: and other Dividends proposed or declared after the statement, along with any changes in the credits and charges of non-recurring nature balance sheet date are not recognised as fair value of the hedged asset or liability that require inclusion in order to provide a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final that is attributable to the hedged risk.
additional insight into the underlying dividends are recognised as a charge to business performance.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives equity once approved and interim that are designated and qualify as cash Items of a non-recurring and material dividends are charged once paid.
flow hedges and that are highly effective, nature are charged or credited to are recognised in equity.
Where the operating profit and are classified to the forecasted transaction or firm commitment appropriate income statement headings.
results in the recognition of a non-financial To assist in the analysis and understanding 56 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Accounting policies for the year ended 31st December 2009 c Incom e taxes A balance sheet provision is established in Financial and capital risk respect of such claims when it is probable The Group is subject to income taxes in management that the liability has been incurred and the numerous jurisdictions.
Significant The Groups exposure to financial risks and amount of the liability can be reasonably judgement is required in determining the its financial and capital management worldwide provision for income taxes.
policies are detailed in the Directors The Group analyses its litigation exposures There are many transactions and Report on pages 32 to 34. based on available information, including calculations for which the ultimate tax external legal consultation where determination is uncertain during the Critical accounting estimates and ordinary course of business.
Where the appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
judgments final tax outcome of these matters is The outcome of the currently pending and Estimates and judgments used in preparing different from the amounts that were initially future proceedings cannot be predicted the financial statements are continually recorded, such differences will impact the with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in evaluated and are based on historical income tax and deferred tax provisions in a current or future lawsuit could result in experience and other factors, including the period in which such determination is additional costs that are not covered, either expectations of future events that are made.
wholly or partially, under insurance policies believed to be reasonable.
The resulting d Pension obligations and are in excess of the presently accounting estimates will, by definition, established provisions.
It is possible The present value of the pension seldom equal the related actual results.
therefore that the financial position, results obligations depends on a number of The estimates and assumptions that have a of operations or cash flows of the Group factors that are determined on an actuarial significant effect on the carrying amounts of could be materially affected by the basis using a number of assumptions.
assets and liabilities are discussed below.
The assumptions used in determining the a Property, plant and equipment net cost income for pensions include the Assets are carried at historical cost less Future developments expected long-term rate of return on the depreciation calculated to write off the cost relevant plans assets and the discount rate.
The following standards and amendments of such assets over their estimated useful Any changes in these assumptions will to existing standards have been published lives.
impact the carrying amount of pension and are mandatory for the Groups obligations.
Management determines the estimated accounting periods beginning on or after useful lives and related depreciation 1st January 2010 or later periods, but the The expected return on plan assets charges at acquisition.
The estimated useful group has not early adopted them: assumption is determined on a uniform life is reviewed annually and the basis, taking into consideration long-term IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to depreciation charge is revised where useful historical returns, asset allocation and future owners effective on or after 1st July lives are subsequently found to be different estimates of long-term investment returns.
The interpretation is part of the to those previously estimated.
The Group determines the appropriate IASBs annual improvements project discount rate at the end of each year.
b Impairment of assets published in April 2009.
This interpretation This is the interest rate that should be used provides guidance on accounting for The Group tests annually whether goodwill to determine the present value of estimated and other assets that have indefinite useful arrangements whereby an entity distributes future cash outflows expected to be lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets non-cash assets to shareholders either as a required to settle the pension obligations.
are reviewed for impairment whenever distribution of reserves or as dividends.
In determining the appropriate discount IFRS 5 has also been amended to require events or changes in circumstances rate, the Group considers the interest rates indicate that the carrying amount of the that assets are classified as held for of high-quality corporate bonds that are asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
distribution only when they are available denominated in the currency in which the The recoverable amount of an asset or a for distribution in their present condition benefits will be paid, and that have terms and the distribution is highly probable.
The cash-generating unit is determined based to maturity approximating the terms of the on value-in use calculations prepared on Group and company will apply IFRIC 17 related pension liability.
Other key the basis of managements assumptions from 1st January 2010.
It is not expected assumptions for pension obligations are and estimates.
This determination requires to have a material impact on the Group or based in part on current market conditions.
In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, among e Errors and omissions liability IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and other factors, the duration and extent to During the ordinary course of business the separate financial statements, effective which the fair value of an investment is less Group can be subject to claims for errors from 1st July 2009.
The revised standard than its cost: and the financial health of and omissions made in connection with its requires the effects of all transactions with and near-term business outlook for the broking activities.
noncontrolling interests to be recorded in investment, including factors such as equity if there is no change in control and industry and sector performance, changes these transactions will no longer result in in regional economies and operational goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard and financing cash flow.
also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 57 remeasured to fair value, and a gain or The Group and Company will apply IFRS loss is recognised in profit or loss.
It Group will apply IAS 27 revised is not expected to have a material impact prospectively to transactions with nonon the Group or Companys financial controlling interests from 1st January 2010. statements.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of effective from 1st July 2009.
The amendment is standard continues to apply the acquisition part of the IASBs annual improvements method to business combinations, with project published in April 2009.
For example, all amendment provides clarification that the payments to purchase a business are to be potential settlement of a liability by the recorded at fair value at the acquisition issue of equity is not relevant to its date, with contingent payments classified classification as current or non current.
as debt subsequently re-measured through By amending the definition of current the income statement.
There is a choice on liability, the amendment permits a liability an  basis to to be classified as non-current provided measure the non-controlling interest in the that the entity has an unconditional right to acquiree at fair value or at the nondefer settlement by transfer of cash or other controlling interests proportionate share of assets for at least 12 months after the the acquirees net assets.
All  period notwithstanding the fact related costs should be expensed.
The that the entity could be required by the Group will apply IFRS 3 revised counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
prospectively to all business combinations The group and company will apply IAS 1 from 1st January 2010. amendment from 1st January 2010.
It is not expected to have a material impact on IAS 38 amendment, Intangible Assets.
the Group or Companys financial The amendment is part of the IASBs statements.
annual improvements project published in April 2009 and the Group and Company IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled will apply IAS 38 amendment from the and share-based payment transactions.
date IFRS 3 revised is adopted.
The In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, amendment clarifies guidance in measuring Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 the fair value of an intangible asset Group and treasury share transactions, the acquired in a business combination and it amendments expand on the guidance in permits the grouping of intangible assets as IFRIC 11 to address the classification of a single asset if each asset has similar group arrangements that were not covered useful economic lives.
The amendment will by that interpretation.
The new guidance is not result in a material impact on the not expected to have a material impact on Group or Companys financial statements.
IFRS 5 amendment, Measurement of noncurrent assets or disposal groups classified as held-for-sale.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in April 2009.
The amendment provides clarification that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies that the general requirement of IAS 1 still apply, particularly paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources of estimation uncertainty of IAS 1.
