American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 57 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-fourth Annual General is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of the last Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be independent trade: or c the highest current held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on independent bid: Wednesday, 5th May 2010 at 2.30 p. m. for the following iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash purposes: or prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and determined by the Directors : the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 2009.
3rd November 2011 unless the authority is renewed at the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011 or at any other year ended 31st December 2009. general meeting prior to such time: and 3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of vi the Company may make or contract to purchase shares 11.0 pence per share.
under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of shares 4 To re-elect James Fox as a Director of the Company.
pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
5 To re-elect James Williams as a Director of the Company.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 6 To re-elect Hamish Buchan as a Director of the Company.
9 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of 7 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and any authorities previously granted to the Directors, to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot Special Business relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the To consider the following resolutions: Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 534,074, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this Special Resolution resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the 8 THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with to be held in 2011 unless renewed at a general meeting Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make prior to such time, save that the Company may before such market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which Act of its issued shares of 25p each in the capital of the would or might require relevant securities to be allotted Company ordinary shares.
after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to hereby had not expired.
be purchased shall be 6,404,619 or if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this securities Special Resolution resolution: 10 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to be 25p: allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by be an amount equal to the highest of a 105% of the Resolution 9 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if average of the middle market quotations for a share Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such taken from and calculated by reference to the London allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate days immediately preceding the day on which the share nominal amount of 534,074, representing approximately JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 57 American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 58 Notice of Meeting continued Notes 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net reverse of the proxy form.
asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint the general authority conferred by Resolution 9 above, another person s who need not be a member of the Company save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the or agreements which would or might require equity meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must pursuant of such offers, or agreements as if the power attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the conferred hereby had not expired.
Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint Adoption of new Articles of Association Special Resolution the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using 11.
THAT the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If the voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will i the Articles of Association of the Company be amended exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether by deleting all the provisions formerly in the Companys he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and automatically be terminated.
3 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
initialed by the Chairman of the meeting for the 4 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy purpose of identification be adopted as the new Articles appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last By order of the Board received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards Andrew Norman, for and on behalf of that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited, received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that Secretary share.
11th March 2010 5 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
58 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 59 6 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, arrangement.
must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and 7 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six act as its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the included in the business only must be accompanied by a provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative statement setting out the grounds for the request.
may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated designated corporate representative.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
agreement between him and the member by whom he was 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or the exercise of voting rights.
b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the Company 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, which the members contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to statement placed on the website must also be sent to the exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement members resolutions or members matters of business received available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been Companys website www.
required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
13 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the appointment are available for inspection at the Companys business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member registered office during usual business hours on any weekday attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential contract of service with the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to than those expressly stated.
require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution 15 As at 10th March 2010 being the latest business day prior to the which those members intend to move and which may properly be publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be consists of 42,725,949 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed the total voting rights in the Company are 42,725,949. resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly Electronic appointment CREST members included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
