American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 64 Glossary of Terms Return to Shareholders Performance Attribution Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received performance relative to its benchmark.
were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Return on Net Assets Allocation Effect Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value Measures the effect of allocating assets to countries, sectors or to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the asset types differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
Company were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the Selection Effect shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or shares were quoted ex-dividend.
lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of Benchmark Return investing in securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Gearing Cash Effect mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted exdividend.
Currency Hedge Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should loss arising from the Companys hedging activities.
not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does Management Fees Expenses not follow or track this index and consequently there may be The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total some divergence between the Companys performance and assets and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys that of the benchmark.
Actual Gearing Factor Performance Fee Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as Measures the effect of a performance fee charge or writeback.
This shows the effect of Residual gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the Arises when there is a divergence between total return as portfolio were to increase by 100%.
calculated by Morningstar and total return from the Managers Total Expense Ratio attribution systems.
This is the result of different Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding methodologies and timing differences.
interest, VAT recoverable and performance fees payable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value If the share price of an investment company is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment companys shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
64 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
