American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 60 Appendix The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing of the Companys articles of association by virtue of Section 28 the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been implemented of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited in stages but was fully in force from 1st October 2009.
An explicit statement of the members limited liability addition, the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amend is therefore included in the new Articles.
certain provisions of the 2006 Act relating to meetings of the 3.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares Company came into force in August 2009.
Under Resolution 11, The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital the Company is adopting new Articles of Association the and under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association no Articles which will reflect the changes in company law longer contains a statement of the Companys authorised share brought about by the Shareholders Rights Regulations and by capital.
For existing companies, this statement is deemed to be the provisions of the 2006 Act which came into effect on or a provision of the Companys articles of association setting out before 1st October 2009.
The Articles also include some other the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the modernising and clarifying amendments, including, where Company.
The adoption of the new Articles by the Company appropriate, adopting the wording of the new model form will have the effect of removing this provision relating to the articles for public companies contained in Schedule 3 to the maximum amount.
Directors will still need to obtain the usual Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 the model form shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares, except in articles, which are replacing the Table A articles under the respect of employee share schemes.
1985 Act on which many of the Companys current articles are based.
Set out below is a summary of the principal changes.
References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
The Companys objects The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional 4.
Redeemable shares Article 5 significance of a companys memorandum.
The provisions Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not include governing the operations of the Company are currently set out the terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The in both its memorandum of association and its articles of directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of association.
Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum no longer redemption of redeemable shares provided they are contains an objects clause and simply records the names of the authorised to do so by the articles.
The new Articles contain subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber such authorisation.
agreed to take in the Company.
Share certificates Article 12 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of memorandum are treated as part of the articles with effect consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form from 1 October 2009 but the Company can remove these articles.
Unless the articles provide otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
Transfer of shares Articles 30 and 31 Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of the Companys one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 11 no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts the new 7.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide Articles.
shares, and reduce share capital Article 40 2.
Limited liability Article 3 Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific authorisations Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association also no in its articles of association to purchase its own shares, to longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies do not require statement is automatically treated as having moved into the specific authorisations in their articles of association to articles on 1 October 2009.
As noted in paragraph 1 above, undertake these actions: but shareholder authority is still Resolution 8 confirms the removal, from the Companys required.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to articles of association, of the provisions of the Companys reflect these changes.
memorandum of association which are treated as forming part 60 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Participation in meetings at different places and by electronic many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, means Article 51 when convening a meeting the Company may specify a time, Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which conducting of electronic meetings.
The new Articles include a person must be entered on the register of members in order amendments to provide greater scope for members to to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This new participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not provision is in line with a requirement for listed companies present in person at the principal place where the meeting is introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The amendments allow for members to participate 13.
Validity of votes Article 67 not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights by any other electronic means of participation.
Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in 9.
Adjournments Article 53 accordance with instructions given to them by members.
The The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a provision to the new Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is 2006 Act which requires that, when a general meeting is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice must representative has voted in accordance with instructions given be given to reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles include to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate amendments to the provisions dealing with notice of adjourned representative will be valid even if he has not voted in meetings to make them consistent with this new requirement.
Removal of chairmans casting vote 14.
Termination of proxy authority Article 73 Pursuant to changes brought about by the Shareholders Article 73 provides that the termination of a proxys authority Rights Regulations, a traded company is no longer permitted to should be in writing as this is required by the Shareholders allow the chairman to have a casting vote in the event of an Rights Regulations.
Accordingly, this provision has been removed 15.
Corporate representatives Article 75 in the new Articles.
The new Articles provide that the Company can require a 11.
Voting rights Article 62 corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various resolution appointing him before permitting him to exercise his powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members powers.
in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Retirement of directors by rotation Articles 81 and 82 proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one The new Articles have been redrafted in order to make this vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more provision clearer and to ensure as far as possible a regular than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and number of retiring directors each year, with the number to one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by more than retire being the number nearest to one-third of the board, one member to vote for the resolution and by more than one excluding those directors who are retiring and seeking member to vote against the resolution.
Where a corporate re-election for other reasons.
Article 81 continues to comply member appoints representatives to attend meetings on its with Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which recommends that behalf, each representative duly appointed by a corporate all directors should be subject to re-election at intervals of member has one vote on a show of hands.
The new Articles no more than three years.
New Article 82 requires any contain provisions which clarify these rights and also clarify non-executive director other than the chairman who has held how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of office for nine years or more to put himself up for re-election at hands should apply to discretionary powers.
This is in line with Combined 12.
Voting record date Article 63 Code provision A.
The new Articles include a new provision which was not 17.
Alternate directors Articles 88, 90 and 92 previously in the Companys articles of association, dealing Article 88 now clarifies that an alternate director is entitled to with the method for determining which persons are allowed to be paid expenses but not directors fees.
Article 90 is a new attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how provision which effectively applies the provisions of Article 86, JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 61 American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 62 Appendix continued regarding removal of directors, to alternate directors.
Article Article 101, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in 92 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject to the same our current articles, allowing directors to be interested in restrictions as the director who appointed him.
transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or interested in a body corporate in which the company is 18.
Borrowing powers Article 94 interested provided that he has disclosed his interest in A number of presentational and descriptive amendments have accordance with the articles and the provisions of the Acts, has been made to the borrowing powers provision: been amended so that it contains provisions relating to i Article 94 1 a a reference has been added to amounts confidential information, attendance at board meetings and credited as paid up on share capital to clarify that these availability of board papers to protect a director from being in should be included as well as amounts actually paid up.
breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the ii Article 94 1 b this has been amended to refer to total of position giving rise to the potential conflict falls within the any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable situations covered by Article 101. reserves of the Group, to clarify that all reserves of the Group will be relevant for the calculation and to reflect the 21.
Procedures regarding board meetings and resolution in writing language used by those preparing the accounts.
The Articles 103 and 106 reference to including share premium account, capital The provisions of Article 103 have been amended to make it redemption reserve and credit balance on the profit and clear that notice of a board meeting may be given personally, loss account reserve has therefore been deleted.
by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
The requirements for giving notice to directors who are not in the iii Article 94 1 the last paragraph has been amended to United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify the allow the company also to adjust for variations in its capital procedure for written resolutions of directors, Article 106 has redemption reserve since the balance sheet date as the been amended so that, rather than referring to a resolution in directors may reasonably consider to be appropriate.
writing by all directors, a resolution in writing will be valid and iv Articles 94 1 a and 94 3 e additional wording has been effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting if executed by all included to clarify how any preference shares that might be the directors entitled to receive notice of the meeting and who issued should be treated for the purposes of the borrowing would have been entitled to vote and whose vote would have powers.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP preference shares are been counted on a resolution at a meeting.
now treated as a debt on a companys balance sheet, rather 22.
The additional wording included in Articles The proposed amendment to Article 107, which deals with the 94 1 a and 94 3 e reflects this accounting treatment.
The quorum requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a effect of this wording is to exclude the amount of any director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution preference share capital from the calculation of the on which he is not entitled to vote or when his vote cannot be Companys share capital and reserves and to include such counted but he may count in the quorum for the other matters amount in the calculation of the Companys borrowings.
or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 95 23.
Permitted interests and voting Article 108 Article 95 follows the new, simplified approach to delegation Article 108 has been amended to allow a director to vote on a adopted in the model form articles, allowing the directors to resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding delegate as they decide appropriate.
for expenditure incurred in defending proceedings provided all 20.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of interest the other directors have been given or are to be given Article 101 arrangements on substantially the same terms.
This exception 62 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp56 64 11 3 10 9:22 am Page 63 has become a common exception for listed companies to include.
Notice when post not available Article 127 Article 127 is the article covering service of notice in the event of a postal strike.
It has been amended to allow the Company in such circumstances to serve notices only on those members who receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as before, the Company also puts an advert in two national newspapers and sends a confirmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available again within seven days of the meeting.
The seal Articles 136 and 137 Article 136 provides an alternative option in the absence of specific instructions from the directors for documents other than share certificates to which the seal is affixed to be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, in addition to either two directors or a director the secretary.
Change of name Article 139 Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
