American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 31 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs by JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for responsibility of JPMAM.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Responsibility Statement consistently: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable prudent: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have Company: and been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is position of the Company, together with a description of the inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys For and on behalf of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time James Fox the financial position of the Company and enable them to Director ensure that the financial statements comply with the 11th March 2010 Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
