Appendix Explanatory Notes to Resolution 11 memorandum of association which are treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association by virtue of Section 28 The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been liability.
An explicit statement of the members limited liability implemented in stages but is fully in force from 1st October is therefore included in the new Articles.
In addition, the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amend certain provisions of the 2006 Act relating to meetings 3.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares of the Company came into force in August 2009.
Under Resolution 11, the Company is adopting new Articles of The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share Association the Articles which will reflect the changes in capital and under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of company law brought about by the Shareholders Rights association no longer contains a statement of the Companys Regulations and by the provisions of the 2006 Act which came authorised share capital.
For existing companies, this into effect on or before 1st October 2009.
The Articles also statement is deemed to be a provision of the Companys include some other modernising and clarifying amendments, articles of association setting out the maximum amount of including, where appropriate, adopting the wording of the shares that may be allotted by the Company.
The adoption of new model form articles for public companies contained in the new Articles by the Company will have the effect of Schedule 3 to the Companies Model Articles Regulations removing this provision relating to the maximum amount.
2008 the model form articles, which are replacing the Table Directors will still need to obtain the usual shareholders A articles under the 1985 Act on which many of the Companys authorisation in order to allot shares.
Set out below is a summary of the References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares principal changes.
have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
Redeemable shares Article 5 The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not significance of a companys memorandum.
The provisions include the terms on which redeemable shares may be governing the operations of the Company are currently set out redeemed.
The Directors may determine the terms, conditions in both its memorandum of association and its articles of and manner of redemption of redeemable shares provided association.
Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum no longer they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The new Articles contains an objects clause and simply records the names of contain such authorisation.
the subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber agreed to take in the Company.
Share certificates Article 13 of the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the memorandum are treated as part of the articles with The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of effect from 1st October 2009 but the Company can remove consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form these provisions by special resolution.
provide otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
The Company is proposing to remove its objects clause 6.
Transfer of shares Articles 31 and 32 together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration by virtue of the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of the of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any Companys articles of association as of 1st October 2009. one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is Resolution 11 confirms the removal of these provisions and no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide 2.
Limited liability Article 3 shares, and reduce share capital Article 44 Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association also Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific no longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the authorisations in its articles of association to purchase its own members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its statement is automatically treated as having moved into the share capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies do not articles on 1st October 2009.
As noted in paragraph 1 above, require specific authorisations in their articles of association to Resolution 11 confirms the removal, from the Companys undertake these actions, but shareholder authority is still articles of association, of the provisions of the Companys JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 59 Appendix continued required.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to 12.
Voting record date Article 67 reflect these changes.
The new Articles include a new provision which was not previously in the Companys articles of association, dealing 8.
Participation in meetings at different places and by electronic with the method for determining which persons are allowed to means Article 55 attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and when convening a meeting the Company may specify a time, conducting of electronic meetings.
The new Articles include not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting amendments to provide greater scope for members to excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not which a person must be entered on the register of members present in person at the principal place where the meeting is in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The amendments allow for members to participate This new provision is in line with a requirement for listed not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also companies introduced by the Shareholders Rights by any other electronic means of participation.
Validity of votes Article 71 The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a provision to the Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights 2006 Act which requires that, when a general meeting is Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice accordance with instructions given to them by members.
must be given to reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles The new Articles contain a provision stating that the Company include amendments to the provisions dealing with notice of is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate adjourned meetings to make them consistent with this new representative has voted in accordance with instructions given requirement.
to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate representative will be valid even if he has not voted in 10.
Removal of chairmans casting vote accordance with his instructions.
Pursuant to changes brought about by the Shareholders 14.
Termination of proxy authority Article 77 Rights Regulations, a traded company is no longer permitted to allow the chairman to have a casting vote in the event of an Article 77 provides that the termination of a proxys authority equality of votes.
Accordingly, this provision has been should be in writing as this is required by the Shareholders removed in the new Articles.
Corporate representatives Article 79 The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various The new Articles provide that the Company can require a powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a resolution appointing him before permitting him to exercise proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one his powers.
vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote 16.
Retirement of directors by rotation Articles 85 and 86 for and one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by The new Articles have been redrafted in order to make this more than one member to vote for the resolution and by more provision clearer and to ensure as far as possible a regular than one member to vote against the resolution.
Where a number of retiring directors each year, with the number to corporate member appoints representatives to attend retire being the number nearest to one-third of the board, meetings on its behalf, each representative duly appointed excluding those directors who are retiring and seeking reby a corporate member has one vote on a show of hands.
Article 85 continues to comply with The new Articles contain provisions which clarify these rights Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which recommends that all and also clarify how the provisions giving a proxy a second directors should be subject to re-election at intervals of no vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary powers.
New Article 86 requires any nonexecutive director who has held office for nine years or more 60 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 to put himself up for re-election at each annual general 20.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of interest meeting.
This is in line with Combined Code provision A.
Article 104 Article 104, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in 17.
Alternate directors Articles 92, 94 and 96 our current articles, allowing directors to be interested in Article 92 now clarifies that an alternate director is entitled to transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or be paid expenses but not directors fees.
Article 94 is a new interested in a body corporate in which the Company is provision which effectively applies the provisions of Article 90, interested provided that he has disclosed his interest in regarding removal of directors, to alternate directors.
Article accordance with the articles and the provisions of the Acts, 96 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject to the same has been amended so that it contains provisions relating to restrictions as the director who appointed him.
confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director from being in 18.
Borrowing powers Article 98 breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the A number of presentational and descriptive amendments have position giving rise to the potential conflict falls within the been made to the borrowing powers provision: situations covered by Article 104. i Article 98 1 a a reference has been added to amounts credited as paid up on share capital to clarify that these 21.
Procedures regarding board meetings & resolution in writing should be included as well as amounts actually paid up.
Articles 106 & 109 ii Article 98 1 b this has been amended to refer to total of The provisions of Article 106 have been amended to make any credit balance on the distributable and it clear that notice of a board meeting may be given undistributable reserves of the Group, to clarify that all personally, by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
reserves of the Group will be relevant for the calculation The requirements for giving notice to directors who are not in and to reflect the language used by those preparing the the United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify accounts.
The reference to including share premium the procedure for written resolutions of directors, Article 109 account, capital redemption reserve and credit balance on has been amended so that, rather than referring to a the profit and loss account reserve has therefore been resolution in writing by all directors, a resolution in writing will deleted.
be valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting if executed by all the directors entitled to receive notice of the iii Article 98 1 the last paragraph has been amended to meeting and who would have been entitled to vote allow the Company also to adjust for variations in its and whose vote would have been counted on a resolution capital redemption reserve since the balance sheet date as at a meeting.
the directors may reasonably consider to be appropriate.
iv Articles 98 1 a and 98 3 e additional wording has been 22.
Quorum Article 110 included to clarify how any preference shares that might The proposed amendment to Article 110, which deals with the be issued should be treated for the purposes of the quorum requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a borrowing powers.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP preference director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution shares are now treated as a debt on a companys balance on which he is not entitled to vote or when his vote cannot be sheet, rather than equity.
The additional wording included counted but he may count in the quorum for the other in Articles 104 3 c and 104 1 e reflects this accounting matters or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the treatment.
The effect of this wording is to exclude the meeting.
amount of any preference share capital from the calculation of the Companys share capital and reserves 23.
Permitted interests and voting article 111 and to include such amount in the calculation of the Companys borrowings.
Article 111 has been amended to allow a director to vote on a resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding 19.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 99 for expenditure incurred in defending proceedings provided all the other directors have been given or are to be given Article 99 follows the new, simplified approach to delegation arrangements on substantially the same terms.
This exception adopted in the model form articles, allowing the directors to has become a common exception for listed companies to delegate as they decide appropriate.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 61 Appendix continued 24.
Notice when post not available Article 131 Article 131 is the article covering service of notice in the event of a postal strike.
It has been amended to allow the Company in such circumstances to serve notices only on those members who receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as before, the Company also puts an advertisement in two national newspapers and sends a confirmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available again within seven days of the meeting.
The seal Articles 140 and 141 Article 140 provides that instruments other than share certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either a director and the secretary or two directors.
Change of name Article 143 Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advanatage of this provision, the new Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
62 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
