Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirteenth Annual General Resolution 8 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Meeting of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc will be held at Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, The Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London, EC2Y 5DE on Monday provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of 1st February 2010 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,062,552 representing approximately 10% of the issued 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this and the Auditors Report for the year ended resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per 30th September 2009. share and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the conferred by Resolution 8 above, save that the Company may year ended 30th September 2009. before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry 3 To declare a final dividend on the Ordinary shares.
and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity 4 To re-elect Mr James Long as a Director.
securities in pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
5 To elect Mr James Strachan as a Director.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special 6 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to Resolution the Company.
10 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter 7 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with of the Auditors.
Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the Special Business meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such To consider the following resolutions: manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT 8 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and Subscription generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 24,359,065 any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant and 4,422,927 respectively, or if less, that number of Ordinary to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act shares or Subscription shares which is equal to 14.99% of the 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to issued share capital of the relevant share class as at the date of allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe the passing of this Resolution: for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,062,552, ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and 1 pence Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this respectively: resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to an amount equal to the highest of a 105% of the average of be held in 2011 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to the middle market quotations for a share of that class of share such time, save that the Company may before such expiry taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock make offers or agreements which would or might require Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry immediately preceding the day on which the share is and so that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and contracted to be purchased or b the price of the last grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as securities Special Resolution determined by the Directors : 9 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out above, v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30th June the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 2011 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Annual empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to General Meeting in 2011 or at any other general meeting prior allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of to such time: and the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 56 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of respect of that share.
such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not Adoption of new Articles of Association Special Resolution more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, 11 THAT i the Articles of Association of the Company be that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of amended by deleting all the provisions formerly in the votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered Section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of meeting or adjourned meeting.
identification be adopted as the new Articles of Association of 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to act as its By order of the Board representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of each such representative s may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Secretary Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is 15th December 2009 therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their Notes appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any form.
matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint another report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than since the previous AGM: which the members propose to raise at the meeting.
one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the that the Company has been required to publish on its website pursuant to this Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the be answered at the AGM any question relating to the business being dealt with at proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both the AGM which is put by a member attending the meeting except in certain as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not good order of the meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the information.
Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the threshold 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, the instructions given on the proxy form.
to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
resolution which those members intend to move and which may properly be The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the matter properly included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and pursuant to this right may be in had copy or electronic form, must identify the JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 57 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanies by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website www.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 14th December 2009 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 162,502,108 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each and 29,505,851 Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 162,502,108.
Electronic appointment CREST members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
58 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
