Glossary of Terms Unit Return to Shareholders Benchmark Return Total return to the Unit holder on a mid-market price to midTotal return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to midmarket price basis, assuming that all dividends received were market value basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested in the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at the the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
reinvestment are not taken into account.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should A Unit comprises 5 Ordinary shares and 1 Subscription share.
not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy Return to Ordinary Shareholders does not follow or track this index and consequently, there Total return to the Ordinary shareholder on a mid-market may be some divergence between the Companys price to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends performance and that of the benchmark.
received were reinvested in the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Actual Gearing Factor Transaction costs of reinvestment are not taken into account.
Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the NAV if the Diluted Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share market value of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
The diluted NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all outstanding Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary Total Expense Ratio shares at the year end.
There were no dilutive potential Management fees and all other operating expenses excluding Ordinary shares in issue at 30th September 2008. interest and performance fees paid, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Diluted Return on Net Assets Return on the diluted NAV, on a bid value to bid value basis, Total Expense Ratio Including Performance Fee assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were Management fees, all other operating expenses and reinvested in the shares of the Company at the diluted NAV performance fees paid, but excluding interest, expressed per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which net assets.
have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from the diluted NAV when calculating the Share Price Discount to Diluted NAV per Ordinary Share diluted return on net assets.
If the share price of an investment company is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a Undiluted Return on Net Assets discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
Return on the undiluted NAV per share, on a bid value to bid The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the for an investment companys shares to trade at a discount Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the than a premium.
undiluted NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Return Loss per Ordinary Share Diluted In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which The diluted return loss per Ordinary share represents the have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet return loss on ordinary activities after taxation divided by date are deducted from the undiluted NAV when calculating weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the undiluted return on net assets.
the year as adjusted for the conversion of outstanding Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at the year end.
For this purpose, the assumed proceeds from this conversion are regarded as having been received from the issue of Ordinary shares at the average market price of Ordinary shares during the year.
The difference between the number of Ordinary shares issued and the number of Ordinary shares JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 63 Glossary of Terms continued that would have been issued at the average market price of Performance Attribution Definitions: Ordinary shares during the year is treated as an issue of Asset Allocation Ordinary shares for no consideration.
Where this calculation has no dilutive effect, the undiluted return loss per share is Measures the impact of allocating assets differently from those presented instead.
in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Return Loss per Ordinary Share Undiluted The undiluted return loss per Ordinary share represents the Stock Selection return loss on ordinary activities after taxation divided by Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of during the year.
investing in securities outside the benchmark.
Active Position Gearing Cash The active position shows the difference between the Companys holding of an individual stock, sector or country Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash versus that stock, sector or countrys benchmark.
A positive balances on the Companys relative performance.
number indicates an active decision by the investment manager to own more i. e. be overweight of that stock, sector Currency Effect or country versus the benchmark and a negative number, a Measures the impact of currency exposure differences decision to hold less i. e. be underweight of a particular stock, between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
sector or country versus the benchmark.
Management Fees Other Expenses Performance Attribution The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance relative to its benchmark.
64 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
