Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 30th September Final results announced December Half year end 31st March Half year results announced May Dividend on Ordinary shares paid February Subscription share exercise dates Any business day between 1st April 2009 and 31st March 2014 Interim Management Statements announced February and July Annual General Meeting February History Share Transactions The Company was launched in September 1997 as a rollover vehicle The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker for shareholders in The Fleming Far Eastern Investment Trust plc.
or through a professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
The Company adopted its present name following approval from They may also be purchased and held through the JPMorgan shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in February 2006.
Investment Trust Share Plan, Individual Savings Account ISA and the Pension Account.
Life of the Company Manager and Secretary Under the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors are required to propose a resolution that the Company continue as an JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited.
investment trust at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and every third year thereafter.
Companys Registered Office Finsbury Dials Company Numbers 20 Finsbury Street Companys registration number: 3374850 London EC2Y 9AQ Telephone number: 020 7742 6000 Ordinary shares Please contact Alison Vincent for company secretarial and London Stock Exchange Sedol number: 0132077 administrative matters.
ISIN: GB0001320778 Bloomberg code: JAI LN Registrars Equiniti Subscription shares Reference 1357 London Stock Exchange Sedol number: B3KHYY3 Aspect House ISIN: GB00B3KHYY38 Spencer Road Bloomberg code: JAIS LN Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Market Information Telephone number: 0871 384 2373 The Companys net asset value NAV is published daily, via the Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share London Stock Exchange.
The Companys Ordinary shares are listed certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the on the London Stock Exchange and are quoted daily in the Financial Registrar quoting reference 1357.
Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman, The Independent and on the J. P. Morgan website at www.
co. uk, Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings where the Ordinary share price is updated every fifteen minutes on the internet by visiting www.
Auditors The Companys Subscription share price is listed on the London Stock  LLP Exchange and quoted daily in the Financial Times and on the J. P. Morgan website at www.
co. uk, where the Subscription Hays Galleria 1 Hays Lane share price is updated every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
co. uk Cenkos Securities plc 6, 7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AS Savings Products Administrators For queries on the JPMorgan ISA, Share Plan or Pension Account, A member of the AIC see contact details on the back cover of this report.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
