Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and www.
co. uk website, which is maintained regulations.
by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for website maintained by JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the required to: assets, liabilities, financial position and net return or loss of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company: and consistently: b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and development and performance of the business and the prudent: position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and For and on behalf of the Board prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is Roy Reynolds, inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue Chairman in business.
30th September 2009 The Directors confirm that they comply with these requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
