Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Eighteenth Annual General allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by will be held at the Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London EC2Y 5DE Resolution 7 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if on 30th October 2009 at 3.00 p. m. for the following purposes: Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2009. nominal amount of 1,379,398 representing approximately 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the year ended 30th June 2009. passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 3 To approve a final dividend of 3.2p per share.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 7 above, save 4 To elect Percy Mistry as a Director of the Company.
that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities 5 To re-elect Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the Company.
to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of 6 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had their remuneration.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution Special Business 9 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter To consider the following resolutions: appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary 7 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant Subscription shares hereby authorised to be purchased rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shall be 16,541,747 and 3,299,545 respectively, or if less, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate that number of Ordinary shares or Subscription shares nominal amount of 1,379,398, representing approximately which is equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this this Resolution: authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and the Company may before such expiry make offers or 1 pence respectively: agreements which would or might require shares to be iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so be an amount equal to the highest of a 105% of the that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and average of the middle market quotations for a share of grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as that class of share taken from and calculated by if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant List for the five business days immediately preceding securities Special Resolution the day on which the share is contracted to be 8 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 7 set out above, purchased or b the price of the last independent trade: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby or c the highest current independent bid: empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 57 Notice of Meeting continued Notes iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
share as determined by the Directors : 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the 29th October 2014 unless the authority is renewed at Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or at the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the any other general meeting prior to such time: and rights attaching to different shares held by him.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person of such authority which contract will or may be who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or to any such contract.
proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend Adoption of new Articles of Association Special Resolution the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies 10 THAT does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy i the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by appointment will automatically be terminated.
deleting all the provisions formerly in the Companys 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section 28 accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also of the Companys Articles of Association: and applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the identification be adopted as the new Articles of Association same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards the existing Articles of Association.
that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting Secretary the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more 30th September 2009 than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
58 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy proxy form, a member resolution which may properly be included in the business at the can appoint a proxy electronically by visiting www.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly You will need your Voting I. D. Task I. D. and Shareholder Reference included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only Number it is the series of numbers printed under your name on it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any the proxy form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or submit your proxy form at www.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard are given on both websites.
The proxy appointment and copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which instructions should reach Equiniti Registrars not less than 48 hours notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, before the time appointed for the holding of the AGM or any must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for adjournment thereof.
You are advised to read the terms and the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and conditions of use carefully.
Any electronic communication found to must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a 7.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their statement setting out the grounds for the request.
proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons 8.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the agreement between him and the member by whom he was Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have designated corporate representative.
such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
the exercise of voting rights.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the 13.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of members resolutions or members matters of business received the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
Company cannot require the members requesting the 14.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later appointment are available for inspection at the Companys than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
registered office during usual business hours on any weekday The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be statement that the Company has been required to publish on its available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director website pursuant to this right.
has any contract of service with the Company.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 15.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member than those expressly stated.
attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order 16.
As at 29th September 2009 being the latest business day prior to of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital information.
consists of 110,351,883 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each and 22,011,642 Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting total voting rights in the Company are 110,351,883. the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company Electronic appointment CREST members entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the which those members intend to move and which may properly be CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
