Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and www.
co. uk website, which is regulations.
maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM is, so far as it each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Accounting Standards and applicable law.
12 required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the year and of the The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: total return for the year.
In preparing those accounts, the a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable Directors are required to: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them assets, liabilities, financial position and return or loss of the consistently: Company: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the prudent: development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the state whether applicable accounting standards have been principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is For and on behalf of the Board inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue E Elliis sa ab be et th h A Aiir re ey y in business.
Chairman 1st June 2009 The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with these requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
30 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
