Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General meaning of Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the Meeting of JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust authority conferred by Resolution 7 as if Section 89 1 of plc will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that London EC2R 5BJ on Tuesday 7th July 2009 at 12.00 noon for this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity the following purposes: securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 588,246, representing approximately 5% of the total 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st March 2009. resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the per share and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual year ended 31st March 2009.
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that 3 To re-elect Elisabeth Airey as a Director of the Company.
the Company may before such expiry make offers, 4 To re-elect Paul Manduca as a Director of the Company.
agreements or arrangements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry 5 To re-elect Michael Wrobel as a Director of the Company.
and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity 6 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to securities in pursuant of such offers, agreements or the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not their remuneration.
Special Business Authority to repurchase shares Special Resolution To consider the following resolutions: 9 THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of 7 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each in generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution the capital of the Company.
of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 588,246, authorised to be purchased shall be 7,054,241 or if representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued less, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to ordinary share captial as at the date of the passing of this 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at resolution and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual the date of the passing of this resolution: General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that share shall be 25 pence: the Company may before such expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or might iii the maximum price which may be paid for an require relevant securtities to be allotted after such expiry ordinary share shall be an amount equal to a and so that the Directors of the Company may allot 105 per cent of the average of the middle market relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, quotations for an ordinary share taken from and agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred calculated by reference to the London Stock hereby had not expired.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of new ordinary share is purchased or b the price of the shares Special Resolution last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: 8 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 7 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the 52 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the an aggregate nominal amount of 1,176,491, representing market for cash at prices below the prevailing net approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share asset value per ordinary share as determined by the capital in issue as at the date of the passing of this Directors : resolution and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, 6th January 2011 unless the authority is renewed at save that the Company may before such expiry make the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or at offers, agreements or arrangements which would or any other general meeting prior to such time: and might require equity securities to be allotted after such vi the Company may make a contract to purchase expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred equity securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a or arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such expired.
By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of Authority to sell shares from Treasury Special Resolution JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, 10 THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised, for the Secretary purposes of paragraph 12.6 of the Listing Rules of the 1st June 2009 United Kingdom Listing Authority, to sell ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company at a price Notes below the net asset value per share of the existing ordinary shares in issue, provided always that such issue These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
will be limited to: 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint another i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,176,491, person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of representing approximately 10% of the total ordinary his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more share capital in issue as at the date of the passing of than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed this resolution: to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
ii the sale of shares which, immediately before such sale, 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the were held by the Company as Treasury shares: and Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
iii such number of ordinary shares and such reissue Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or prices that, in the year to the Companys 2010 Annual proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting General Meeting, the aggregate dilution associated box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
with all the reissues does not exceed 2.88 pence per Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or share, being approximately 0.5% of the net asset proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
value per share as at 31st March 2009.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on sale of shares from 3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have Treasury Special Resolution been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of 11 THAT subject to the passing of resolution 10 set out above, the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a within the meaning of Section 94 3A of the Act equity proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a wholly for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the to any such sale, provided that this power shall be limited exercise of voting rights.
to the allotment within the meaning of Section 94 3A of 4 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the Act of equity securities for cash out of Treasury up to the instructions given on the proxy form.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 53 Notice of Meeting continued 5 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
Electronic appointment CREST members The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same See further instructions on the proxy form.
share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as its representatives and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
11 As at 29th May 2009 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 48,713,323 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 47,059,653.
The shares held in Treasury, totalling 1,653,670, do not carry voting rights.
54 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Glossary of Terms Return to shareholders Small and Micro Cap Companies Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to midThe Companys investment universe is defined at the time of market price basis, assuming that all dividends received were purchase by the countries and market capitalisation range of reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time the shares the constituents of the benchmark index, the HSBC Smaller were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of reinvestment European Companies ex UK Index.
At the time of writing the are not taken into account.
index consisted of 1,000 companies with a market capitalisation of between 25m and 1.6bn: the average market Return on net assets capitalisation of the Companys small cap and micro cap holdings was 1.2bn and 0.4bn respectively.
Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid market value to bid market value basis, assuming that all Performance Attribution dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded shares were quoted ex-dividend.
performance relative to its benchmark.
Benchmark Return Performance Attribution Definitions: Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Asset Allocation mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
countries, sectors or asset types.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Stock Selection not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or does not follow or track this index and consequently, there lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of may be some divergence between the Companys investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
performance and that of the stated index.
Gearing Cash Actual Gearing Factor Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed balances on the Companys relative performance.
as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect Management Fees Other Expenses of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative Total Expense Ratio TER performance.
Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding Residual interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out Net asset value per share assuming the reissue of Treasury shares by the Investment Trust and total return from the attribution The resulting diluted net asset value NAV per share systems includes dividend income received on the stocks held assuming all shares held in Treasury have been reissued in by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of methodologies and accordance with the Boards current policy on the reissuance timing differences.
Share Buyback Issuance Discount Premium Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the If the share price of an investment company is lower than the number of shares in issue.
net asset value NAV per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment companys shares to trade at a discount than a premium.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 55 JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 0207 742 9999 9.00 am to 5.3o pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
