Glossary of Terms Return to Shareholders Performance Attribution Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received performance relative to its benchmark.
were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of Performance Attribution Definitions: reinvestment are not taken into account.
Asset Allocation Return on Net Assets Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the countries, sectors or asset types.
Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the Stock Selection NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
date are deducted from the NAV when calculating the total Gearing Cash return on net assets.
Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash Benchmark Return balances on the Companys relative performance.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Currency mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the impact of currency exposure differences were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Management Fees Other Expenses The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does performance.
not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and VAT Recovery that of the benchmark.
In 2007, HM Revenue & Customs announced acceptance that VAT was not chargeable on investment trust management fees.
Actual Gearing Factor The Company has since been able to recover VAT on Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed management fees paid in the past, plus interest thereon.
as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the Residual portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by Morningstar and total return from JPMAM Total Expense Ratio TER attribution systems which is a result of different methodologies Management fees and all other operating expenses excluding and timing differences.
interest and VAT recoverable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV If the share price of an investment company is lower than the NAV per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment companys shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
64 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
