Appendix The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing Resolution 10 confirms the removal, from the Companys the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been implemented articles of association, of the provisions of the Companys in stages but is fully in force from 1st October 2009.
In addition, memorandum of association which are treated as forming part the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amend certain of the Companys articles of association by virtue of Section 28 provisions of the 2006 Act relating to meetings of the Company of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited came into force in August 2009.
An explicit statement of the members limited liability Company is adopting new Articles of Association the Articles is therefore included in the new Articles.
which will reflect the changes in company law brought about 3.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares by the Shareholders Rights Regulations and by the provisions The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital of the 2006 Act which came into effect on or before 1st October and under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association no 2009.
The Articles also include some other modernising and longer contains a statement of the Companys authorised share clarifying amendments, including, where appropriate, adopting capital.
For existing companies, this statement is deemed to be the wording of the new model form articles for public a provision of the Companys articles of association setting out companies contained in Schedule 3 to the Companies Model the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the Articles Regulations 2008 the model form articles, which Company.
The adoption of the new Articles by the Company are replacing the Table A articles under the 1985 Act on which will have the effect of removing this provision relating to the many of the Companys current articles are based.
Directors will still need to obtain the usual below is a summary of the principal changes.
shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares.
The Companys objects References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
The provisions governing the operations of the Company are currently set 4.
Redeemable shares Article 5 out in both its memorandum of association and its articles of Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not include association.
Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum no longer the terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The contains an objects clause and simply records the names of the Directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber redemption of redeemable shares provided they are agreed to take in the Company.
Under Section 28 of the 2006 authorised to do so by the articles.
The new Articles contain Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the such authorisation.
memorandum are treated as part of the articles with effect 5.
Share certificates Article 12 from 1st October 2009 but the Company can remove these The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of provisions by special resolution.
Unless the articles provide consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue 6.
Transfer of shares Articles 30 and 31 of the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of the Companys The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration articles of association as of 1st October 2009.
Resolution 10 of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts the one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is new Articles.
no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association also shares, and reduce share capital Article 41 no longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific authorisations members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this in its articles of association to purchase its own shares, to statement is automatically treated as having moved into the consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share articles on 1st October 2009.
As noted in paragraph 1 above, capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies do not require 60 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 specific authorisations in their articles of association to 12.
Voting record date Article 64 undertake these actions, but shareholder authority is still The new Articles include a new provision which was not required.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to previously in the Companys articles of association, dealing reflect these changes.
with the method for determining which persons are allowed to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how 8.
Participation in meetings at different places and by electronic many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, means Article 52 when convening a meeting the Company may specify a time, Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which conducting of electronic meetings.
The new Articles include a person must be entered on the register of members in order amendments to provide greater scope for members to to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This new participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not provision is in line with a requirement for listed companies present in person at the principal place where the meeting is introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The amendments allow for members to participate not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also 13.
Validity of votes Article 68 by any other electronic means of participation.
Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in 9.
Adjournments Article 54 accordance with instructions given to them by members.
The The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a provision to the new Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is 2006 Act which requires that, when a general meeting is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice must representative has voted in accordance with instructions be given to reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles include given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate amendments to the provisions dealing with notice of adjourned representative will be valid even if he has not voted in meetings to make them consistent with this new requirement.
Removal of chairmans casting vote 14.
Termination of proxy authority Article 74 Pursuant to changes brought about by the Shareholders Article 74 provides that the termination of a proxys authority Rights Regulations, a traded company is no longer permitted should be in writing as this is required by the Shareholders to allow the chairman to have a casting vote in the event of an Rights Regulations.
Accordingly, this provision has been removed in the new Articles.
Corporate representatives Article 76 The new Articles provide that the Company can require a 11.
Voting rights Article 63 corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various resolution appointing him before permitting him to exercise powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members his powers.
in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one 16.
Retirement of directors by rotation Articles 82 and 83 vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more The new Articles have been redrafted in order to make this than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and provision clearer and to ensure as far as possible a regular one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by more than number of retiring directors each year, with the number to one member to vote for the resolution and by more than one retire being the number nearest to one-third of the board, member to vote against the resolution.
Where a corporate excluding those directors who are retiring and seeking member appoints representatives to attend meetings on its re-election for other reasons.
Article 82 continues to comply behalf, each representative duly appointed by a corporate with Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which recommends that member has one vote on a show of hands.
The new Articles all directors should be subject to re-election at intervals of contain provisions which clarify these rights and also clarify no more than three years.
New Article 83 requires any how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of non-executive director other than the chairman who has held hands should apply to discretionary powers.
office for nine years or more to put himself up for re-election JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 61 Appendix continued at each annual general meeting.
This is in line with Combined 20.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of interest Code provision A.
Article 101 Article 101, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in 17.
Alternate directors Articles 89, 91 and 93 our current articles, allowing directors to be interested in Article 89 now clarifies that an alternative director is entitled transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or to be paid expenses but not directors fees.
Article 91 is a interested in a body corporate in which the Company is new provision which effectively applies the provisions of interested provided that he has disclosed his interest in Article 87, regarding removal of directors, to alternate accordance with the articles and the provisions of the Acts, directors.
Article 93 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject has been amended so that it contains provisions relating to to the same restrictions as the director who appointed him.
confidential information, attendance at board meetings and 18.
Borrowing powers Article 95 availability of board papers to protect a director from being A number of presentational and descriptive amendments have in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict been made to the borrowing powers provision: of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict falls within the i Article 95 1 a a reference has been added to amounts situations covered by Article 101. credited as paid up on share capital to clarify that these should be included as well as amounts actually paid up.
Procedures regarding board meetings & resolution in writing Articles 103 & 106 ii Article 95 1 b this has been amended to refer to total of The provisions of Article 103 have been amended to make it any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable clear that notice of a board meeting may be given personally, reserves of the Group, to clarify that all reserves of the by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
The Group will be relevant for the calculation and to reflect the requirements for giving notice to directors who are not in the language used by those preparing the accounts.
The United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify the reference to including share premium account, capital procedure for written resolutions of directors, Article 106 has redemption reserve and credit balance on the profit and been amended so that, rather than referring to a resolution in loss account reserve has therefore been deleted.
writing by all directors, a resolution in writing will be valid and iii Article 95 1 the last paragraph has been amended to effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting if executed by all allow the Company also to adjust for variations in its capital the directors entitled to receive notice of the meeting and who redemption reserve since the balance sheet date as the would have been entitled to vote and whose vote would have directors may reasonably consider to be appropriate.
been counted on a resolution at a meeting.
iv Articles 95 1 a and 95 3 e additional wording has been 22.
Quorum Article 107 included to clarify how any preference shares that might be The proposed amendment to Article 107, which deals with the issued should be treated for the purposes of the borrowing quorum requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a powers.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP preference shares are director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution now treated as a debt on a companys balance sheet, rather on which he is not entitled to vote or when his vote cannot be than equity.
The additional wording included in Articles counted but he may count in the quorum for the other matters 95 1 a and 95 3 e reflects this accounting treatment.
The or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
effect of this wording is to exclude the amount of any 23.
Permitted interests and voting article 108 preference share capital from the calculation of the Article 108 has been amended to allow a director to vote on a Companys share capital and reserves and to include such resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding amount in the calculation of the Companys borrowings.
for expenditure incurred in defending proceedings provided 19.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 96 all the other directors have been given or are to be given Article 96 follows the new, simplified approach to delegation arrangements on substantially the same terms.
This exception adopted in the model form articles, allowing the directors to has become a common exception for listed companies to delegate as they decide appropriate.
62 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Notice when post not available Article 128 Article 128 is the article covering service of notice in the event of a postal strike.
It has been amended to allow the Company in such circumstances to serve notices only on those members who receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as before, the Company also puts an advertisment in two national newspapers and sends a confirmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available again within seven days of the meeting.
The seal Articles 137 and 138 Article 137 provides that instruments other than share certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either a director and the secretary or two directors.
Change of name Article 140 Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advanatage of this provision, the new Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
