Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eightieth Annual General of the middle market quotations for a Growth or Income Meeting of JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc will be share taken from and calculated by reference to the held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London EC2R London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 5BJ on Thursday, 16th July 2009 at 12.00 noon for the following business days immediately preceding the day on which purposes: the ordinary share is purchased or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and independent bid: the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st March 2009. iv any purchase of Growth or Income shares will be made 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net year ended 31st March 2009. asset value per Growth or Income share as determined 3 To elect Stephen Goldman a Director of the Company.
by the Directors at the date following not more than seven days before the date of purchase: 4 To re-elect Ferdinand Verdonck a Director of the Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 5 To re-elect Robin Faber a Director of the Company.
15th January 2011 unless the authority is renewed at the 6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or at any Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their other general meeting prior to such time: and remuneration for the ensuing year.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Growth or Income shares under the authority hereby conferred Special Business prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a To consider the following resolutions: purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares Special Resolution 7 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter Authority to make off-market purchases Special Resolution appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with 8 THAT the proposed Contingent Purchase contract between Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make Winterflood Securities Limited and JPMorgan European market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Investment Trust plc to enable the Company to make offAct of its issued Growth shares and Income shares both market purchases of its own securities pursuant to Section being classes of ordinary shares in the capital of the 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985 in the form Company produced at the meeting and initialled by the Chairman, be and is hereby approved and the Company be and is hereby PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT authorised to enter into and perform such contract, but so i the maximum number of Growth and Income shares that the approval and authority conferred by this resolution hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 18,851,986 shall expire on the day immediately preceding the date or 8,691,576 respectively, or, if different, that number of which is 18 months after the passing of this resolution or, if Growth and Income shares which is equal to 14.99% of earlier, the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
the issued share capital of the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: By order of the Board ii the minimum price which may be paid for any Growth Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of or Income share shall be 5p or 2.5p respectively: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary Secretary.
share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average 8th June 2009 90 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y Notes 7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the admitted only by prior arrangement.
reverse of the proxy form.
8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint act as its representatives and to vote in person at the Meeting see another person s who need not be a member of the Company to instructions given on the proxy form.
In order to facilitate voting exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to put in place at the Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate rights attaching to different shares held by him.
representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether representative, a designated corporate representative will be he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the automatically be terminated.
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies 3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a described in i above.
Representatives should bring to the Meeting Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
evidence of their appointment, including any authority under However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an which it is signed.
agreement between him and the member by whom he was 9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have Companys registered office during usual business hours on any such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
the exercise of voting rights.
10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
4 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
11 As at 5th June 2009 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital 5 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy consists of 125,763,752 Growth shares and 57,982,495 Income appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see shares.
Voting rights are calculated by reference to the share above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any voting numbers which, as at 31st March 2009, were 1.42 Growth attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after and 0.70 Income.
Therefore the total voting rights in the the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid Company are 219,172,274. separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last Electronic appointment CREST members sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the 6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
