Glossary of Terms Return to Shareholders Performance Attribution Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received performance relative to its benchmark.
were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of Performance Attribution Definitions: reinvestment are not taken into account.
Asset Allocation Effect Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in Return on Net Assets the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value countries, sectors or asset types.
to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Stock Selection Effect Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
Benchmark Return Gearing Cash Effect Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received balances on the Companys relative performance.
net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Management Fees Other Expenses The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should The payment of management fees and other expenses reduces not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does relative performance.
not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and Residual that of the stated index.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as Actual Gearing Factor calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out by the Investment Trust and total return from the attribution Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
systems includes dividend income received in on the stocks This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the held by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of methodologies market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Total Expense Ratio TER Share Buybacks Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the interest expressed as a percentage of the average of the number of shares in issue.
opening and closing net assets.
Discount Premium If the share price of an investment company is lower than the NAV per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
92 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 40 30 30 or 020 7742 9999 8.30 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
