7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 65 65 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report and the Group and Parent Company financial integrity of the corporate and financial information included statements in accordance with applicable law and on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing regulations.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial By order of the Board year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
13 May 2009 The Group and Parent Company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
