Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, and regulations.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility each financial year in accordance with United Kingdom of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not Generally Accepted Accounting Practice which give a true and involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility the year and of the total return for the year.
In preparing those for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they accounts, the Directors are required to: were initially presented on the website.
The accounts are select suitable accounting policies and then apply them prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ consistently: from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 prudent: and The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with explained in the accounts.
applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss The Directors confirm that they comply with these of the Company: and requirements.
b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper development and performance of the business and the accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable position of the Company together with a description of the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking For and on behalf of the Board reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Andrew Murison other irregularities.
Chairman 8th June 2009 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
