Appendix The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing memorandum of association which are treated as forming part the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been implemented of the Companys articles of association by virtue of Section 28 in stages but is fully in force from 1st October 2009.
In addition, of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amend certain liability.
An explicit statement of the members limited liability provisions of the 2006 Act relating to meetings of the Company is therefore included in the new Articles.
came into force in August 2009.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares Company is adopting new Articles of Association the Articles The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital which will reflect the changes in company law brought about and under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association no by the Shareholders Rights Regulations and by the provisions longer contains a statement of the Companys authorised share of the 2006 Act which came into effect on or before 1st October capital.
For existing companies, this statement is deemed to be 2009.
The Articles also include some other modernising and a provision of the Companys articles of association setting out clarifying amendments, including, where appropriate, adopting the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the the wording of the new model form articles for public Company.
The adoption of the new Articles by the Company companies contained in Schedule 3 to the Companies Model will have the effect of removing this provision relating to the Articles Regulations 2008 the model form articles, which maximum amount.
Directors will still need to obtain the usual are replacing the Table A articles under the 1985 Act on which shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares.
many of the Companys current articles are based.
Set out below is a summary of the principal changes.
References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
The Companys objects The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional 4.
Redeemable shares Article 5 significance of a companys memorandum.
The provisions Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not include governing the operations of the Company are currently set the terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The out in both its memorandum of association and its articles of Directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of association.
Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum no longer redemption of redeemable shares provided they are contains an objects clause and simply records the names of the authorised to do so by the articles.
The new Articles contain subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber such authorisation.
agreed to take in the Company.
Share certificates Article 12 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of memorandum are treated as part of the articles with effect consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form from 1st October 2009 but the Company can remove these articles.
Unless the articles provide otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
Transfer of shares Articles 30 and 31 Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any of the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of the Companys one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is articles of association as of 1st October 2009.
Resolution 10 no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts the 7.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide new Articles.
shares, and reduce share capital Article 40 2.
Limited liability Article 3 Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific authorisations Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association also in its articles of association to purchase its own shares, to no longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies do not require statement is automatically treated as having moved into the specific authorisations in their articles of association to articles on 1st October 2009.
As noted in paragraph 1 above, undertake these actions: but shareholder authority is still Resolution 10 confirms the removal, from the Companys required.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to articles of association, of the provisions of the Companys reflect these changes.
JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51 Appendix continued 8.
Participation in meetings at different places and by electronic when convening a meeting the Company may specify a time, means Article 51 not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and a person must be entered on the register of members in order conducting of electronic meetings.
The new Articles include to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This new amendments to provide greater scope for members to provision is in line with a requirement for listed companies participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
present in person at the principal place where the meeting is 13.
Validity of votes Article 67 being held.
The amendments allow for members to participate Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in by any other electronic means of participation.
accordance with instructions given to them by members.
Adjournments Article 53 new Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a provision to the not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate 2006 Act which requires that, when a general meeting is representative has voted in accordance with instructions adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice must given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate be given to reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles include representative will be valid even if he has not voted in amendments to the provisions dealing with notice of adjourned accordance with his instructions.
meetings to make them consistent with this new requirement.
Termination of proxy authority Article 73 10.
Removal of chairmans casting vote Article 73 provides that the termination of a proxys authority Pursuant to changes brought about by the Shareholders should be in writing as this is required by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, a traded company is no longer permitted Rights Regulations.
to allow the chairman to have a casting vote in the event of an 15.
Corporate representatives Article 75 equality of votes.
Accordingly, this provision has been removed The new Articles provide that the Company can require a in the new Articles.
corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the 11.
Voting rights Article 62 resolution appointing him before permitting him to exercise The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various his powers.
powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members 16.
Retirement of directors by rotation Articles 81 and 82 in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a The new Articles have been redrafted in order to make it proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one clearer and to ensure as far as possible a regular number of vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more retiring directors each year, with the number to retire being the than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and number nearest to one-third of the board.
Article 81 continues one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by more than to comply with Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which one member to vote for the resolution and by more than one recommends that all directors should be subject to re-election member to vote against the resolution.
Where a corporate at intervals of no more than three years.
New Article 82 member appoints representatives to attend meetings on its requires any non-executive director other than the chairman behalf, each representative duly appointed by a corporate who has held office for nine years or more to put himself up for member has one vote on a show of hands.
The new Articles re-election at each annual general meeting.
This is in line with contain provisions which clarify these rights and also clarify Combined Code provision A.
7.2. how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary powers.
Alternate directors Articles 88, 90 and 94 Article 88 now clarifies that an alternative director is entitled 12.
Voting record date Article 63 to be paid expenses but not directors fees.
Article 90 is a The new Articles include a new provision which was not new provision which effectively applies the provisions of previously in the Companys articles of association, dealing Article 86, regarding removal of directors, to alternate with the method for determining which persons are allowed directors.
Article 92 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how to the same restrictions as the director who appointed him.
many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, 52 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Borrowing powers Article 94 has been amended so that it contains provisions relating to A number of presentational and descriptive amendments have confidential information, attendance at board meetings and been made to the borrowing powers provision: availability of board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict i Article 94 1 a a reference has been added to amounts of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the credited as paid up on share capital to clarify that these position giving rise to the potential conflict falls within the should be included as well as amounts actually paid up.
situations covered by Article 100. ii Article 94 1 b this has been amended to refer to total of 21.
Procedures regarding board meetings & resolution in writing any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable Articles 102 & 105 reserves of the Group, to clarify that all reserves of the The provisions of Article 102 have been amended to make it Group will be relevant for the calculation and to reflect the clear that notice of a board meeting may be given personally, language used by those preparing the accounts.
The by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
The reference to including share premium account, capital requirements for giving notice to directors who are not in the redemption reserve and credit balance on the profit and United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify the loss account reserve has therefore been deleted.
procedure for written resolutions of directors, Article 105 has iii Article 94 1 the last paragraph has been amended to been amended so that, rather than referring to a resolution in allow the company also to adjust for variations in its capital writing by all directors, a resolution in writing will be valid and redemption reserve since the balance sheet date as the effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting if executed by all directors may reasonably consider to be appropriate.
the directors entitled to receive notice of the meeting and who would have been entitled to vote and whose vote would have iv Articles 94 1 a and 94 3 e additional wording has been been counted on a resolution at a meeting.
included to clarify how any preference shares that might be issued should be treated for the purposes of the borrowing 22.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP preference shares are The proposed amendment to Article 106, which deals with the now treated as a debt on a companys balance sheet, rather quorum requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a than equity.
The additional wording included in Articles director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution 94 1 a and 94 3 e reflects this accounting treatment.
The on which he is not entitled to vote or when his vote cannot be effect of this wording is to exclude the amount of any counted but he may count in the quorum for the other matters preference share capital from the calculation of the or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
Companys share capital and reserves and to include such 23.
Permitted interests and voting article 107 amount in the calculation of the Companys borrowings.
Article 107 has been amended to allow a director to vote on a 19.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 95 resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding Article 95 follows the new, simplified approach to delegation for expenditure incurred in defending proceedings provided adopted in the model form articles, allowing the directors to all the other directors have been given or are to be given delegate as they decide appropriate.
arrangements on substantially the same terms.
This exception has become a common exception for listed companies to 20.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of interest include.
Article 100 Article 100, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in 24.
The seal Articles 136 and 137 our current articles, allowing directors to be interested in Article 136 provides that instruments other than share transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by interested in a body corporate in which the company is one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas interested provided that he has disclosed his interest in previously the requirement was for signature by either a accordance with the articles and the provisions of the Acts, director and the secretary or two directors.
