Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, regulations.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected of JPMAM.
to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: affairs of the Company as at the end of the year and of the total a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable return for the year.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the are required to: assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company: and consistently: b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and development and performance of the business and the prudent: position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and For and on behalf of the Board prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is Jeremy Paulson-Ellis inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue Chairman in business.
20th November 2009 The Directors confirm that they comply with these requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
26 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
