Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighty first Annual General Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant Meeting of JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc will be securities Special Resolution held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on 17th 9 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out above, December 2009 at 2.00 p. m. for the following purposes: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 1 To receive the Directors Report & Accounts and the 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th September 2009. meaning of Section 560 1 of the Act pursuant to the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the authority conferred by Resolution 8 or by way of a sale of year ended 30th September 2009.
Treasury shares as if Section 560 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be 3 To approve a final dividend of 2.8p per share.
limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to 4 To re-elect Andrew Fleming as a Director of the Company.
an aggregate nominal amount of 2,075,700, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 5 To re-elect Keith Percy as a Director of the Company.
the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not 6 To re-elect Jeremy Paulson-Ellis as a Director of the less than the net asset value per share and shall expire at Company.
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless renewed at a general 7 To re-appoint Begbies Chettle Agar as auditors to the meeting prior to such time, save that the Company may Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their before such expiry make offers, agreements or remuneration.
arrangements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Special Business Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in To consider the following resolutions: pursuant of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 8 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of 10 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter any authorities previously granted to the Directors, appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,075,700, capital of the Company representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company authorised to be purchased shall be 24,891,806 or, if to be held in 2010 unless renewed at a general meeting less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of prior to such time, save that the Company may before such the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which passing of this resolution: would or might require relevant securities to be allotted ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company share shall be 25p: may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary hereby had not expired.
share shall be an amount equal to the highest of a 105% of the average of the middle market 48 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 quotations for an ordinary share taken from and Adoption of new Articles of Association calculated by reference to the London Stock 11 THAT Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days i the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum share is purchased or b the price of the last of Association which, by virtue of Section 28 of the independent trade: or c the highest current Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the independent bid: Companys Articles of Association: and iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of value per ordinary share as determined by the identification be adopted as the new Articles of Association Directors at the date following not more than seven of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, days before the date of purchase: the existing Articles of Association.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 16th June 2011 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or at any other general meeting prior to such time: and By order of the Board vi the Company may make a contract to purchase AK Norman, for and on behalf of ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a Secretary purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such 20th November 2009 contract notwithstanding such expiry.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to reverse of the proxy form.
terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid another person s who need not be a member of the Company to separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards rights attaching to different shares held by him.
that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the share.
Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a appointment will automatically be terminated.
longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49 Notice of Meeting continued adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which or adjourned Meeting.
notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting included in the business only must be accompanied by a see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the statement setting out the grounds for the request.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their agreement between him and the member by whom he was appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right statement on its website setting out any matter relating to under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors the exercise of voting rights.
report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to Company cannot require the members requesting the exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the members resolutions or members matters of business received website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in statement that the Company has been required to publish on its the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of website pursuant to this right.
appointment are available for inspection at the Companys 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company registered office during usual business hours on any weekday must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if has any contract of service with the Company.
it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other information.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting 15.
As at 19th November 2009 being the latest business day prior to the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital require the Company i to give, to members of the Company consists of 166,056,078 Ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 166,056,078. which those members intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be Electronic appointment CREST members dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the resolution which may properly be included in the business at the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or 50 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
