Glossary of Terms Return to Shareholders Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to If the share price of an investment company is lower than the mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an reinvestment are not taken into account.
investment companys shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Return on Net Assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value Performance Attribution to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the performance relative to its benchmark.
time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Allocation Effect date are deducted from the NAV when calculating the total Measures the impact of allocating assets differently from those return on net assets.
in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Stock Selection mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the effect of investing in securities sectors to a were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
or of investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Gearing Cash not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does balances on the Companys relative performance.
not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be Management Fees Other Expenses some divergence between the Companys performance and The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total that of the benchmark.
assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative Actual Gearing Factor performance.
Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Share Repurchases This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the market value of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
number of shares in issue.
Total Expense Ratio VAT Recovery Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding In 2007, HM Revenue & Customs announced acceptance that interest and VAT recoverable, expressed as a percentage of the VAT was not chargeable on investment trust management fees.
average of the opening and closing net assets.
The Company has since been able to recover VAT on management fees paid in the past.
54 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 55 Notes 56 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
