NOTES TO ThE cOmpaNy fiNaNcial STaTEmENTS 1 Basis of preparation The financial statements of Bunzl plc the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures because the published consolidated financial statements of the Group include disclosures that comply with the Standard.
Following changes to FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, it is no longer appropriate to recognise interim dividends payable as an outstanding creditor based on the constructive obligation created by the announcement of such dividends by the Board.
Accordingly the interim dividend declared in August and paid in January of the following year is no longer recognised as a liability at 31 December and is now accounted for when paid.
The comparative balance sheet at 31 December 2008 has been restated, resulting in an increase in net assets as at that date of 20.6m.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company financial statements.
2 Accounting policies a Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
b Investment in own shares The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly employee benefit trust shares is deducted from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised in retained earnings.
c Share based payments The Company operates equity settled share based compensation plans for which the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives on the grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting period with a corresponding credit to equity.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that are expected to vest.
Details of the relevant plans are outlined in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries these awards are accounted for by the Company as an additional investment in the relevant subsidiary equivalent to the equity settled share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit recognised directly in equity.
Any payment made by the subsidiaries in respect of these arrangements is treated as a return of this investment.
These costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
d Tangible fixed assets Until 31 December 1999 land and buildings were revalued periodically.
As permitted under FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, the valuations of land and buildings have not been and will not be updated.
All other tangible fixed assets are included at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation.
The profit or loss on sale of tangible fixed assets is calculated by reference to the carrying values of the assets.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
e Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets estimated remaining useful lives.
This is applied at the following annual rates: Buildings 2% or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years Plant and machinery 10 20% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% Freehold land Not depreciated The assets residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Leases Where the Company has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Future instalments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in creditors with the corresponding asset value treated as a tangible fixed asset.
All other leases are treated as operating leases and the rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO ThE cOmpaNy fiNaNcial STaTEmENTS 43
