notes 1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been approved by the directors and prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as referred to in the Directors report on page 2 and under the historical cost convention, with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction has been adopted during 2009 and as a result the comparative figures have been restated.
The impact on the balance sheet at 31 December 2008 was to increase the retirement benefit obligations by 5.5m 18.1m at 31 December 2007, increase deferred tax assets by 1.5m 5.1m at 31 December 2007 and reduce retained earnings by 4.0m 13.0m at 31 December 2007.
As a result of a change to the trust deed for the UK defined benefit pension plan in the second half of 2009, IFRIC 14 no longer impacts the financial position of the Group and consequently there is no additional retirement benefit obligation or related deferred tax asset to recognise at 31 December 2009.
Following amendments to International Accounting Standard IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, it is no longer appropriate to recognise interim dividends payable as an outstanding creditor based on the constructive obligation created by the announcement of such dividends by the Board.
Accordingly the interim dividend declared in August and paid in January of the following year is no longer recognised as a liability at 31 December and is now accounted for when paid.
The comparative balance sheet at 31 December 2008 has been restated, resulting in an increase in net assets as at that date of 20.6m.
This change has no impact on the reported cash flow or the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
2 Accounting policies a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration paid plus directly attributable costs over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as an intangible asset.
ii Associates Associates are entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses of associates.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
c Financial instruments Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument.
Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
i Fair value hedge Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged with changes recognised in the income statement.
14 notes Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009
