notes 1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been approved by the directors and prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as referred to in the Directors report on page 2 and under the historical cost convention, with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction has been adopted during 2009 and as a result the comparative figures have been restated.
The impact on the balance sheet at 31 December 2008 was to increase the retirement benefit obligations by 5.5m 18.1m at 31 December 2007, increase deferred tax assets by 1.5m 5.1m at 31 December 2007 and reduce retained earnings by 4.0m 13.0m at 31 December 2007.
As a result of a change to the trust deed for the UK defined benefit pension plan in the second half of 2009, IFRIC 14 no longer impacts the financial position of the Group and consequently there is no additional retirement benefit obligation or related deferred tax asset to recognise at 31 December 2009.
Following amendments to International Accounting Standard IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, it is no longer appropriate to recognise interim dividends payable as an outstanding creditor based on the constructive obligation created by the announcement of such dividends by the Board.
Accordingly the interim dividend declared in August and paid in January of the following year is no longer recognised as a liability at 31 December and is now accounted for when paid.
The comparative balance sheet at 31 December 2008 has been restated, resulting in an increase in net assets as at that date of 20.6m.
This change has no impact on the reported cash flow or the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
2 Accounting policies a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration paid plus directly attributable costs over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as an intangible asset.
ii Associates Associates are entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses of associates.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
c Financial instruments Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument.
Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
i Fair value hedge Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged with changes recognised in the income statement.
14 notes Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 2 Accounting policies continued ii Cash flow hedge Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change in fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
iii Hedge of a net investment in foreign operations Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences are recognised in the income statement.
d Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
e Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets estimated remaining useful lives.
This is applied at the following annual rates: Buildings 2% or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years Plant and machinery 10 20% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% Freehold land Not depreciated The assets residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Intangible assets i Goodwill Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
As permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 January 2004 and has elected not to restate previous business combinations.
For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value.
These principally relate to customer relationships and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives which range from 10 to 19 years.
g Leases Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land.
h Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed annually to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amounts are estimated.
The recoverable amounts of assets carried at amortised cost are calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
Receivables with a short term duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amounts of other assets are the greater of their fair value less the costs to sell and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement.
i Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, bank overdrafts and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date the deposit is made.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 notes 15 notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
l Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
Payables with a short term duration are not discounted.
m Income tax Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items reflected in equity when it is recognised in equity.
Current tax reflects tax payable on taxable income for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the forseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which any asset can be utilised.
n Revenue The Group is engaged in the delivery of goods to customers.
Revenue from a sale is recognised in the income statement upon delivery of the relevant goods, which is the point in time at which the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred.
Revenue is valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution pension schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit pension schemes Pension liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and represent the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities.
Scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted using the rate applicable to AA rated corporate bonds that have a similar maturity to the scheme liabilities.
Current service cost, past service cost credit and gains and losses on any settlements and curtailments are credited or charged to the income statement.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent benefits are already vested or is otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits are vested.
The unwinding of the discount on scheme liabilities is recognised within finance cost and the expected return on scheme assets generated during the year is included within finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
p Investment in own shares The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly employee benefit trust shares is deducted from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised in retained earnings.
16 notes Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 2 Accounting policies continued q Share based payments The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share based compensation plans.
As permitted by IFRS 1, on transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to equity instruments granted on or before 7 November 2002.
For equity settled plans the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives on the grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting period with a corresponding credit to equity.
For cash settled plans the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options, determined at the appropriate balance sheet date, and is remeasured at each balance sheet date thereafter with a corresponding credit recognised as a liability.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to not achieving the non-market conditions for vesting.
Details of these plans are outlined in Note 16 and the Directors remuneration report.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups obligations under the contract.
s Net debt Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and fair values of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents.
t Dividends The interim dividend is included in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in the period in which it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The directors review the judgements and estimates on an ongoing basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of the Groups performance and financial position.
a Pension benefits The cost of defined benefit pension schemes and the present value of the obligations relating thereto are determined using actuarial valuations appropriate for each country where defined benefit pension schemes are provided.
The actuarial valuations involve making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, future pension increases and mortality rates.
All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
In determining the appropriate discount rates, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds with an AA rating in the relevant country.
Future salary increases and future pension increases are based on expected future inflation rates for each country.
Mortality rates are based on the relevant mortality tables for each country.
Further details about the assumptions used are set out in Note 20. b Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
c Revenue recognition Revenue represents sales to third parties for goods sold and is valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant.
Returns provisions are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume and early settlement discounts are based on agreements with customers.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 notes 17 notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued d Acquisitions Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method based on the fair value of the consideration paid.
Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions including discount rates, asset lives and recoverability.
Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the value of freehold properties is typically determined by qualified valuers on an open market basis.
Management believes that estimates made in previous years have been materially accurate as any changes made in the allocation period following acquisition to finalise provisional fair value adjustments made in the year of acquisition have not been material.
e Tax The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in determining the provisions for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Tax benefits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against which temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised.
New accounting standards and interpretations i Revisions to IFRS adopted in 2009 IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements has been adopted during the year.
The adoption of this standard has resulted in some presentational changes to the primary financial statements which have had no impact on the reported net result or financial position of the Group.
I FRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has been amended requiring additional disclosures relating to fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been adopted during the year.
The Group is managed through four business areas based on geographic regions which represent the reporting segments under IFRS 8.
Each of these business areas supplies a range of products to customers operating primarily in the foodservice, grocery, cleaning & safety, non-food retail and healthcare markets.
The performance of the four business areas is assessed by reference to operating profit before intangible amortisation and this measure also represents the segment results for the purposes of reporting in accordance with IFRS 8.
Accordingly, on the adoption of IFRS 8, no changes were required to be made to any segments revenue or results previously presented in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
ii Revisions to IFRS not applicable in 2009 IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for the year ending 31 December 2010.
The Group engages various external advisers to assist with the execution of acquisitions, including services relating to pre-acquisition due diligence.
To date such direct costs have been included as a cost of acquisition.
On adoption of IFRS 3 revised, such costs will in future be charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
Contingent consideration will be recognised and measured at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration will be recognised in the income statement rather than by adjusting goodwill.
These are considered to be the major changes to the accounting treatment currently adopted by the Group in relation to acquisitions.
The impact on the consolidated financial statements will depend on the number, size and complexity of acquisitions completed in the relevant period.
The implications of adopting IFRIC 14 and amendments to IAS 10 are disclosed in the Basis of preparation on page 14.
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but not yet applicable will have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
18 notes Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009
