7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page 63 Shareholder information 63 Investment trust status Registrars The Corporation carries on business as an Our registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, investment trust company as defined in section operate a dedicated telephone service for Law 842 1 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act Debenture shareholders 0870 707 1129 1988.
The directors will endeavour to conduct its Shareholders can use this number to access holding affairs so as to enable it to maintain HM Revenue & balances, dividend payment details, share price Customs approval of the Corporations status in this data, or to request that a form be sent to their respect.
So far as the directors are aware, the registered address.
close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Share dealing Corporation.
Computershare Investor Services plc offers shareholders a share dealing service via the internet Capital gains tax or by telephone, details of which are as follows: For shareholders who have purchased their shares through a share savings scheme on a monthly basis Internet www.
com dealing uk and who wish to apply HM Revenue & Customs Telephone 0870 703 0084 optional basis of valuing holdings as if they had all been purchased in July, guidance notes have been Commission for the internet service is 0.5% with a prepared by the AIC and are available from the minimum charge of 15 and 1% for the telephone company secretary on request.
service with a minimum charge of 25.
The service is available only to those shareholders Company share information who hold their shares on the register and is not Information about the Corporation can be found on available to those who hold their shares via a its web site http: www.
price of its ordinary shares is published in the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, Shareholders using the internet service will need The Guardian, The Independent, and the Daily Mail.
their Shareholder Reference Number SRN and post code to complete their trade.
The SRN can be Individual savings account ISA found printed on your proxy card.
For investors seeking a tax efficient method of The share dealing service is controlled and investing in the shares of the Corporation.
The Plan operated by Computershare Investor Services plc Manager is National Westminster Bank Plc and can and the Corporation is not responsible or liable for be contacted at: anything arising from a shareholders decision to National Westminster Bank Plc, use the service.
The Corporation is not acting as FREEPOST, an introducer for the share dealing service and Princess House, receives no financial benefit, either from making 27 Bush Lane, shareholders aware of the service or from any London EC4R 0AA share deals conducted by shareholders who use the service.
Telephone 0845 601 5600 References to services provided by members of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group have been approved by National Westminster Bank Plc, which is authorised and regulated by the FSA.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
