7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page 67 Notes to the notice of annual general meeting 67 1.
A member who holds ordinary shares on the register of members and is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his or her place or in the case of a corporation, to appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Corporation.
Proxy rights do not apply to nominated persons although the nominated person may have a right under an agreement with the registered member to appoint a proxy.
In addition to instructing a proxy to vote for or against a resolution, the form enables you to instruct a vote withheld if you prefer.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes.
It may be used, for example, to convey a message of dissatisfaction on a particular issue, where the strength of feeling is not so great as to oppose the resolution, but supporting it is not appropriate either.
If you hold your shares on the register of members as opposed to holding them in a nominee, you will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the meeting.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be lodged electronically by accessing www.
com, or by post at the office of the Corporations registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
If you intend to lodge your proxy vote electronically you will need your Shareholder Reference Number, PIN and Control Number, all of which are printed on your proxy card.
If you are a CREST member, you can register your vote electronically by using the service provided by Euroclear.
Proxies must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting.
This is also the voting record date by which a person must be entered on the register in order to have a right to attend and vote at the meeting.
Lodgement of a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting in person.
The register of directors interests will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Corporation during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting.
No director has a service contract with the Corporation of more than one years duration.
Subject to the dividend on the ordinary shares now recommended being approved at the annual general meeting, dividends will be paid on 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the register on the record date on 5 March 2010.
Resolution 2 is to receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The remuneration report is set out at pages 28 to 33 of the annual report of the Corporation.
Resolution 4: Mr D. C. P. McDougall offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election because he leads the board with skill and considerable success.
He is highly regarded in the investment trust sector and makes a full contribution to the board, with particular expertise in overseeing investment strategy.
His biography is included on page 5 of the annual report.
Resolution 5: Mr A. C. Cates offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election because Mr Cates continues to perform well as senior non-executive director as evidenced in his appraisal by the Chairman.
His extensive knowledge of corporate trusts is valued and he is an informed and expert chairman of the principal holding company for the independent fiduciary services business.
Resolution 6: Mrs C. J. Banszky offers herself for re-election.
The board supports her re-election.
She continues to be a very effective managing director, considerably improving profitability of the independent fiduciary services business and enhancing shareholder value.
Her biography is included on page 5 of the annual report.
A. Kay offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election.
He provides a valuable insight into economic events and trends.
Resolution 8 is to re-elect Mr C. Smith.
He brings a wealth of corporate finance experience to the board along with a thorough knowledge of the investment trust sector and regulatory matters and is an effective audit committee chairman.
Resolution 9 is to re-appoint BDO LLP as the Corporations auditors.
BDO LLP were appointed on 31 October 2008.
Special resolution 10 renews the authority given to directors at the last annual general meeting to purchase ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
Such purchases at appropriate times and prices could be a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value and would be applied within guidelines set from time to time by the board.
It should be noted that no such purchases would be undertaken if shares were trading at a premium to net asset value.
The authority being sought is the same as the Corporation has traditionally sought each year, but is proposed now in accordance with the drafting provided for in the Companies Act 2006.
Special resolution 11 renews the authority given to directors at the last annual general meeting to allot unissued capital not exceeding 5,903,369 shares, being 5% of the issued share capital.
This authority is sought principally to allow the directors to satisfy demand for shares from participants in the Individual Savings Account, and would be exercised only at times when it would be advantageous to the Corporations shareholders to do so.
Shares would not be issued under this authority at a price lower than net asset value at the time of the issue.
If approved, the authority will continue to operate until the next annual general meeting.
Special resolution 12 is proposed because the directors consider that in order to allot shares in the circumstances described in resolution 11 it is in the best interests of the Corporation and its shareholders to allot a maximum of 5,903,369 shares other than on a pre-emptive basis.
The board would not, however, issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis within any three year period.
Resolutions 13 and 14 adoption of new articles of association and authority to convene a general meeting explanatory notes 15.
Special resolution 13 is proposed in order to change the Corporations articles of association so that they are fully compliant with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Regulations.
Shareholders will recall that the bulk of amendments necessary to make the articles of association consistent with the Act were made at the AGM in 2008.
Since then, however, the final provisions of the Act have been implemented in October 2009 and the Regulations have been introduced.
The Corporation proposes a single resolution to adopt the new articles in their entirety rather than proposing many separate resolutions to deal with each change individually.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page 68 68 Notes to the notice of annual general meeting continued 16.
The amendments that are proposed to be made to the existing articles are as follows: a The Corporations objects the provisions regulating the operations of the Corporation are currently set out in the Corporations memorandum and articles of association.
The Corporations memorandum contains, among other things, the object clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Corporation is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
It provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Act, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, the Act states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, the Corporation is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the Act, are treated as forming part of the Corporations articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 13 confirms the removal of these provisions for the Corporation.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the memorandum of association regarding limited liability, pensions and benefits of officers and employees, the new articles contain express statements regarding these matters.
b Authorised share capital and unissued shares the Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the new articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can allot at any time because allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, except in respect of employee share schemes.
Articles relating to increase in authorised share capital, consolidation, sub-division and cancellation of share capital and reduction of share capital have also been removed since these are enabling provisions, no longer required under the Act.
Shareholder authority will still need to be obtained annually to do any of these things.
c Vacation of office by directors the new articles add a new circumstance in which a director must vacate office, taken from the recently introduced model articles for public companies.
A director will now need to vacate office if a registered medical practitioner treating that director has given a written opinion to the company stating that the person has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain so for more than three months.
d Voting by proxies on a show of hands the Regulations have amended the Act so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands.
However, if the proxy is appointed by more than one member, the proxy may have one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution, and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The new articles have been amended to reflect this.
e Voting by corporate representatives the Regulations have amended the Act to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to attend and vote at meetings, and the new articles reflect this.
f Chairmans casting vote the new articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes at a general meeting as this is no longer permitted under the Act.
g Notice of general meetings the Regulations amend the Act to require a company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings notwithstanding what it says in the companys articles unless the company offers shareholders an electronic voting facility and a special resolution has been passed by shareholders authorising a shorter notice period of 14 days.
If resolution 13 is passed, the Corporation will seek such authority under resolution 14, which will be proposed annually.
h Adjournments for lack of quorum under the Act, as amended by the Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The new articles have been changed to reflect this.
i Voting record date under the Act, as amended by the Regulations, the Corporation must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting i. e. set a voting record date.
This need not take account of days that are not working days.
The new articles have been amended to reflect this requirement.
j Consequentials certain cross references have been amended to reflect the removal of the existing articles as described above.
Resolution 14 implements the new articles requirement that authority must be sought to convene a general meeting but not the annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice.
While the directors have no current intention to call a general meeting in the year ahead, circumstances might arise when such a meeting might become necessary and the directors deem it in the best interest of shareholders that it be held as quickly as possible.
Such circumstances might include, for example, a decision to make a significant amendment to the investment policy shareholder approval for such a change being a regulatory stipulation.
Documents available for inspection Copies of the following documents may be inspected at the registered office of the Corporation Fifth Floor, 100 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7EX during normal business hours on any business day until the conclusion of the annual general meeting: The current memorandum and articles of association of the Corporation: The proposed new articles: and The proposed new articles amended in track change to show the proposed insertions, deletions and amendments.
The documents are also available on line at www.
com under Investor Information within the Investment Trust section of the site.
Meeting notice requirements the Corporation is required under the Act to make a number of additional disclosures in the notes to the notice of meeting.
com investment-trust investor-information contains a copy of this notice, which includes the current total voting rights, as set out below.
Should the required number of members requisition the Corporation to publish any statement about the audit or related matters that the relevant members propose to raise at the AGM in accordance with section 527 of the Act, this would be published at the Corporations expense on the website and forwarded to the auditor.
Similarly, any shareholder statements, resolutions and matters of business connected with the meeting received after publication of this notice will be published on the website subject to compliance by the submitting party with the Act.
At the AGM, the Corporation will cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a shareholder in attendance.
Total voting rights and share information The Corporation confirms that it has an issued share capital at 22 February 2010 of 118,067,388 ordinary shares with voting rights and no restrictions and no special rights with regard to control of the Corporation.
There are no other classes of share capital and none of the Corporations issued shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total number of voting rights in The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. is currently 118,067,388.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com PRINCES ST BASINGHALL ST GRESHAM ST LOVE LANE CHEAPSIDE POULTRY RUSSIA ROW 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page 69 AGM Venue Brewers Hall Aldermanbury Square London EC2V 7HR BREWERS HALL P Tel: 020 7600 1801 P MOORGATE LONDON WALL ALDERMANBURY SQUARE BASINGHALL AV GUILDHALL ST PAULS BANK Cert no.
SA-COC-1654 CQ This document is printed on paper made from fibres sourced from managed and sustainable forests PEFC and FSC and, bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
EMAS Accredited and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certified.
Designed and produced by LONDON WALL MILK ST ALDERMANBURY WOOD ST COLEMAN ST MOORGATE ST MARTIN LE GRANDE ALDERSGATE ST KING ST WOOD ST ALDERMANBURY The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. Annual Report 2009 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page bc1 www.
