80 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Legal & Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the group comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs their preparation is applicable law and International Financial as issued by the IASB.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report for the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation is consistent with the group financial statements.
of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Matters on which we are required to report by exception group financial statements in accordance with applicable law We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and are not made: or only for the companys members as a body in accordance with we have not received all the information and explanations we Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other require for our audit.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the directors statement on going concern included in the save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
corporate governance statement: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Scope of the audit of the financial statements companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Combined Code specified for our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Other matter from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We have reported separately on the parent company financial error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and 31 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: Richard Keers Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as for and on behalf of  LLP at 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors year then ended: London have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 22 March 2010 adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Notes: a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Group Plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 81 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Notes m m Revenue Gross written premiums 1F, G, H 3 iv 5,275 5,895 Outward reinsurance premiums 1J 574 569 Net change in provision for unearned premiums 1H 11 1 Net premiums earned 4,712 5,327 Fees from fund management and investment contracts 1G 786 740 Investment return 1Z 5 38,201 37,749 Operational income 1AA 91 38 Total revenue 3 ii 43,790 31,644 Expenses Claims and change in insurance liabilities 7,614 3,287 Reinsurance recoveries 520 587 Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 1F, H 6 7,094 2,700 Change in provisions for investment contract liabilities 1G 33,186 33,313 Acquisition costs 1F, G, H 780 776 Finance costs 1Q 179 379 Other expenses 1AA 882 773 Transfers to from unallocated divisible surplus 1F 430 806 Total expenses 42,551 29,491 Profit loss before income tax 9 1,239 2,153 Income tax expense credit attributable to policyholder returns 11 165 662 Profit loss from continuing operations before income tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,074 1,491 Total income tax expense credit 1R 11 395 1,023 Income tax expense credit attributable to policyholder returns 11 165 662 Income tax expense credit attributable to equity holders 11 230 361 Profit loss for the year 844 1,130 Attributable to: Minority interests 29 19 63 Equity holders of the Company 863 1,067 Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company during the year 1U 12 185 367 Dividend distributions to equity holders of the Company proposed after the year end 1U 12 160 120 p p Earnings per share Based on profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 1AB 13 14.82 17.88 Diluted earnings per share Based on profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 1AB 13 14.73 17.88 82 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREhENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Notes m m Profit loss for the year 844 1,130 Other comprehensive income after tax Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 63 139 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes 36 154 18 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes transferred 32 62 8 to unallocated divisible surplus Net change in financial investments designated as available-for-sale 66 56 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 755 1,037 Total comprehensive income expense attributable to: Minority interests 29 19 63 Equity holders of the Company 774 974 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 83 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Notes m m Assets Investment in associates 1D 44 45 14 Plant and equipment 1M 17 61 75 Investment property 1L 18 3,839 3,969 Financial investments 1L 19 276,016 234,514 Reinsurers' share of contract liabilities 1J 21 2,093 1,997 Purchased interest in long term businesses and other intangible assets 1K 22 146 227 Deferred acquisition costs 1F, G, H 23 1,957 2,112 Deferred tax asset 1R 24 796 988 Income tax recoverable 1R 25 1 8 Other assets 26 1,440 2,135 Cash and cash equivalents 1O 27 10,650 10,688 Total assets 3 iii 297,044 256,727 Equity Share capital 1U 28 147 147 Share premium 28 936 936 Employee scheme shares 1U 28 38 46 Capital redemption and other reserves 41 42 Retained earnings 3,110 2,593 Shareholders equity 4,196 3,588 Minority interests 29 2 144 Total equity 3 iii 4,198 3,732 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 1Q 35 1,870 1,657 Participating insurance contracts 1F 30 9,404 9,384 Participating investment contracts 1G 31 7,139 6,992 Unallocated divisible surplus 1F 32 1,284 913 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 1F 33 367 171 Participating contract liabilities 17,460 17,118 Non-participating insurance contracts 1F, H 30 28,583 25,841 Non-participating investment contracts 1G 31 234,502 196,698 Non-participating contract liabilities 263,085 222,539 Senior borrowings 1Q 35 1,407 2,314 Provisions 1T, W 36 757 555 Deferred tax liabilities 1R 24 303 259 Income tax liabilities 1R 25 140 5 Payables and other financial liabilities 37 5,003 6,799 Other liabilities 38 892 997 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 39 1,929 752 Total liabilities 3 iii 292,846 252,995 Total equity and liabilities 297,044 256,727 The notes on pages 87 to 183 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 81 to 183 and the supplementary financial statements on pages 184 to 204 were approved by the directors on 22 March 2010 and were signed on their behalf by: John Stewart Tim Breedon Nigel Wilson Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer 84 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF ChANGES IN EqUITY For the year ended Capital 31 December 2009 Employee redemption Share scheme and other Retained Minority Share capital premium shares reserves earnings Total interests Total equity m m m m m m m m As at 1 January 147 936 46 42 2,593 3,588 144 3,732 Profit loss for the year 863 863 19 844 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 63 63 63 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 154 154 154 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 62 62 62 Net change in financial investments designated as available-for-sale 66 66 66 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 3 771 774 19 755 Options exercised under share option schemes: Executive share option schemes Savings related share option scheme Shares purchased 2 2 2 Shares vested 10 18 8 8 Employee share schemes: Value of employee services 21 21 21 Transfer to retained earnings 8 8 8 Dividends 185 185 185 Movement in third party interests 123 123 Currency translation differences 77 77 As at 31 December 147 936 38 41 3,110 4,196 2 4,198 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 85 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF ChANGES IN EqUITY CONTINUED For the year ended Capital 31 December 2008 Employee redemption Share scheme and other Retained Minority Share capital premium shares reserves earnings Total interests Total equity m m m m m m m m As at 1 January 157 927 42 59 4,345 5,446 178 5,624 Loss for the year 1,067 1,067 63 1,130 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 139 139 139 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 18 18 18 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 8 8 8 Net change in financial investments designated as available-for-sale 56 56 56 Total comprehensive income expense 83 1,057 974 63 1,037 for the year 1 Share buyback 11 11 523 523 523 Options exercised under share option schemes: Executive share option schemes 1 1 1 Savings related share option scheme 1 8 9 9 Shares purchased 10 10 10 Shares vested 6 17 11 11 Employee share schemes: Value of employee services 14 14 14 Transfer to retained earnings 3 3 3 Dividends 367 367 367 Movement in third party interests 29 29 Currency translation differences 192 192 As at 31 December 147 936 46 42 2,593 3,588 144 3,732 1.
During 2008, shares were repurchased and cancelled under a share buyback programme at a cost of 523m including expenses.
86 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASh FLOW STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit loss for the year 844 1,130 Adjustments for non-cash movements in net profit loss for the year Realised and unrealised gains losses on financial investments and investment properties 29,180 48,376 Investment income 8,813 10,086 Interest expense 179 379 Income tax expense credit 395 1,023 Other adjustments 104 77 Net increase decrease in operational assets Investments designated as held for trading or fair value through profit or loss 5,822 2,161 Investments designated as available-for-sale 61 93 Other assets 477 1,702 Net increase decrease in operational liabilities Insurance contracts 3,143 1,479 Transfer to from unallocated divisible surplus 368 798 Investment contracts 29,337 43,485 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 196 105 Other liabilities 1,121 541 Cash used in operations 8,104 8,157 Interest paid 160 377 Interest received 5,074 5,214 Income tax received paid 52 208 Dividends received 3,896 4,614 Net cash flows from operating activities 758 1,086 Cash flows from investing activities Net acquisition of plant and equipment 7 14 Acquisitions net of cash acquired 16 1,004 Capital injection into overseas joint ventures 44 36 Net cash flows from investing activities 43 990 Cash flows from financing activities Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company during the year 185 367 Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 10 Purchase of employee scheme shares 2 9 Purchase of shares under share buyback programme 28 523 Proceeds from borrowings 2,124 3,568 Repayment of borrowings 2,629 2,960 Net cash flows from financing activities 692 281 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 23 1,795 Exchange losses gains on cash and cash equivalents 61 156 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 10,688 8,737 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 27 10,650 10,688 The Groups consolidated cash flow statement includes all cash and cash equivalent flows, including those relating to the UK long term fund policyholders.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 87 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The determination of fair values of investment property A Basis of preparation Notes 1L and 18 The Group financial statements have been prepared in Investment property in the UK is valued bi-annually by external accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards chartered surveyors at open market values in accordance with IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of The Royal Institution of IASB as adopted by the European Union, and with those parts Chartered Surveyors or using internal valuations and estimates of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting during the intervening period.
Outside the UK, valuations are under IFRS.
The Groups financial statements also comply with produced in conjunction with external qualified professional IFRS as issued by the IASB.
valuers in the countries concerned.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and The Group presents its balance sheet broadly in order of balance sheet date, an internal valuation is performed and liquidity.
This is considered to be more relevant than a before adjustments made to reflect any material changes in fair value.
or after 12 months presentation, given the long term nature of the Groups core business.
However, for each asset and liability The determination of fair values of unquoted and illiquid line item which combines amounts expected to be recovered or financial investments Notes 1L, 19 and 20 settled before and after 12 months from the balance sheet date, For unquoted financial investments, the Group obtains pricing disclosure of the split is made by way of a note.
information from a range of pricing services and brokers.
Where there are indications that there is no active market, the Group Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed gross in seeks further evidence of the fair value from alternative pricing the balance sheet unless a legally enforceable right of offset sources and market information.
Priority is given to publicly exists and there is an intention to settle recognised amounts on available prices from independent sources when available, but a net basis.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income overall, the source of pricing and or the valuation technique is statement unless required or permitted by any accounting chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement standard or International Financial Reporting Interpretations which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would Committee IFRIC interpretation, as detailed in the applicable take place between market participants on the measurement date.
accounting policies of the Group.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially The Group has adopted the revised presentation under IAS 1 the same, discounted cash flow analysis and, if applicable, revised, Presentation of financial statements and accordingly enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions included a separate consolidated statement of comprehensive relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
The revision prohibits the presentation of items in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or of income and expenses in the consolidated statement of negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
changes in equity and requires changes in equity attributable to shareholders to be presented separately to those that are Estimation of deferred acquisition costs Notes 1F, 1G and 23 not attributable to shareholders.
The changes are purely Significant costs are incurred in connection with acquiring new presentational and the comparatives have been restated to insurance business, such as initial commission and the indirect reflect the new presentation.
costs of obtaining and processing new business.
These costs, which vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of In 2009, the Group adopted amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based new business, are capitalised and amortised against margins payments and IAS 23, Borrowing costs with no impact to the in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: recoverability of the asset is measured and the asset is deemed disclosures have also been adopted and the additional impaired if the projected future margins are less than the disclosures required by the amendment have been provided carrying value of the asset.
To the extent that the future margins in Notes 19 and 48. differ from those anticipated, an adjustment to the carrying value of the deferred acquisition cost asset will be necessary.
B Use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements includes the use For participating contracts, acquisition costs are charged to of estimates and assumptions which affect items reported in the income statement when incurred.
the consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Tax balances Notes 1R, 24 and 25 financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for managements best knowledge of current circumstances and the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
future events and actions, actual results may differ from those The judgements made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving estimates, possibly significantly.
This is particularly relevant at tax balances in the financial statements are discussed in to the following: Notes 24 and 25.
88 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group has interests in associates and joint ventures which B Use of estimates continued form part of an investment portfolio held through private equity Insurance and investment contract liabilities partnerships, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities.
Notes 1F, 1G, 30 and 31 and associated balances In accordance with the choices permitted by IAS 28 and IAS Long term business liabilities can never be definitive as to their 31, Interests in joint ventures, these interests have been timing or the amount of claims and are therefore subject to regular classified as fair value through profit or loss and measured at reassessment.
The significant estimates and assumptions used fair value within financial investments, with changes in fair value in calculating insurance liabilities are disclosed in Note 34. recognised in the income statement.
C Summary of significant accounting policies Associates which do not form part of an investment portfolio The Group has selected accounting policies which fairly state are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost.
The carrying its financial position and financial performance for a reporting amount of the associate is increased or decreased to reflect period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied the Groups share of the profit or loss after the date of the to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing these E Product classification financial statements are set out below.
The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts participating and non-participating D Consolidation principles or investment contracts participating and non-participating.
Subsidiary undertakings Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, insurance risk to the insurer at the inception of the contract.
liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Contracts which do not transfer significant insurance risk to the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to insurer are classified as investment contracts.
Hybrid contract 31 December each year.
All intra-group balances, transactions, types, containing both insurance and investment features, have income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are been treated as investment contracts when accounting for those entities including special purpose entities, mutual funds premiums, claims and other revenue.
and unit trusts over which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in A number of insurance and investment contracts contain order to gain economic benefits Note 43.
Profits or losses of discretionary participating features DPF which entitle the subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the period are policyholders to receive guaranteed benefits as well as included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal additional benefits: or from the date of gaining control.
The interests of parties, other the amount or timing of which is contractually at the than the Group, in investment vehicles, such as unit trusts, are discretion of the Group: and classified as liabilities and appear as Net asset value attributable which are contractually based on: to unit holders in the consolidated balance sheet.
the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract: Acquisitions realised and or unrealised investment returns on a The Group applies the purchase method in its accounting for specified pool of assets held by the issuer: or the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is the profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity measured as the fair value of the assets transferred, equity which issues the contract.
instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Contracts with DPF are referred to as participating contracts.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the With-profits contracts in the UK and most Guarantie Long Groups share of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Terme contracts in France are classified as participating.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference F Long term insurance contracts is recognised directly in the income statement.
Premium income Premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising Associates and joint ventures from them are created.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but which it does not control.
Consistent with IAS 28, Investments in associates, it is presumed that the Group has significant influence where it has between 20% and 50% of the voting rights in the investee.
Joint ventures are entities where the Group and other parties undertake an activity which is subject to joint control.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 89 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Claims is deducted from the sum of the liabilities for participating Death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
contracts and the unallocated divisible surplus.
Surrenders for non-linked policies are accounted for when payment is made.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received and admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are due.
Claims payable include the direct costs of settlement.
Overseas The long term insurance contract liabilities for business Acquisition costs transacted by overseas subsidiaries are determined on the basis Acquisition costs comprise direct costs, such as initial of recognised actuarial methods which reflect local supervisory commission, and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing principles or, in the case of the US, on the basis of US GAAP.
Acquisition costs relating to non-participating insurance contracts written outside the with-profits part of the Unallocated divisible surplus UK Long Term Funds LTFs which are incurred during a financial The nature of benefits for participating contracts is such that year are deferred by use of an asset which is amortised over the the allocation of surpluses between ordinary equity holders period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable, and participating policyholders is uncertain.
The amount of and in accordance with the expected incidence of future related surplus which has not been allocated at the balance sheet date margins.
For participating contracts, acquisition costs are is classified within liabilities as the unallocated divisible surplus.
charged to the income statement when incurred.
Adjustments made to comply with FRS 27 are charged to the unallocated divisible surplus.
Insurance contract liabilities Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities G Investment contracts are measured using local Generally Accepted Accounting Premium income Principles GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance contracts.
For investment contracts, amounts collected as premiums are not included in the income statement but are reported as UK contributions to investment contract liabilities in the balance In the UK, insurance contract liabilities are determined following sheet.
an annual investigation of the LTFs in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Revenue from investment contracts Fees charged for investment management services are For non-participating insurance contracts, the liabilities are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, calculated on the basis of current information using the gross which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future premium valuation method.
This brings into account the full provision of services, are deferred and amortised over the premiums receivable under contracts written, having prudent anticipated period in which the services will be provided.
regard to expected lapses and surrenders, estimated renewal and maintenance costs and contractually guaranteed benefits.
Fees charged for investment management services for For unit linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based institutional and retail fund management are also recognised on the fund value together with an allowance for any excess of on this basis.
future expenses over charges where appropriate.
Claims For participating contracts, the liabilities to policyholders are Claims are not included in the income statement but are determined on a realistic basis in accordance with Financial deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in Reporting Standard FRS 27, Life assurance.
This includes an investment contract liabilities consists of claims incurred in the assessment of the cost of any future options and guarantees period less the corresponding elimination of the policyholder granted to policyholders valued on a market consistent basis.
liability originally recognised in the balance sheet and the The calculation also takes account of bonus decisions which are investment return credited to policyholders.
consistent with Legal & General Assurance Society Limiteds Societys Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
The shareholders share of the future cost of bonuses is excluded from the assessment of the realistic liability.
In determining the realistic value of liabilities for participating contracts, the value of future profits on non-participating business written in the with-profits part of the fund is accounted for as part of the calculation.
The present value of future profits VIF for this business is separately determined and its value 90 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Premium income G Investment contracts continued Premiums are accounted for in the period in which the risk Acquisition costs commences.
Estimates are included for premiums not notified For participating investment contracts, acquisition costs by the year end and provision is made for the anticipated lapse comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect of renewals not yet confirmed.
Those proportions of premiums costs of obtaining and processing new business.
These costs are written in a year which relate to periods of risk extending beyond charged to the income statement when incurred.
the end of the year are carried forward as unearned premiums.
For non-participating investment contracts, only directly related Acquisition costs acquisition costs which vary with, and are related to, securing A proportion of commission and other acquisition costs relating new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred and to unearned premiums is carried forward as deferred acquisition amortised over the period during which the costs are expected costs or, in respect of reinsurance outwards, as deferred income.
to be recoverable from future revenue.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Technical liabilities Liabilities, together with related reinsurance recoveries, are Trail commission established on the basis of current information.
Such liabilities The Group operates distribution agreements with intermediaries can never be definitive as to their timing or the amount of claims where further commission costs are payable in each period and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a which a relevant policy remains in-force.
participating investment contracts, a liability for the present value of this future commission cost is recognised in the balance Claims and related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for sheet on inception of the contract.
The present value of future in respect of all incidents up to the year end.
Provision is made commission costs is deferred as an asset and amortised over on the basis of available information for the estimated ultimate the period during which the related revenue will be recognised.
cost, including claims settlement expenses, claims reported At each subsequent reporting date, the liability is remeasured to but not yet settled and claims incurred but not yet reported.
fair value because this financial liability is part of a portfolio of An unexpired risk provision is made for any overall excess of unit linked assets and liabilities whose performance is evaluated expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned on a fair value basis.
Any increase in the liability is recognised as premiums and after taking account of investment return.
Any change in lapse assumptions or revisions to the underlying assumptions for future cash flows will I Liability adequacy tests be reflected in the fair value movement for a period.
If the future The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance commission liability decreases, a corresponding adjustment is liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of liabilities less made to the amortisation of the asset.
related deferred acquisition costs is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability Investment contract liabilities adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows Under current IFRS requirements, participating investment and compares this amount with the carrying value of the contract liabilities are measured using local GAAP, as permitted liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income by IFRS 4 see above for insurance contract liabilities.
In the UK, statement, initially reducing deferred acquisition costs and participating investment contract liabilities are determined in then by establishing a provision for losses.
accordance with FRS 27, including a value for guarantees, in the same way as insurance contracts.
J Reinsurance The Groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums Non-participating investment contracts are unit linked contracts.
and risk in the normal course of business in order to limit Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by reference the potential for losses and to provide financing.
Outwards to the value of the underlying net asset values of the Groups reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting unitised investment funds at the balance sheet date.
period as the related premiums for the direct or inwards reinsurance business being reinsured.
Reinsurance assets Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received include balances due from reinsurers for paid and unpaid losses and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums and loss adjustment expenses, ceded unearned premiums and are due.
ceded future life policy benefits.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim h General insurance business liability associated with the reinsured policy.
Reinsurance is Results for the General insurance business are determined after recorded as an asset in the consolidated balance sheet unless taking account of unearned premiums, outstanding claims and a right of offset exists, in which case the associated liabilities unexpired risks using the annual basis of accounting.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 91 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED K Intangible assets US are measured on the basis of current information and are Goodwill designated as FVTPL to avoid an accounting mismatch in Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1998 has the income statement.
been charged directly to reserves.
On disposal, goodwill held in reserves is transferred directly to retained earnings.
From 1998, The fair values of quoted financial investments are based on the Groups policy is to recognise goodwill on the balance sheet current bid prices.
If the market for a financial investment is as an intangible asset, measured at cost less any accumulated not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation impairment losses.
techniques such as recent arms length transactions, consensus market pricing, reference to similar listed investments, Purchased interest in long term businesses and other discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
intangible assets Portfolios of in-force insurance or investment contracts Private equity investments are valued in accordance with acquired either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation undertaking are capitalised at fair value.
The value of business Guidelines, which represent current best practice, developed by acquired represents the present value of anticipated future the Association Franais des Investisseurs en Capital, the British profits in acquired contracts.
These amounts are amortised over Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
The techniques used for determining Other intangible assets acquired via business combinations are fair value include earnings multiples, the price of a recent recognised at fair value and are subsequently amortised over investment or a net asset basis.
their useful life in line with the expected emergence of profit from the business.
Financial investments classified as HFT and FVTPL are measured at fair value with gains and losses reflected in the L Investments income statement.
Investment property Investment property comprises land and buildings which are Financial investments classified as AFS are measured at fair held for long term rental yields and capital growth.
It is carried value with unrealised gains and losses recognised in a separate at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income reserve within equity.
Realised gains and losses, impairment statement within investment return.
losses, dividends, interest and foreign exchange movements on non-equity instruments are reflected in the income statement.
Financial investments The Group classifies its financial investments on initial Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus recognition as held for trading HFT, designated at fair value acquisition costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost through profit or loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS or loans using the effective interest method.
Initial recognition of financial investments is on the trade date.
M Plant and equipment The initial cost of an item of plant or equipment is capitalised The Groups policy is to measure investments at FVTPL except where it is probable that future economic benefits associated for certain overseas assets where the related liability is valued with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can on a passive basis not using current information, in which case be measured reliably.
The cost is then depreciated on a straight investments are classified as AFS.
All derivatives other than line basis over the items estimated useful working life.
those designated as hedges are classified as HFT.
N Impairment policy Certain financial investments held by the Group are designated The Group reviews the carrying value of its financial assets as FVTPL as their performance is evaluated on a total return other than those held at FVTPL at each balance sheet date.
If the basis, consistent with asset performance reporting to the carrying value of a financial asset is impaired, the carrying value Group Investment and Market Risk Committee and the Groups is reduced through a charge to the income statement.
Assets designated as FVTPL include debt must be objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or securities and equity instruments which would otherwise have more events which have occurred after the initial recognition been classified as AFS under IAS 39, Financial instruments: of the asset.
Impairment is only recognised if the loss event has recognition and measurement.
Assets backing participating an impact on the estimated future cash flows of assets held at and non-participating policyholder liabilities outside the US amortised cost or fair value of assets classified as AFS.
For participating contracts the assets are managed on a fair value basis to maximise the total return to policyholders over the contract life.
The Groups nonparticipating investment contract liabilities outside of the 92 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge N Impairment policy continued accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative Non-financial assets which have an indefinite useful life are not instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are subjected to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Assets which are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The in other contracts are not closely related to those of the host recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less contract and the whole contract is not carried at fair value, the costs to sell and value in use.
derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with fair value movements reflected within investment O Cash and cash equivalents return, unless the embedded derivative itself meets the definition Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at of an insurance contract.
call with banks, treasury bills and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
q Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of P Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting transaction costs.
Borrowings classified as liabilities are The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses the net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the derivatives such as foreign exchange forward contracts and income statement over the borrowing period using the effective interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
uses hedge accounting, provided the prescribed criteria in IAS 39 are met, to recognise the offsetting effects of changes in the fair Borrowings comprise unsecured subordinated debt such as tier value or cash flow of the derivative instrument and the hedged 1 and tier 2 bond issues, short and long term unsecured senior item.
The Groups principal uses of hedge accounting are to: debt such as long dated bond issues, commercial paper issuance i recognise in shareholders equity the changes in the fair and bank borrowings under both committed and uncommitted value of derivatives designated as hedges of a net investment debt facilities including bank overdrafts.
Borrowings raised from in a foreign operation.
Any cumulative gains and or losses individual banks, syndicated banks and capital markets secured are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the on specific assets cash flows such as Triple X securitisations foreign operation: and property partnerships assets are included as non recourse ii defer in equity the changes in the fair value of derivatives borrowings, as are mortgage loans raised by SIPP clients designated as the hedge of a future cash flow attributable secured on their properties invested in their portfolio of linked to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast SIPP investments which we manage on their behalf.
transaction, or a firm commitment until the period in which the future transaction affects profit or loss or is no longer R Income taxes expected to occur: and Income tax iii hedge the fair value movements in loans due to interest Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is rate and exchange rate fluctuations.
Any gain or loss recognised in the income statement except where it relates to from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is an item which is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item for the period and any adjustment to the tax payable in respect and recognised in the income statement.
The relationship between the hedging instrument and the The total income tax expense for the period includes income hedged item, together with the risk management objective and tax paid by Society in respect of UK life policyholder returns, strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, are documented which is not related to profits earned by equity holders for the at the inception of the transaction.
The effectiveness of the period.
The income tax charge in the income statement has hedge is documented and monitored on an ongoing basis.
therefore been apportioned between the element attributable Hedge accounting is only applied for highly effective hedges to policyholder returns and the element attributable to equity between 80% and 125% effectiveness with any ineffective holders profits equity holder tax.
portion of the gain or loss recognised in the income statement, within other expenses, in the current period.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 93 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred income tax Where the unallocated divisible surplus or equity holders Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance funds are affected as a result of actuarial gains and losses on sheet liability method, on temporary differences between the the defined benefit pension scheme, the charge or credit is not carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting recognised in the income statement but through the statement purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax of comprehensive income.
is measured using tax rates expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax The Group pays contractual contributions in respect of defined liability is settled, based on tax rates and law which have been contribution schemes.
The Group has no further payment enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an is probable that future taxable profits will be available against asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Obligations under defined benefit pension schemes are included within provisions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based payments Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where The fair value at the date of grant of the equity instrument is the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary recognised as an expense, spread over the vesting period of the difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will instrument.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by not reverse in the foreseeable future or if it will, then it will not reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact generate any incremental tax liability for the Group.
of any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity S Leases instruments which are expected to become exercisable.
It Where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if ownership is retained by the lessor, leases are classified as any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment is operating leases.
Payments made as lessees under operating made to equity.
On vesting or exercise, the difference between leases net of any incentives from the lessor are charged to the expense charged to the income statement and the actual the income statement on a straight line basis over the period cost to the Group is transferred to retained earnings.
shares are issued, the proceeds received are credited to share capital and share premium.
T Employee benefits Pension obligations U Share capital and employee scheme shares The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined Equity instruments contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual assets of all UK defined benefit schemes are held in separate interest in the net assets of an entity.
It follows that a financial trustee administered funds which are subject to regular actuarial instrument is treated as equity if: valuation every three years, updated by formal reviews at there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other reporting dates.
financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on unfavourable terms: and The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined the instrument is either a non-derivative which contains no benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of own benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value equity instruments, or is a derivative which will be settled of plan assets.
Plan assets exclude any insurance contracts only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or issued by the Group.
The defined benefit obligation is actuarially other financial assets, for a fixed number of its own equity calculated each year using the projected unit credit method.
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The discount rate is based on market yields of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity which approximate to those of the related pension liability.
94 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED X Payables and other financial liabilities U Share capital and employee scheme shares continued Payables and other financial liabilities comprise derivative Share issue costs liabilities, collateral received from banks and other liabilities.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new The derivative liabilities comprise a variety of exchange traded shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including proceeds.
An incremental share issue cost is one which would futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such not have arisen if shares had not been issued.
as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and credit default swaps measured at fair value.
Legal & General shares Where any Group entity purchases the Companys equity share Y Foreign currency translation capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable Foreign currency transactions incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional attributable to shareholders.
Where such shares are subsequently currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration transactions.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net operations is the currency of the primary economic environment of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the in which these entities operate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses related income tax effects.
Shares held on behalf of employee are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised share schemes are disclosed as such on the balance sheet.
in equity as qualifying cash flow or net investment hedges.
Where shares are cancelled under the share buyback Overseas subsidiaries programme, the consideration paid, including any directly The assets and liabilities of all of the Groups foreign operations attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity are translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, attributable to shareholders.
As required by Companies Act at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
The income 2006, the equivalent of the nominal value of shares cancelled is and expenses for each income statement are translated at transferred to a capital redemption reserve.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign Dividend recognition entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to a recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are separate component of shareholders equity.
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Final dividends are accrued when approved by the Companys Z Investment return shareholders at a general meeting and interim dividends are The reporting of investment return comprises investment income, recognised when paid.
unrealised gains and losses from financial investments held at FVTPL and realised gains and losses from all financial assets.
V Fiduciary activities Assets associated with fiduciary activities and the income arising Investment income includes dividends, interest and rent.
from those assets, together with associated commitments to Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis.
Interest and rent return such assets to customers, are not included in these financial are included on an accruals basis.
Interest income for financial statements.
Where the Group acts in a fiduciary capacity, for assets which are not classified as FVTPL is recognised using the instance as a trustee or agent, it has no contractual rights over effective interest method.
AA Operational income and expenses W Provisions Operational income comprises fee income from estate agency Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal operations, agency fee income relating to distribution services or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable and revenue from consolidated private equity investments.
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will Operational income is accounted for when due.
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects Other expenses comprise primarily the expenses incurred in a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance estate agency operations, institutional fund management and contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset retail investment business, together with unallocated corporate but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Other costs are accounted for as they arise.
Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 95 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED AB Earnings per share dividend payable should be recognised when the dividend is Earnings per share appropriately authorised and is no longer at the discretion of Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income the entity: an entity should measure the dividend payable at the attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average fair value of the net assets to be distributed: an entity should number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding recognise the difference between the dividend paid and the employee scheme shares and shares acquired under the share carrying amount of the net assets distributed in profit or loss: buyback programme prior to cancellation.
For this purpose, net and an entity will provide additional disclosures if the net assets income is defined as the profit after tax derived from continuing being held for distribution to owners meet the definition of a operations, or as the profit after tax derived from both continuing discontinued operation.
The IFRIC is not expected to have a and discontinued operations.
material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers issued in Diluted earnings per share January 2009 effective for annual periods commencing on For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of or after 1 July 2009.
This IFRIC clarifies the requirements ordinary shares in issue, excluding employee scheme shares, is of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary a customer an item of property, plant, and equipment that shares, such as share options granted to employees.
Potential the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.
a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
This IFRIC is not relevant to the Groups operations AC Segmental reporting as the Group does not have such agreements with customers.
Under the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating segments, There are various amendments resulting from the IASBs operating and reportable segments are presented in a manner annual improvements project issued in April 2009 effective consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief for annual periods commencing on or after both 1 July 2009 operating decision maker, which has been identified as the and 1 January 2010, these are unlikely to have a material Board of Legal & General Group Plc.
impact on the Group accounts.
Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International AD Standards, interpretations and amendments to Financial Reporting Standards issued in July 2009 effective published standards that are not yet effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010.
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing These amendments exempt entities using the full cost standards have been published which are mandatory for the Groups method from retrospective application of IFRSs for oil and accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later gas assets and exempt entities with existing leasing contracts periods but which the Group has not adopted early, as follows: from reassessing the classification of those contracts in Revised IFRS 3, Business combinations issued in January accordance with IFRIC 4.
The amendments are not relevant to 2008 effective for annual periods commencing on or after the Groups financial statements.
The standard continues to apply the acquisition Amendments to IFRS 2, Group cash-settled share-based method to business combinations, with some significant payment transactions issued in June 2009 effective for changes e. g. all payments to purchase a business are to annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010. be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some The amendments provide a clear basis to determine the contingent payments subsequently re-measured at fair value classification of share-based payment awards in both through income.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the consolidated and separate financial statements.
The parents share of net assets or may include goodwill related to definitions section has also been amended to remove the the minority interest.
All transaction costs will be expensed.
inconsistencies between Appendix A, defined terms and the The requirements of this standard will be considered for any main body of the standard.
The Group does not consider that future business acquisitions.
this amendment will result in any significant impact on the Revised IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial financial statements.
statements issued in January 2008 effective for annual IFRS 9, Financial instruments on classification and periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
This standard measurement, issued in November 2009 effective for requires the effect of all transactions with non-controlling annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in This is the first part of a new standard on classification and control.
It also specifies the accounting when control is lost measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39. any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
All equity instruments are measured at fair Group does not consider that this amendment will result in value.
A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity any significant impact on the financial statements.
is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners issued flows represent principal and interest, otherwise it must be in November 2008 effective for annual periods commencing measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group does on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation clarifies that a not intend to early adopt this standard.
96 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION Supplementary IFRS operating profit is one of the Groups key performance indicators.
We provide this measure because we believe it gives shareholders a better understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
In order to further enhance this understanding, we have amended the definition of IFRS operating profit to remove the impact of investment volatility from the non profit Risk and Savings and the Group capital and financing results.
The key changes to our definition of IFRS operating profit are: i.
Operating profit for the Risk and Savings businesses is now based on the investment returns that the Group expects to make on the financial investments that back the non profit business over the reporting period, rather than the actual returns on these investments.
The difference between the expected return and the actual return on investments, and the corresponding impact on liabilities, is shown below the operating profit line.
This adjustment includes the removal of accounting volatility arising from the mismatch of asset and liability valuations for deferred tax balances within unit linked funds under IFRS.
Group capital and financing operating profit now excludes the profit or loss arising from actuarial gains and losses on annuities held by the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
As this is driven by bond market yields the effect has been classified as variation from longer term investment return.
The profit or loss impact arising from the elimination of own debt holdings is reflected below operating profit.
In previous reporting periods this amount has been nil.
The amended definition more closely aligns the results of non profit Risk and Savings and Group capital and financing with our other UK businesses and is closer to the European Embedded Value EEV definition of operating profit.
It changes the allocation of profit between operating and non-operating elements, but it does not affect underlying performance, the economics of our business, the profit before tax attributable to shareholder or the profit for the year.
The table below sets out the effect of the above changes to IFRS supplementary operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2008, and the six months ended 30 June 2009: Effect of Effect of restating the restating the definition of definition of As IFRS As IFRS reported operating Restated reported operating Restated 2008 profit 2008 30.06.09 profit 30.06.09 m m m m m m From continuing operations Risk 603 825 222 128 351 223 Savings 66 59 7 5 26 21 Investment management 165 165 70 70 International 59 59 65 65 Group capital and financing 124 15 139 29 4 25 Operating loss profit 189 781 592 31 373 404 Variation from longer term investment return 1,239 781 2,020 154 373 527 Property losses attributable to minority interests 63 63 20 20 Loss from continuing operations before tax 1,491 1,491 143 143 attributable to equity holders of the Company Tax credit attributable to equity holders of the Company 361 361 52 52 Loss for the period 1,130 1,130 91 91 Loss attributable to minority interests 63 63 20 20 Loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,067 1,067 71 71 Operating profit for the Risk segment represents the net capital invested released from the non profit Risk businesses individual and group protection, and individual and bulk purchase annuities and the profit of our General insurance business.
Operating profit reflects the investment returns that the business expects to make on the financial investments that back the business and on shareholder funds retained within our General insurance business.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 97 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Operating profit for the Savings segment represents the net capital invested released from the non profit Savings businesses non profit investment bonds and non profit pensions including SIPPs, the with-profits transfer and the operating profit of our core retail investments business.
Operating profit reflects the investment returns that the business expects to make on the financial investments that back this business.
Operating profit for the Investment management and International segments reflects the profits from these organisations and includes a longer term expected investment return on the shareholders funds within the Investment management and Netherlands operations.
Investment return on Group capital incorporates a longer term expected investment return using longer term investment return assumptions applied to the average balance of Group invested assets including interest bearing intra-group balances calculated on a quarterly basis.
Profits or losses arising from actuarial movements on annuities held by the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are excluded from operating profit.
Profit and losses arising on the elimination of own debt holdings are also excluded from operating profit.
The table below sets out the effect of the above changes to IFRS operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2009: i Reconciliation between operating profit and profit from ordinary activities after income tax 2009 2008 Restated Notes m m From continuing operations Risk ii 735 222 Savings iii 55 7 Investment management iv 167 165 International v 127 59 Group capital and financing vi 57 139 1 Investment projects 32 Operating profit 1,109 592 Variation from longer term investment return 16 2,020 Property losses attributable to minority interests 19 63 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,074 1,491 Tax expense credit attributable to equity holders of the Company 11 230 361 Profit loss for the year 844 1,130 1.
Investment projects relate to strategic investments including Solvency II.
ii Risk a Risk operating profit 2009 2008 Restated Notes m m Non profit Risk b 717 223 General insurance f 17 2 1 Other 1 1 Total Risk operating profit 735 222 1.
Other comprises estate agencies and housing related business conducted through our regulated mortgage network.
It also includes Nationwide Life Risk business and business unit costs of 3m 2008: 3m allocated to the Risk business.
98 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION CONTINUED ii Risk continued b Analysis of net capital released from non profit Risk business 2009 2008 Restated Notes m m Non profit business operating profit comprises: Operational cash generation 438 376 New business strain 50 173 Net cash generation 488 203 Experience variances c 113 2 Changes to valuation assumptions d 169 42 Changes to FSA reporting and capital rules 15 Movements in non-cash items e 229 16 Other 41 20 515 159 Tax gross-up 202 64 Non profit Risk operating profit 717 223 Non profit business operational cash generation represents the capital and profit expected to be generated in the period from the in-force non profit business if the embedded value and valuation assumptions are borne out in practice.
The experience variances are calculated with reference to embedded value assumptions, including the apportionment of investment return and tax in the EEV model.
The 2008 net capital released analysis has been restated in accordance with the new definition of operating profit see the beginning of this note.
Both new business strain and operational cash generation exclude required solvency margin from the liability calculation as is required by the ABI SORP.
In 2006 the FSA introduced a more realistic reserving framework for certain non profit business Policy statement PS 06 14.
In July 2009, a Part VII transfer of the Nationwide Life Risk business to Society took place and the Group chose to adopt PS06 14 for this business.
The impact of this, offset by the amortisation of associated intangible assets, is reflected within changes to FSA reporting and capital rules above.
An analysis of the experience variances, valuation assumption changes and non-cash items, all net of tax, is provided below: c Experience variances 2009 2008 Restated m m Persistency 9 5 Mortality morbidity 9 26 Expenses 1 18 BPA data loading 48 22 1 Project and development costs 21 53 2 Tax 79 15 Other 24 9 113 2 1.
Project and development costs relate to continued investment in internal and other customer facing systems 15m and redundancy costs 6m.
The current tax charge was lower than expected due to the utilisation of brought forward tax losses.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 99 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED d Changes to valuation assumptions 2009 2008 Restated m m Persistency 5 4 Mortality morbidity 101 25 Expenses 54 55 Other 19 34 169 42 e Movements in non-cash items 2009 2008 Restated m m 1 Deferred tax 221 19 Other 8 3 229 16 1.
The movement in deferred tax reflects the profitability of the non profit Risk business in 2009 and the consequent utilisation of brought forward losses from 2008. f General insurance operating profit, underwriting result and combined operating ratios UnderCombined UnderCombined Operating writing operating Operating writing operating profit result ratio loss profit result ratio 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m % m m % From continuing operations Household 12 1 98 12 26 110 Other business 5 4 79 10 8 86 17 5 96 2 18 108 The combined operating ratio is: Net incurred claims Expenses Net commission x 100 [ ] Net earned premiums Net written premiums iii Savings a Savings operating profit 2009 2008 Restated Notes m m 1 Non profit Savings b 4 79 2 With-profits business 64 107 60 28 Core retail investments 9 3 Other 14 21 Total Savings operating profit 55 7 1.
Non profit Savings business includes non profit investment bonds and non profit pensions including SIPPs.
With-profits business operating profit is the shareholders share of total with-profits bonuses.
Other includes Suffolk Life, International Ireland, Nationwide Life Savings business and business unit costs of 3m 2008: 3m, allocated to the Savings business.
100 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION CONTINUED iii Savings continued b Analysis of net capital released from non profit Savings business 2009 2008 Restated Notes m m Non profit business operating profit comprises: Operational cash generation 58 77 New business strain 77 161 Net cash generation 19 84 Experience variances c 1 35 Changes to valuation assumptions d 9 32 Changes to FSA reporting and capital rules 50 Movements in non-cash items e 64 14 Other 22 45 3 56 Tax gross-up 1 23 Non profit Savings operating profit 4 79 Non profit business operational cash generation represents the capital and profit expected to be generated in the period from the in-force non profit business if the embedded value and valuation assumptions are borne out in practice.
In 2006, the FSA introduced a more realistic reserving framework for certain non profit business PS06 14.
In 2009, the Group has chosen to implement PS06 14 rule changes relating to the calculation of the regulatory sterling reserves on non profit unit linked contracts.
The impact of this is reflected within changes to FSA reporting and capital rules above.
However, sterling reserves on investment contracts are eliminated from IFRS reporting and the corresponding reduction is reported through non-cash items.
An analysis of the experience variances, valuation assumption changes and non-cash items, all net of tax, is provided below: c Experience variances 2009 2008 Restated m m Persistency 1 12 Mortality morbidity 1 Expenses 7 1 Project and development costs 23 42 2 Tax 22 3 Other 1 1 35 1.
Project and development costs relate to continued investment in internal and other customer facing systems 16m and redundancy costs 7m.
The current tax change was lower than expected due to the utilisation of brought forward tax losses.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd d Changes to valuation assumptions 2009 2008 m m Persistency 1 8 Mortality morbidity 2 1 Expenses 1 2 Other 11 27 9 32 e Movements in non-cash items 2009 2008 Restated m m Deferred tax 33 16 Deferred acquisition costs 5 20 Deferred income liabilities 35 30 1 Other 61 80 64 14 1.
In 2009, Other includes the elimination of 55m of sterling reserves following the adoption of PS06 14. iv Investment management 2009 2008 m m Managed pension funds 128 117 Private equity 1 1 Property 4 4 1 Other income 41 52 Legal & General Investment Management 172 172 2 Institutional unit trusts 5 7 Total Investment management operating profit 167 165 1.
Other income includes 28m of profits arising from the provision of investment management services charged to the Groups Risk and Savings businesses 2008: 35m.
Investment management operating profit excludes core retail investments of 9m 2008: nil, which has been disclosed as part of Savings.
v International 2009 2008 m m USA 86 39 Netherlands 42 6 France 4 14 1 Other 5 Total International operating profit 127 59 1.
Other includes our joint venture operations in Egypt, the Gulf and India.
Exchange rates are provided in Note 10. vi Group capital and financing 2009 2008 Restated m m 1 Investment return 191 298 2 Interest expense 127 145 Investment expenses 3 5 Unallocated corporate expenses 4 9 Total Group capital and financing operating profit 57 139 1.
T he longer term expected investment return of 191m 2008: 298m reflects an average return of 6% 2008: 7% on the average balance of invested assets of 3.0bn 2008: 4.5bn, held within Group capital and financing calculated on a quarterly basis.
The invested assets held within Group capital and financing amounted to 2.8bn at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: 3.9bn.
Interest expense excludes interest on non recourse financing see Note 35.
102 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION CONTINUED vii Earnings per share Profit Tax Earnings loss credit Profit Number per 1 before tax expense after tax of shares share 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 Notes m m m m p Operating profit from continuing operations i 1,109 304 805 5,824 13.82 Variation from longer term investment return i 16 74 58 1.00 2 Loss attributable to equity holders EPS 1,093 230 863 5,824 14.82 Profit Tax Profit Earnings loss credit loss Number per 1 before tax expense after tax of shares share 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Restated Restated Restated Restated Notes m m m m p Operating profit from continuing operations i 592 163 429 5,968 7.19 Variation from longer term investment return i 2,020 524 1,496 25.07 2 Profit attributable to equity holders EPS 1,428 361 1,067 5,968 17.88 1.
Weighted average number of shares.
3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Group has five reporting segments comprising Risk, Savings, Investment management, International, and Group capital and financing.
The Risk segment comprises individual and group protection, individual and bulk purchase annuities, and general insurance, together with estate agencies and the housing related business conducted through our regulated mortgage network.
The Savings segment comprises non profit investment bonds, non profit pensions including SIPPs, ISAs, retail unit trusts, and all with-profits products.
The Investment management segment comprises institutional fund management and institutional unit trust business.
The International segment comprises businesses in the United States, France, the Netherlands and emerging markets.
Shareholders equity supporting the non profit Risk and Savings businesses is held within Legal & General Assurance Society Limited and Legal & General Pensions Limited and is managed on a groupwide basis within Group capital and financing.
This also includes capital within the Groups treasury function, and unit trust funds and property partnerships, which are managed on behalf of clients but are required to be consolidated under IFRS, which do not constitute a separately reportable segment.
Transactions between reportable segments are on normal commercial terms, and are included within the reported segments.
The Group assesses performance and allocates resources on the basis of IFRS operating profit before tax set out in Note 2.
Segmental IFRS operating profit before tax is reconciled to the consolidated profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders and consolidated profit from ordinary activities after income tax.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 103 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED i Operating profit Group Investment capital and 1 Risk Savings management International financing Total For the year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Operating profit 735 55 167 127 25 1,109 2,3 Variation from longer term investment return 218 127 4 26 53 16 Property losses attributable to minority interests 19 19 Profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 517 182 163 153 59 1,074 Tax expense credit attributable to equity holders of the Company 142 49 45 49 55 230 Profit for the year 375 133 118 104 114 844 1.
For segmental purposes, the Investment projects have been included in Group capital and financing.
At half-year 2009, non profit Risk business reflected a small reduction in yield from action taken to sell some of the Groups holdings of tier 1 and upper tier 2 bank securities.
These actions have contributed 75m to the negative investment variance.
The cash and overlay strategy executed on the portfolio resulted in adverse effects on the assumed yields at the half-year which are reflected within IFRS profit.
As expected, these half-year yield impacts have been reversed by action taken in further diversifying the credit portfolio in the second half of the year.
The impact of strengthening assumptions for reinvestment of cashflows, variability in currency hedging costs and inflation is also reflected here, in addition to the negative impact from default provisioning of 50m.
The 2008 Risk investment return variance includes 650 m relating to the increase in the non profit annuity credit default reserve.
Savings investment variances reflect management action taken in the second half of the year to optimise the tax position of unit linked business.
Group Investment capital and Risk Savings management International financing Total Restated Restated Restated Restated For the year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Operating profit 222 7 165 59 139 592 Variation from longer term investment return 854 59 7 4 1,236 2,020 Property losses attributable to minority interests 63 63 Loss profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 632 66 172 63 1,160 1,491 Tax credit expense attributable to equity holders of the Company 172 7 52 21 269 361 Loss profit for the year 460 59 120 42 891 1,130 ii Revenue Group Investment capital and Risk Savings management International financing Total For the year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Internal revenue 117 136 103 356 External revenue 5,809 7,200 28,992 1,527 262 43,790 Total revenue 5,926 7,336 29,095 1,527 94 43,790 Group Investment capital and Risk Savings management International financing Total For the year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Internal revenue 132 133 119 384 External revenue 2,648 6,008 28,229 741 796 31,644 Total revenue 2,780 5,875 28,110 741 1,180 31,644 Total revenue includes investment gains of 38,201m 2008: losses of 37,749m.
104 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED iii Consolidated balance sheet Group Investment capital and Risk Savings management International financing Total As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 14 31 45 Investment property 1,965 497 7 1,370 3,839 Financial investments 22,416 40,857 206,753 6,400 410 276,016 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 1,558 687 272 424 2,093 Deferred acquisition costs 45 999 16 984 87 1,957 Other assets 1,380 477 956 1,453 1,822 2,444 Cash and cash equivalents 568 2,619 3,314 516 3,633 10,650 Total assets 25,967 47,618 211,536 9,663 2,260 297,044 Shareholders equity 120 79 339 1,372 2,286 4,196 Minority interests 2 2 Total equity 120 79 339 1,372 2,288 4,198 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 1,870 1,870 Participating contract liabilities 15,084 2,376 17,460 Non-participating contract liabilities 22,102 30,078 207,963 3,523 581 263,085 1 Senior borrowings 9 199 2 535 662 1,407 Other liabilities 3,736 2,178 3,232 1,857 1,979 9,024 Total liabilities 25,847 47,539 211,197 8,291 28 292,846 Total equity and liabilities 25,967 47,618 211,536 9,663 2,260 297,044 1.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 105 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED iv Gross written premiums on insurance contracts 2009 2008 m m From continuing operations Risk Non-participating Risk business 3,057 4,038 General insurance Household 247 267 Other business 26 29 Total Risk 3,330 4,334 Savings Non-participating Savings business 45 49 Participating business 772 551 Total Savings 817 600 International USA 487 397 Netherlands 270 278 France 371 286 Total International 1,128 961 Total gross written premiums 5,275 5,895 106 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 NEW BUSINESS GROSS OF REINSURANCE New business premiums reflect income arising from the sale of new contracts during the reporting period and any changes to existing contracts, which were not anticipated at the outset of the contract.
This is presented below for all long term business written by the Group including both insurance and investment contracts.
New annual premiums arise where the terms and conditions of a policy anticipate more than one premium being paid over its lifetime: new single premiums comprise all premiums which are not categorised as new annual premiums.
Risk annuity new business includes those premiums written in the with-profits fund of 17m 2008: 27m.
For segmental profit reporting these contracts are incorporated with all other with-profits business in the Savings segment on the basis of materiality.
Core retail investments excludes institutional investments which are disclosed with segregated property, property partnerships, private equity partnerships and institutional clients funds which are disclosed as part of institutional fund management.
Other funds comprise new business from Legal & General Investment Management 2009: 2,464m: 2008: 3,249m and from Legal & General Retail Investments 2009: 1,799m: 2008: 2,218m.
Excludes 7.9bn 2008: 7.4bn which is held on a temporary basis, generally as part of portfolio reconstructions.
The UK pooled managed funds of 25.6bn 2008: 26.7bn reported above are classified as fund management contracts.
The increase in the fair value of the investment contract liabilities is shown in the income statement.
There are three classes of new business for conventional individual protection where there is a material difference between gross and net of reinsurance annualised new business premiums: term assurance, which is 53.7% reinsured 2008: 52.9% : whole of life assurance, which is 12.4% reinsured 2008: 2.5% : and income protection, which is 39.1% reinsured 2008: 28.4%.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 107 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 INVESTMENT RETURN 2009 2008 m m 1 Financial investment return 37,905 36,603 2 Property investment return 296 1,146 Investment return 38,201 37,749 1.
Financial investment return includes fair value gains and losses, excluding fair value movements attributable to AFS investments, dividends and interest.
Net gains losses excluding interest and dividend income of 27,303m 2008: 46,072 m arose on financial investments designated as FVTPL and 1,851m 2008: 866 m arose on derivative contracts classified as HFT.
Interest income of 93m 2008: 77m arose on financial investments designated as AFS.
There were no impairments on assets classified as AFS during the year 2008: 17m.
Investment income of 144m 2008: 545m arose on loans and receivables.
Property investment return includes 283m 2008: 294m of rental income.
6 NET CLAIMS AND ChANGE IN INSURANCE LIABILITIES Long term General Long term General insurance insurance Total insurance insurance Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 From continuing operations m m m m m m Claims paid gross 4,359 178 4,537 4,429 235 4,664 reinsurance recoveries 419 2 421 406 7 413 3,940 176 4,116 4,023 228 4,251 Change in insurance liabilities gross 3,096 19 3,077 1,333 44 1,377 reinsurance recoveries 100 1 99 182 8 174 Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 6,936 158 7,094 2,508 192 2,700 The roll-forward of the insurance contract liabilities is provided in Note 30.
7 AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2009 2008 m m Remuneration receivable by the Companys auditor for the audit of the consolidated and Company financial statements 1.5 1.6 Remuneration receivable by the Companys auditor and its associates for the supply of other services to the Company and its associates, including remuneration for the audit of the financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.0 1.9 3.5 3.5 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.5 Tax services 0.7 0.4 Other services not covered above 0.8 1.5 Total remuneration 5.6 5.9 The 2008 comparatives include final fees billed in respect of the 2008 audit.
In addition to the above, fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for audit services supplied to the Companys associated pension schemes amounted to nil 2008: nil.
108 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION 2009 2008 Average number of staff employed during the year: UK 8,143 8,999 Europe 380 360 USA 417 418 Total excluding consolidated private equity investment vehicles 8,940 9,777 1 Consolidated private equity investment vehicles 384 Worldwide employees 9,324 9,777 2009 2008 Notes m m Salaries 310 330 Social security costs 38 39 Share-based incentive awards 20 23 Defined benefit pension costs 36 62 58 Defined contribution pension costs 36 34 25 Total excluding consolidated private equity investment vehicles 464 475 1 Consolidated private equity investment vehicles 8 472 475 1.
The private equity investment vehicle is controlled by virtue of a 100% holding owned by the with-profits part of the LTF.
The 8m costs of employment for private equity investment subsidiaries in 2009 primarily comprise wages and salaries.
9 PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 2009 2008 Notes m m The following items have been included in arriving at profit before income tax: Depreciation on plant and equipment 17 19 23 Amortisation of purchased interest in long term businesses and other intangibles 22 66 30 Operating lease rentals 24 24 Reinsurance commissions 11 10 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties which generate rental income 34 19 Redundancy costs 26 During the year, the Group entered into prospective reinsurance arrangements which resulted in a profit of 142m 2008: 130m.
This profit has been reflected in the consolidated income statement for the year.
10 FOREIGN EXChANGE AND EXChANGE RATES Profit for the year includes foreign exchange gains on financial instruments.
The gain for the year also includes foreign exchange losses of 10m 2008: gains of 11m arising on conversion of monetary assets and liabilities to functional currencies.
Principal rates of exchange used for translation are: 01.01.09- 01.01.08- 31.12.09 2009 31.12.08 2008 Average Year end Average Year end US Dollar 1.57 1.62 1.85 1.44 Euro 1.12 1.13 1.26 1.03 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 109 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CREDIT 2009 2008 m m Current tax Current tax for the year 112 103 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 1 Total current tax 104 104 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 291 1,127 Total income tax expense credit 395 1,023 Represented by: Income tax expense credit attributable to policyholder returns 165 662 Income tax expense credit attributable to equity holders 230 361 Total income tax expense credit 395 1,023 The Group uses estimates to apportion the income tax expense of Society between the elements attributable to policyholder returns and equity holders profits.
The net equity holders profit from UK long term business has borne tax at the effective equity holder tax rate.
For participating business and certain non profit business this is sufficiently close to the standard rate of UK corporation tax for that rate to be used in the financial statements.
For the remaining non profit business, the effective equity holder tax rate is used.
For equity holders funds within Societys LTF, the equity holder income tax is the income tax attributed to the return on those funds.
The balance of income taxes associated with UK long term business profits is then classified as income tax attributable to policyholders returns.
There is no definitive method of calculating the effective equity holder tax rate.
A number of alternative methods are consistently used in order to assess the validity of using the standard rate of UK corporation tax.
The tax assessed for the year is higher 2008: lower than the standard corporation tax rate applicable to companies operating in the UK of 28% 2008: 28.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2009 2008 m m Income tax expense credit calculated at standard UK corporation tax rate 347 614 Effects of: Income tax expense credit relating to policyholder returns 119 474 Disallowable expenditure 5 Non taxable income including dividends 4 15 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 1 Differences between taxable and accounting investment gains losses 36 7 Difference between taxable and accounting acquisition costs 6 Unrelieved tax losses 47 Overseas tax 7 6 No tax in respect of property losses attributable to minority interests 5 18 Lower higher tax on Shareholder Retained Capital SRC investment return 33 2 Difference between tax relief and accounting expense for share releases and option exercises 1 1 Reduction in UK corporate tax rate 3 Other 3 2 Total income tax expense credit 395 1,023 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax recognised directly in equity Relating to net gains or losses recognised directly in equity 25 19 Exchange losses gains 29 77 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 54 58 A surplus of 469m has been declared in the period by Societys LTF, which represents the full balance of the SRC.
As such, no deferred tax liability exists at the balance sheet date.
110 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 DIVIDENDS AND OThER DISTRIBUTIONS Per share Total Per share Total 2009 2009 2008 2008 p m p m Ordinary share dividends paid in the year Prior year final dividend 2.05 120 4.10 248 Current year interim dividend 1.11 65 2.01 119 3.16 185 6.11 367 1 Ordinary share dividend proposed 2.73 160 2.05 120 1.
The proposed current year dividend has not been included as a liability in the balance sheet.
13 EARNINGS PER ShARE Earnings per share have been calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and the profits losses for the financial year.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average numbers of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Based on profit loss attributable to equity holders Profit Number Earnings Loss Number Earnings 1 1 after tax of shares per share after tax of shares per share 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m p m m p Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 863 5,824 14.82 1,067 5,968 17.88 Net shares under options allocable for 2 no further consideration 33 0.09 22 Diluted earnings per share 863 5,857 14.73 1,067 5,990 17.88 1.
At 31 December 2008, n et shares under options allocable for no further consideration were anti-dilutive and were therefore excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
14 DISCLOSURE OF TAX EFFECTS RELATING TO EACh COMPONENT OF OThER COMPREhENSIVE INCOME Tax Tax Before credit After Before expense After tax expense tax tax credit tax 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 63 63 139 139 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes 213 59 154 26 8 18 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 86 24 62 11 3 8 Net change in financial investments designated as available-for-sale 101 35 66 83 27 56 Other comprehensive income 89 89 71 22 93 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 111 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 ShARE-BASED PAYMENTS The fair values of the share grants made during the year have been calculated using the following assumptions: SAYE SAYE PSP PSP Award date 20 Apr 09 17 Sep 09 6 May 09 16 Oct 09 Weighted average share price 49p 75p 65p 86p Weighted average exercise price 36p 56p n a n a Expected volatility 45% 45% n a n a Expected life 3 7 years 3 7 years 3 years 3 years Risk free investment rate 2.2 2.7% 2.1 3.2% n a n a Dividend yield 7.0% 4.2% n a n a Expected volatility is a measure of the tendency of a security price to fluctuate in a random, unpredictable manner.
Expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous ten years.
The expected life has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group provides the following equity settled share-based long term incentive plans for directors and eligible employees: Savings related share option scheme SAYE The SAYE allows employees to enter into a regular savings contract over either three, five or seven years, coupled with a corresponding option over shares of the Group.
The grant price is equal to 80% of the quoted market price of the Group shares on the invitation date.
Options are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price Options price 2009 2009 2008 2008 p p Outstanding at 1 January 29,189,645 90 36,140,337 82 Granted during the year 89,516,287 37 24,847,859 92 Forfeited during the year 24,932,172 84 1,367,401 97 Exercised during the year 568,786 49 14,557,902 60 Expired during the year 2,963,195 84 15,873,248 102 Outstanding at 31 December 90,241,779 39 29,189,645 90 Exercisable at 31 December 754,593 94 763,190 88 The fair values of the SAYE options granted during the year have been estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
The assumptions used in the model are shown above.
The weighted average fair value of each SAYE option granted during the year was 14p 2008: 29p.
The Group recognised total expenses of 3m 2008: 2m relating to the SAYE scheme.
The intrinsic value of vested SAYE options was nil 2008: nil at the year end.
Intrinsic value of a share option is calculated as the current share price less the option price.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4 years.
Company share option scheme CSOP Executive share option scheme ESOS The CSOP, approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC, and unapproved ESOS were designed to provide a long term incentive to directors and managers of the Group.
The number of options granted is based on the managers level, salary and performance.
The options have a ten year life but do not normally vest in the first three years.
In order to exercise the options, the Legal & General Total Shareholder Return TSR must exceed the median TSR of the FTSE 100 for a period of at least three years commencing on the date of the grant.
112 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 ShARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Company share option scheme CSOP Executive share option scheme ESOS continued Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price Options price 2009 2009 2008 2008 p p Outstanding at 1 January 34,441,666 139 38,365,089 138 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 5,246,662 145 2,911,495 146 Exercised during the year 20,000 78 640,846 86 Expired during the year 3,643,965 160 371,082 149 Outstanding at 31 December 25,531,039 134 34,441,666 139 Exercisable at 31 December 25,531,039 134 34,441,666 139 The fair values of the options granted under the CSOP ESOS are estimated using a binomial model, reflecting the historic exercise patterns.
The assumptions used in the model are disclosed on page 111.
No options have been granted since 2004 under these schemes.
The Group recognised total expenses of nil 2008: nil related to the CSOP and ESOS.
The intrinsic value of vested share options at the year end was nil 2008: nil.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2 years.
Share bonus plan SBP SBP grants restricted shares which vest with employees three years after the grant date: recipients are entitled to both vote and receive dividends.
The rights associated with SBP grants are normally forfeited on leaving the Group.
The fair value of the shares awarded has been calculated as the market value on the grant date.
During the year, 14,546,572 shares 2008: 9,512,807 shares were awarded under the SBP.
The weighted average fair value of the shares issued was 60p 2008: 124p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 8m 2008: 11m relating to the SBP.
Performance share plan PSP Conditional shares can be granted to top managers under the PSP, based upon individual and Company performance.
Under the PSP, the number of performance shares transferred to the individual at the end of the three year vesting period is dependent on the Groups relative TSR.
The award will vest in full for upper quintile performance.
One quarter of the award will vest for median performance.
Awards will vest on a straight line prorated basis for performance between the median and upper quintile.
For awards made prior to 2008, the performance condition is based upon the FTSE 100.
For awards made during or after 2008, half of each award will be measured using the existing FTSE 100 test, the remaining half is measured against a bespoke group of UK and European insurance companies.
The group comprises all UK-listed life insurers that are constituents of the FTSE 350, plus all members of the insurance sector of the FTSE Eurotop 300.
The two halves are measured independently, thus it is possible that one half may vest, whilst the other does not.
For both comparator groups, the companies used are members of the relevant indices as at the date of award.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee assesses whether the underlying performance of the Company is reflective of the TSR result.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may exercise their discretion to scale back the vesting of awards, if it is felt that the Companys performance did not justify the level of vesting.
The parameters which the Remuneration Committee use in making this assessment include market share, partnerships gained and maintained, cost constraint, capital management and shareholder perception.
During the year, 14,819,263 performance shares 2008: 2,036,380 were awarded.
The weighted average fair value of each award issued was 41p 2008: 232p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 4m 2008: 5m relating to the PSP during the year.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 113 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Employee share plan ESP Under the ESP, approved by HMRC, permanent UK employees may elect to purchase Group shares from the market at the prevailing market price on a monthly basis.
The Group supplements the number of shares purchased by matching the first 20 of the employees contributions.
From time to time, the Group may make a grant of free shares.
Both the free and matching shares must be held in trust for three years before they may vest to the employee.
After vesting the shares remain within the Trust until they are transferred to the employee or the employee leaves the Group.
The Trust is consolidated into the results of the Group with the unvested shares disclosed as employee scheme shares.
The fair value of the granted shares is equal to the market value at the grant date.
During the year, 1,526,549 shares 2008: 4,329,878 shares were granted under the ESP.
The weighted average fair value of the shares issued was 60p 2008: 117p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 5m 2008: 5m relating to the ESP during the year.
Total recognised expense The total recognised expense relating to share-based payments in 2009 was 20m 2008: 23m before tax, all of which related to equity settled share schemes.
In addition, on 6 May 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Suffolk Life Group Plc.
The total cost of these acquisitions was 365m.
Full details are provided in the 2008 full year financial statements.
114 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 PLANT AND EqUIPMENT 2009 2008 m m Cost As at 1 January 156 147 Additions 10 18 Disposals 19 9 As at 31 December 147 156 Depreciation As at 1 January 81 68 Provided during the year 19 23 Disposals 14 10 As at 31 December 86 81 Net book value at 31 December 61 75 18 INVESTMENT PROPERTY Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m Fair value at 1 January 188 1,632 2,149 3,969 Additions 11 133 533 677 Improvements 3 1 4 Disposals 63 479 294 836 Fair value gain loss 3 48 25 26 Exchange revaluation 1 1 Fair value at 31 December 138 1,337 2,364 3,839 Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Notes m m m m m Fair value at 1 January 408 27 2,638 2,896 5,969 Additions 11 1 127 139 Improvements 2 85 18 105 Disposals 58 27 485 515 1,085 Fair value loss 177 607 880 1,664 Exchange revaluation 2 2 Acquisitions 16 503 503 Fair value at 31 December 188 1,632 2,149 3,969 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 115 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 Notes m m m m m Financial investments at fair value designated as: Fair value through profit or loss 2,938 21,628 16,546 227,845 268,957 Available-for-sale 1,862 5 1,867 Held for trading 257 1,269 63 2,160 3,749 Financial investments at fair value i 5,057 22,897 16,609 230,010 274,573 Loans and receivables ii 130 1 296 1,016 1,443 Total financial investments 5,187 22,898 16,905 231,026 276,016 Expected to be settled within 12 months 47,187 Expected to be settled after 12 months 228,829 Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Notes m m m m m Financial investments at fair value designated as: Fair value through profit or loss 3,305 17,995 15,593 187,718 224,611 Available-for-sale 1,896 5 1,901 Held for trading 304 1,994 40 3,764 6,102 Financial investments at fair value i 5,505 19,989 15,633 191,487 232,614 Loans and receivables ii 98 282 1,520 1,900 Total financial investments 5,603 19,989 15,915 193,007 234,514 Expected to be settled within 12 months 40,742 Expected to be settled after 12 months 193,772 Investment risks on unit linked assets are borne by the policyholders.
The remaining risks are outlined in the risk management note see Note 48.
Financial investments include 714m 2008: 690m of debt securities pledged as collateral against derivative liabilities.
The assets used as collateral are Treasury Gilts, Foreign Government Bonds, AAA Supranational Bonds, and AAA, AA and BBB rated bonds 2008: Treasury Gilts, AAA Supranational Bonds, and AAA and AA rated bonds having a residual maturity of over 18 years 2008: over 16 years.
The Group is entitled to receive all of the cash flows from the asset during the period when it is pledged as collateral.
Further, there is no obligation to pay or transfer these cash flows to another entity.
The Group can decide to substitute an asset which is designated as collateral at any time, provided the relevant terms and conditions of the International Swap Dealers Association agreement are met.
Financial investments have been allocated between those expected to be settled within 12 months and after 12 months in line with the expected settlement of the backed liabilities.
Assets in excess of the insurance and investment contract liabilities have been classified as expected to be settled after 12 months.
116 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS CONTINUED i Financial investments at fair value Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 Notes m m m m m Equity securities 856 4,461 140,308 145,625 Debt securities 3,897 21,264 11,838 86,512 123,511 Accrued interest 47 364 247 1,030 1,688 Derivative assets 20 257 1,269 63 2,160 3,749 Total investments at fair value 5,057 22,897 16,609 230,010 274,573 Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m Equity securities 1,317 69 4,121 107,357 112,864 Debt securities 3,827 17,591 11,195 79,400 112,013 Accrued interest 56 335 251 965 1,607 Derivative assets 20 305 1,994 66 3,765 6,130 Total investments at fair value 5,505 19,989 15,633 191,487 232,614 Private equity investments are included within equity securities.
A gain of 10m 2008: loss of 19m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the movement in fair value of these investments.
Property investments which are held via partnerships or unit trust vehicles are also included within equity securities.
A loss of 3m 2008: loss of 9m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the movement in fair value of these investments.
Included within unit linked equity securities are 172m 2008: 172m of debt instruments which incorporate an embedded derivative linked to the value of the Groups share price.
CDOs The Group holds collateralised debt obligations CDOs with a market value of 1,212m at 2009 2008: 1,004m.
These holdings include 108m 2008: 126m in traded CDOs and 41m 2008: 34m exposure to an equity tranche of a bespoke CDO.
The balance of 1,063m 2008: 844m relates to a further four CDOs that were constructed in 2007 and 2008 in accordance with terms specified by Legal & General as part of a strategic review of the assets backing the annuity portfolio.
The Group selected at outset and manages the reference portfolios underlying the CDOs to give exposure to globally diversified portfolios of investment grade corporate bonds.
The Group is able to substitute the constituents of the original reference portfolios with new reference assets, allowing the management of the underlying credit risk although substitutions in 2009 were limited.
A breakdown of the underlying CDO reference portfolio by sector is provided below: 2009 2008 Sector % % Technology & Telecoms 9 9 Oil & Gas 6 6 Utilities 10 10 Insurance 6 6 Industrials 20 20 Health Care 3 3 Financial Services 6 6 Banks 14 13 Consumer Services & Goods 26 27 100 100 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 117 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The CDOs are termed as super senior since default losses on the reference portfolio have to exceed 27%, on average across the four CDOs, before the CDOs incur any default losses.
Assuming an average recovery rate of 30%, then over 39% of the reference names would have to default before the CDOs incur any default losses.
Beyond 27% of default losses on the reference portfolio, losses to the CDO would occur at a rate that is a multiple of the loss rate on the reference portfolio.
For illustration a 200m loss could be incurred if default losses to the reference portfolios exceeded 30% or if 43% of the names in the diversified global investment grade portfolio defaulted, with an average 30% recovery rate.
All figures are averages across the four CDOs.
Despite the difficult financial conditions in early 2009, the underlying reference portfolio has had no reference entity defaults in 2009.
Losses are limited under the terms of the CDOs to assets and collateral invested.
These CDOs also incorporate features under which, in certain circumstances, the Group can choose either to post additional cash collateral or to allow wind up of the structures.
These features are dependent on the portfolios weighted average spreads, default experience to date and time to maturity.
No additional collateral was posted to any of the CDOs in 2009 2008: 155m.
These CDOs are valued using an internal valuation which is based on observable market inputs.
This is then validated against the counterparty valuation and, at the year end, validated by independent external consultants.
For the purposes of valuing the non profit annuity regulatory and IFRS liabilities, the yield on the CDOs is included within the calculation of the yield used to calculate the valuation discount rate for the annuity liabilities.
An allowance for the risks, including default, is also made.
For EEV purposes, the yield on the CDOs, reduced by the realistic default assumption, is similarly included in assumed future investment returns.
ii Loans and receivables Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m Deposits with credit institutions 50 1 295 1,016 1,362 Policy loans 75 75 Other loans 5 1 6 Total loans and receivables 130 1 296 1,016 1,443 Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m Deposits with credit institutions 11 107 1,520 1,638 Policy loans 62 23 85 Other loans 25 152 177 Total loans and receivables 98 282 1,520 1,900 There are no material differences between the carrying values reflected above and the fair value of these loans.
iii Fair value hierarchy Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Fair value measurements are based on observable and unobservable inputs.
Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflects the Groups view of market assumptions in the absence of observable market information.
The Group utilises techniques that maximise the use of observable inputs and minimise the use of unobservable inputs.
118 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS CONTINUED iii Fair value hierarchy continued The levels of fair value measurement bases are defined as follows: Level 1: fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: fair values measured using valuation techniques for all inputs significant to the measurement other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: fair values measured using valuation techniques for any input for the asset or liability significant to the measurement that is not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups assets by IFRS 7 hierarchy levels: Amortised Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost m m m m m Shareholder Equity securities 856 654 99 103 Debt securities 3,897 950 2,932 15 Accrued interest 47 18 29 Derivative assets 257 2 255 Loans and receivables 130 130 Non profit non-unit linked Debt securities 21,264 945 20,319 Accrued interest 364 10 354 Derivative assets 1,269 46 1,223 Loans and receivables 1 1 With-profits Equity securities 4,461 3,966 2 493 Debt securities 11,838 3,930 7,908 Accrued interest 247 61 186 Derivative assets 63 5 58 Loans and receivables 296 296 Unit linked Equity securities 140,308 140,027 84 197 Debt securities 86,512 51,885 34,625 2 Accrued interest 1,030 355 675 Derivative assets 2,160 364 1,796 Loans and receivables 1,016 1,016 Total financial investments 276,016 203,218 70,545 810 1,443 In current market conditions, the liquidity of financial instruments is less than it has been in the past.
All of the Groups level 2 assets have been valued using standard market pricing sources, such as iBoxx, IDC and Bloomberg except for bespoke CDO and swaps holdings see below.
In normal market conditions, we would consider these market prices to be observable market prices.
However, following consultation with our pricing providers and a number of their contributing brokers, we have considered that these prices are not from a suitably active market and have prudently classified them as level 2.
Our holdings in bespoke CDOs and swaps are priced using industry standard internal models which utilise market assumptions.
The CDO valuations have also been verified using externally provided prices.
Accordingly, these assets have also been classified as level 2.
Level 3 assets, where internal models are used, represent a small proportion of assets to which shareholders are exposed and reflect unquoted equities including investments in private equity, property vehicles and suspended securities.
In many situations, inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In these situations, the Group determines the level in which the fair value falls based upon the lowest level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
As a result, both observable and unobservable inputs may be used in the determination of fair values that the Group has classified as level 3.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 119 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd The Group determines the fair values of certain financial assets and liabilities based on quoted market prices, where available.
The Group also determines fair value based on estimated future cash flows discounted at the appropriate current market rate.
As appropriate, fair values reflect adjustments for counterparty credit quality, the Groups credit standing, liquidity and risk margins on unobservable inputs.
Where quoted market prices are not available, fair value estimates are made at a point in time, based on relevant market data, as well as the best information about the individual financial instrument.
Illiquid market conditions have resulted in inactive markets for certain of the Groups financial instruments.
As a result, there is generally no or limited observable market data for these assets and liabilities.
Fair value estimates for financial instruments deemed to be in an illiquid market are based on judgements regarding current economic conditions, liquidity discounts, currency, credit and interest rate risks, loss experience and other factors.
These fair values are estimates and involve considerable uncertainty and variability as a result of the inputs selected and may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed, and the differences could be material.
As a result, such calculated fair value estimates may not be realisable in an immediate sale or settlement of the instrument.
In addition, changes in the underlying assumptions used in the fair value measurement technique could significantly affect these fair value estimates.
Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that input variables and outputs are assessed independent of the risk taker.
These inputs and outputs are reviewed and approved by a valuation committee.
a Significant transfers between level 1 and level 2: There have been no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2. b Assets measured at fair value based on level 3 Equity debt securities securities Total m m m As at 1 January 2009 743 20 763 Total gains or losses for the period recognised: in profit and loss 106 1 105 in other comprehensive income 1 1 Purchases 269 1 270 Sales 113 6 119 As at 31 december 2009 793 17 810 There have been no significant transfers to or from level 3 during 2009. c Effect on changes in significant unobservable inputs level 3 to reasonably possible alternative assumptions As discussed above, the fair value of financial instruments are, in certain circumstances measured using valuation techniques that incorporate assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on unobservable market data.
The following table shows the level 3 financial instruments carried at fair value as at the balance sheet date, the valuation basis, main assumptions used in the valuation of these instruments and reasonably possible increases or decreases in fair value based on reasonably possible alternative assumptions.
120 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS CONTINUED Reasonably possible alternative assumptions Current fair Increase in Decrease in value fair value fair value 2009 2009 2009 Financial instruments Main assumptions m m m Assets Shareholder 1 Private equity investment vehicles Price earnings multiple 9 1 1 2 Unquoted investments in property vehicles Property yield: occupancy 94 10 10 Asset backed securities Cash flows: expected defaults 15 9 9 With-profits 1 Private equity investment vehicles Price earnings multiple 98 7 7 2 Unquoted investments in property vehicles Property yield: occupancy 395 40 40 Unit linked 2 Unquoted investments in property vehicles Property yield: occupancy 193 15 15 Suspended securities Estimated recoverable amount 6 Total 810 82 82 1.
Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been determined using alternative price earnings multiples.
Unquoted investments in property vehicles are valued by independent valuers on the basis of open market value as defined in the appraisal and valuation manual of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been determined using alternative yield and occupancy assumption.
20 DERIVATIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Contract Fair values Contract Fair values notional notional 1 1 amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Shareholder derivatives: Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 600 68 629 85 Interest rate contracts held for trading 1,684 24 80 1,820 6 110 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 733 10 679 19 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 531 138 1 619 191 26 Equity index derivatives held for trading 46 14 41 12 1 Credit derivatives held for trading 179 3 6 173 11 3 Total shareholder derivatives 257 87 305 159 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives: Interest rate contracts held for trading 21,783 654 962 14,596 1,209 1,223 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 38 160 10 264 Equity index derivatives held for trading 68 478 3 50 716 Inflation swap contracts held for trading 5,913 70 152 4,106 32 341 Credit derivatives held for trading 1,106 29 145 1,855 27 392 Other derivatives held for trading 996 Total non profit non-unit linked derivatives 1,269 1,422 1,994 2,220 With-profits derivatives: Interest rate contracts held for trading 952 35 42 1,412 59 88 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 3 6 34 Equity index derivatives held for trading 398 23 7 82 7 3 Other derivatives held for trading 2 2 Total with-profits derivatives 63 55 66 125 Unit linked derivatives: Interest rate contracts held for trading 20,322 663 706 16,916 3,408 645 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 339 341 160 221 1,031 Equity index derivatives held for trading 650 822 648 419 25 2 Other derivatives held for trading 5 1 1 Inflation rate contracts held for trading 13,275 335 318 11,888 110 1,037 Total unit linked derivatives 2,160 2,013 3,765 2,715 Total derivative assets and liabilities 3,749 3,577 6,130 5,219 1.
Derivative liabilities are reported in the balance sheet within Payables and other financial liabilities see also Note 37.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 121 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The notional amounts of some derivative instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet.
However, these amounts do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The contractual undiscounted cash flows in relation to non-unit linked derivatives have the following maturity profile.
Unit linked derivatives have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to liquidity risks.
Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Fair Within Over values 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Cash inflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 257 884 223 623 1 1,731 Derivative liabilities 87 237 8 6 1 252 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 1,269 3,063 1,777 3,933 3,201 3,785 15,759 Derivative liabilities 1,422 7,102 1,465 3,126 2,633 5,529 19,855 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 63 289 93 84 28 4 498 Derivative liabilities 55 257 84 108 49 11 509 Total 25 11,832 3,650 7,880 5,913 9,329 38,604 Cash outflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 257 826 48 403 1,277 Derivative liabilities 87 284 183 78 1 546 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 1,269 2,762 1,314 3,534 2,833 3,306 13,749 Derivative liabilities 1,422 7,464 1,905 4,155 2,844 4,520 20,888 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 63 266 52 85 24 3 430 Derivative liabilities 55 271 122 111 54 13 571 Total 25 11,873 3,624 8,366 5,756 7,842 37,461 Net shareholder derivatives cash flows 11 148 1 160 Net non profit non-unit linked derivatives cash flows 61 23 630 157 1,488 977 Net with-profits derivatives cash flows 9 3 4 1 1 6 122 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20 DERIVATIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Fair Within Over values 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Cash inflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 305 40 151 642 833 Derivative liabilities 159 991 40 35 5 3 1,074 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 1,994 416 791 1,787 1,746 3,961 8,701 Derivative liabilities 2,220 5,097 685 1,405 1,123 1,976 10,286 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 66 40 79 110 40 10 279 Derivative liabilities 125 457 52 95 32 7 643 Total 139 7,041 1,798 4,074 2,946 5,957 21,816 Cash outflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 305 34 140 450 624 Derivative liabilities 159 1,040 48 28 9 5 1,130 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 1,994 340 567 1,431 1,180 2,420 5,938 Derivative liabilities 2,220 5,494 1,251 1,939 1,542 2,540 12,766 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 66 30 50 85 25 5 195 Derivative liabilities 125 507 87 126 58 14 792 Total 139 7,445 2,143 4,059 2,814 4,984 21,445 Net shareholder derivatives cash flows 43 3 199 4 2 153 Net non profit non-unit linked derivatives cash flows 321 342 178 147 977 283 Net with-profits derivatives cash flows 40 6 6 11 2 65 Cash inflows and outflows are presented on a net basis where the Group is required to settle net or has a legally enforceable right of offset and the intention is to settle on a net basis.
Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges The Group hedges part of the foreign exchange translation exposure on its net investment in its overseas subsidiaries, using forward foreign exchange contracts.
It recognises the portion of the gain or loss which is determined to be an effective hedge through reserves within shareholders equity, along with the gain or loss on translation of the foreign subsidiaries.
Interest rate swap contracts fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge fixed rate loans in particular to hedge the movement in the fair value of a loan due to interest rates.
Fair value gains and losses arising from fair value hedging relationships are as follows: Fair value losses of 21m arose on hedging instruments 2008: gains of 55m.
Fair value gains of 27m arose on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk 2008: losses of 60m.
The total fair value gain on hedging instruments shown above excludes fair value gains arising from factors which are outside the designated hedging relationship of 5m 2008: losses of 20m.
Derivative contracts held for trading The Group uses certain derivative contracts which are effective hedges of economic exposures in accordance with the Groups risk management policy, but for various reasons are not designated within a formal hedge accounting relationship.
Therefore, these contracts must be designated as held for trading, and gains and losses on these contracts are recognised immediately in the income statement.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 123 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 REINSURERS ShARE OF CONTRACT LIABILITIES Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 Notes m m m m m Reinsurers share of: Insurance contract liabilities 30 280 1,624 2 6 1,912 Investment contract liabilities 31 1 180 181 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 280 1,624 3 186 2,093 Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Notes m m m m m Reinsurers share of: Insurance contract liabilities 30 312 1,538 2 7 1,859 Investment contract liabilities 31 1 12 127 138 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 312 1,537 14 134 1,997 22 PURChASED INTEREST IN LONG TERM BUSINESSES PILTB AND OThER INTANGIBLE ASSETS PILTB PILTB Other PILTB PILTB Other insurance investment intangible insurance investment intangible contracts contracts assets Total contracts contracts assets Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 372 77 15 464 173 173 Acquisition of subsidiaries 127 77 15 219 Net exchange difference 24 24 61 61 Other 13 13 11 11 As at 31 December 335 77 15 427 372 77 15 464 Amortisation As at 1 January 230 7 237 154 154 Amortisation for the year 55 10 1 66 23 7 30 Net exchange difference 22 22 53 53 As at 31 December 263 17 1 281 230 7 237 Net book value as at 72 60 14 146 142 70 15 227 31 December To be amortised within 12 months 21 65 To be amortised after 12 months 125 162 The intangible assets above have finite useful economic lives.
124 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 DEFERRED ACqUISITION COSTS i Analysis of deferred acquisition Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 Notes m m m m Insurance contract deferred acquisition costs ii 983 80 1,111 90 Investment contract deferred acquisition costs iii 974 1,001 Deferred acquisition costs 1,957 80 2,112 90 ii Insurance contract deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m As at 1 January 1,111 90 734 66 Acquisition costs deferred 147 2 159 1 Amortisation charged to income 164 7 142 6 Decrease increase due to currency translation 116 10 282 25 Other 5 5 78 4 As at 31 December 983 80 1,111 90 To be amortised within 12 months 104 3 118 4 To be amortised after 12 months 879 77 993 86 Of the total gross deferred acquisition costs, 907m 2008: 1,011m relates to the US insurance business.
iii Investment contract deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m As at 1 January 1,001 962 Acquisition costs deferred 157 163 Amortisation charged to income 169 95 Decrease increase due to currency translation 5 11 Other 10 40 As at 31 December 974 1,001 To be amortised within 12 months 136 138 To be amortised after 12 months 838 863 24 DEFERRED TAX ASSET LIABILITIES The deferred tax balances are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax liability arising in overseas entities 303 259 Deferred tax asset arising in UK entities 796 988 493 729 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 125 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The movement in deferred tax asset liabilities during the year is as follows: Net asset Charged Net asset as at 31 credited to Charged as at 31 December the income credited to December 2008 statement equity 2009 m m m m Unrealised gains and losses on investments and debt liabilities 184 215 34 65 Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 41 1 42 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for expenses 71 126 28 27 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for actuarial reserves 251 54 20 177 Tax losses carried forward 685 5 18 662 Temporary differences in relation to the pension fund deficit 39 19 59 79 Other temporary differences 3 4 7 Acquisition of Nationwide Life Limited, Nationwide Unit Trust Managers Limited and 43 15 28 Suffolk Life Group Plc Deferred tax asset liabilities 729 291 55 493 Net liability Credited Net asset as at 31 charged to Credited as at 31 December the income charged to December 2007 statement equity 2008 m m m m Unrealised gains and losses on investments and debt liabilities 458 624 18 184 Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 32 9 41 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for expenses 7 128 64 71 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for actuarial reserves 163 66 22 251 Tax losses carried forward 232 436 17 685 Temporary differences in relation to the pension fund deficit 51 5 7 39 Other temporary differences 3 3 296 1,126 58 772 Acquisition of Nationwide Life Limited, Nationwide Unit Trust Managers Limited and 44 1 43 Suffolk Life Group Plc Deferred tax liabilities asset 340 1,127 58 729 Included in the amounts credited charged to income and equity in 2008 is 3m relating to the change in UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% in April 2008.
Following a change in UK tax law, all dividends paid on or after 1 July 2009 from L&G Group companies will be exempt from UK tax.
No UK tax liability will therefore arise in respect of any remittance of earnings from overseas subsidiaries.
As such, no deferred tax liability is recognised on these profits.
Furthermore, it is expected that no foreign tax will arise on the earnings in the jurisdiction of the foreign entity upon distribution and as such no deferred tax has been provided in respect of foreign tax.
126 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 DEFERRED TAX ASSET LIABILITIES CONTINUED Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: The Group has unrelieved trading losses carried forward as at 31 December 2009 of 25m 2008: 58m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008, as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
Relief for these losses will only be obtained if it becomes probable that suitable profits will arise in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2009 is 8m 2008: 17m.
The Group has unrelieved post-cessation trading losses carried forward as at 31 December 2009 of 15m 2008: 19m.
Relief for these losses will only be obtained if it becomes probable that suitable post-cessation of trade profits will arise in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2009 is 4m 2008: 5m.
The Group has surplus non-trading loan relationship deficits and management expenses carried forward as at 31 December 2009 of 17m 2008: 17m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these deficits and expenses as at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008, as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
Relief for these deficits and expenses will only be obtained if it becomes probable that suitable profits will arise in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2009 is 5m 2008: 5m.
The Group has capital losses carried forward as at 31 December 2009 of 77m 2008: 724m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008 as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2009 is 15m 2008: 155m.
25 INCOME TAX 2009 2008 m m Due within 12 months 1 8 Due after 12 months Income tax recoverable 1 8 2009 2008 m m Due within 12 months 126 118 Due after 12 months 14 113 Income tax payable 140 5 At 31 December 2009, a partial provision is held for a dispute with HMRC relating to the basis of recognition of taxable profit within Societys LTF.
The matter is being progressed through the Tax Tribunals Service.
The maximum exposure in relation to this issue is 232m, plus interest of 98m.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 127 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 OThER ASSETS Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m Reinsurance receivables 35 9 44 Accrued interest and rent 2 7 41 82 132 Prepayments and accrued income 132 4 4 263 403 Other receivables 283 99 56 423 861 Other assets 452 119 101 768 1,440 Due within 12 months 1,418 Due after 12 months 22 Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m Reinsurance receivables 35 2 37 Accrued interest and rent 2 36 101 139 Prepayments and accrued income 134 8 4 285 431 Other receivables 315 111 123 979 1,528 Other assets 486 121 163 1,365 2,135 Due within 12 months 2,098 Due after 12 months 37 27 CASh AND CASh EqUIVALENTS Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 199 98 62 1,153 1,512 Cash equivalents 1,382 484 1,271 6,001 9,138 Cash and cash equivalents 1,581 582 1,333 7,154 10,650 Non profit non-unit Unit Shareholder linked With-profits linked Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 237 132 100 967 1,436 Cash equivalents 1,692 856 1,434 5,270 9,252 Cash and cash equivalents 1,929 988 1,534 6,237 10,688 Included within cash equivalents is 266m of collateral posted to CDOs which is not available for shareholder liquidity requirements.
128 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ShARE CAPITAL, ShARE PREMIUM AND EMPLOYEE SChEME ShARES i Share capital and share premium 2009 Number of 2009 2008 Authorised share capital shares m m At 31 December: ordinary shares of 2.5p each 9,200,000,000 230 230 2009 Share Share Number of capital premium Issued share capital, fully paid Notes shares m m As at 1 January 2009 5,861,627,994 147 936 Options exercised under share option schemes Executive share option scheme 15 20,000 Savings related share option scheme 15 568,786 As at 31 December 2009 5,862,216,780 147 936 As at 1 January 2008 6,296,321,160 157 927 1 Shares cancelled under share buyback programme 449,891,914 11 Options exercised under share option schemes Executive share option scheme 15 640,846 1 Savings related share option scheme 15 14,557,902 1 8 As at 31 December 2008 5,861,627,994 147 936 1.
During 2008, 449,891,914 shares were repurchased and cancelled under the share buyback programme representing 7.1% of opening issued share capital, at a cost of 523m including expenses.
There is one class of ordinary shares.
All shares issued carry equal voting rights.
The holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at shareholder meetings of the Company.
ii Employee scheme shares The Group uses the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, Employee Share Trust EST and the Legal & General Group Employee Share Plan ESP to purchase and hold shares of the Group for delivery to employees under various employee share schemes.
Shares owned by these vehicles are included at cost in the consolidated balance sheet and are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
They are disclosed as employee scheme shares until they vest to employees.
Share-based liabilities to employees may also be settled via purchases directly from the market or by the issue of new shares.
The ESOT has waived its voting rights and its rights to some of the dividends payable on the shares it holds.
Employees are entitled to dividends on the shares held on their behalf within the EST and the ESP.
2009 2008 Number of 2009 Number of 2008 shares m shares m As at 1 January 40,565,428 46 38,176,859 42 Shares purchased 3,140,535 2 8,181,427 10 Shares vested 9,851,595 10 5,792,858 6 As at 31 December 33,854,368 38 40,565,428 46 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 129 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 MINORITY INTERESTS Minority interests represent third party interests in property investment vehicles which are consolidated in the Groups results.
The reduction in the minority interests in 2009 arises from the dilution of the Groups ownership of St Giles Limited Partnership and The Leisure Fund Limited Partnership, below 50%.
30 INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES i Analysis of insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 Notes m m m m Participating insurance contracts iii 9,404 1 9,384 1 1 Non-participating insurance contracts iv 28,353 1,902 25,582 1,847 General insurance contracts v 230 9 259 11 Insurance contract liabilities 37,987 1,912 35,225 1,859 1.
ii Expected insurance contract liability cash flows Date of undiscounted cash flow Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years Over 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Participating insurance contracts 5,807 3,949 1,152 462 11,370 9,404 Non-participating insurance contracts 8,450 14,047 12,128 15,026 49,651 19,029 1 General insurance contracts 110 110 110 Insurance contract liabilities 14,367 17,996 13,280 15,488 61,131 28,543 Date of undiscounted cash flow Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years Over 25 years Total value m m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 Life and pensions participating insurance contracts 5,849 3,757 867 326 10,799 9,384 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts 8,148 13,360 11,559 14,334 47,401 17,695 1 General insurance contracts 128 128 128 Insurance contract liabilities 14,125 17,117 12,426 14,660 58,328 27,207 1.
Excludes unearned premium reserve of 120m 2008: 131m for which there are no cash flows.
Insurance contract undiscounted cash flows are based on the expected date of settlement.
Amounts under unit linked contracts are generally repayable on demand and the Group is responsible for ensuring there is sufficient liquidity within the asset portfolio to enable liabilities to unit linked policyholders to be met as they fall due.
However, the terms of funds investing in less liquid assets permit the deferral of redemptions for predefined periods in circumstances where there are not sufficient liquid assets within the fund to meet the level of requested redemptions.
Accordingly, unit linked liabilities have been excluded from the table.
130 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES CONTINUED iii Movement in participating insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 Notes m m m m As at 1 January 9,384 1 11,663 1 New liabilities in the year 658 333 Liabilities discharged in the year 1,157 1,628 Unwinding of discount rates 92 383 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 34 48 58 Effect of change in economic assumptions 34 430 1,348 Other 51 77 As at 31 December 9,404 1 9,384 1 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,366 1,522 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 8,037 7,861 iv Movement in non-participating insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 Notes m m m m As at 1 January 25,582 1,847 22,568 1,302 New liabilities in the year 2,339 312 3,020 262 Liabilities discharged in the year 2,004 136 1,493 79 Unwinding of discount rates 1,233 103 1,022 88 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 34 319 188 87 121 1 Effect of change in economic assumptions 34 1,871 2 1,366 26 Foreign exchange adjustments 363 33 946 82 Acquisitions 1,172 286 Other 14 5 200 1 As at 31 December 28,353 1,902 25,582 1,847 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,927 751 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 24,524 22,984 1.
The economic assumptions changes in 2009 principally reflect the narrowing of credit spreads.
Movements in credit spreads also increased the value of the corresponding backing assets.
In 2008, the Effect of changes in economic assumptions includes the impact arising from the prevailing interest rate environment and increased credit spreads reducing liabilities, partially offset by 650m of additional reserves for non profit annuity credit default.
v Analysis of General insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Outstanding claims 87 3 99 4 Claims incurred but not reported 23 29 Unearned premiums 120 6 131 7 General insurance contract liabilities 230 9 259 11 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 131 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED vi Movement in General insurance claim liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m As at 1 January 128 4 172 12 Claims arising 188 1 231 4 Claims paid 177 2 235 6 Adjustments to prior year liabilities 29 40 6 As at 31 December 110 3 128 4 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 79 88 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 28 36 vii Unearned premiums Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m As at 1 January 131 7 133 7 Earned in the period 131 7 133 7 Gross written premiums in respect of future periods 120 6 131 7 As at 31 December 120 6 131 7 Expected to be earned within 12 months net of reinsurance 114 124 Expected to be earned after 12 months net of reinsurance viii Claims development General insurance Changes may occur in the amount of the Groups obligations at the end of a contract period.
The top section of the following two tables illustrates how the estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year developed over time.
The bottom section of the tables reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
Gross of reinsurance 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total Accident year m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 209 205 294 191 164 1,063 One year later 195 192 277 189 853 Two years later 191 192 276 659 Three years later 191 190 381 Four years later 190 190 Estimate of cumulative claims 190 190 276 189 164 1,009 Cumulative payments 185 183 271 176 90 905 Outstanding claims provision 5 7 5 13 74 104 Prior period outstanding claims 2 Claims handling provision 4 Total claims liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 110 132 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES CONTINUED viii Claims development General insurance continued Net of reinsurance 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total Accident year m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 205 200 280 189 162 1,036 One year later 193 188 267 188 836 Two years later 189 189 265 643 Three years later 189 186 375 Four years later 187 187 Estimate of cumulative claims 187 186 265 188 162 988 Cumulative payments 184 180 262 176 89 891 Outstanding claims provision 3 6 3 12 73 97 Prior period outstanding claims 7 Claims handling provision 3 Total claims liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 107 31 INVESTMENT CONTRACT LIABILITIES i Analysis of investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 Notes m m m m Participating investment contracts 7,139 1 6,992 12 Non-participating investment contracts iii 234,502 180 196,698 126 Investment contract liabilities ii 241,641 181 203,690 138 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 43,675 37,058 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 197,785 166,494 ii Movement in investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m As at 1 January 203,690 138 232,368 208 Reserves in respect of new business 37,618 750 38,583 741 Amounts paid on surrenders and maturities during the year 32,382 571 36,852 504 Investment return and related benefits 33,221 136 33,500 307 Management charges 313 378 Foreign exchange adjustments 193 527 Acquisitions 2,942 As at 31 December 241,641 181 203,690 138 Fair value movements of 24,317m 2008: 32,743m are included within the income statement arising from movements in investment contract liabilities designated as FVTPL.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 133 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED iii Non-participating investment contract liability fair value hierarchy Amortised Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m Non-participating investment contracts 234,502 234,318 152 32 The fair value of financial liabilities are, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation techniques that incorporate assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data.
Non-participating unit linked investment contracts include 32m valued using significant unobservable inputs and have been classified as level 3.
These liabilities have limited transactions and are backed by property investments.
There have been no significant transfers between any of the levels.
iv Expected investment contract liability cash flows Date of undiscounted cash flow Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years Over 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Participating investment contracts 2,880 3,729 1,980 1,113 9,702 7,139 Date of undiscounted cash flow Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years Over 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Participating investment contracts 2,880 3,701 1,939 1,053 9,573 6,992 Investment contract undiscounted net cash flows are based on the expected date of settlement.
Accordingly unit linked liabilities have been excluded from the reported cash flows.
A maturity analysis based on the earliest contractual repayment date would present investment contract liabilities as due on the earliest period of the table because policyholders can exercise cancellation options at their discretion.
In such a scenario, the liability would be reduced due to the application of surrender penalties.
134 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 UNALLOCATED DIVISIBLE SURPLUS 2009 2008 m m As at 1 January 913 1,721 Transferred from to the income statement 430 806 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes transferred from the statement 62 8 of comprehensive income Foreign exchange adjustments 3 10 As at 31 December 1,284 913 It is intended that the with-profits part of the LTF will be managed on the basis that it will remain open to new business and therefore there is no expectation of any distribution from the inherited estate.
33 VALUE OF IN-FORCE NON-PARTICIPATING CONTRACTS i Movement in value of in-force non-participating contracts 2009 2008 m m As at 1 January 171 276 Unwinding of the discount rates 7 14 Investment return 193 149 Other 4 30 As at 31 December 367 171 Expected to be settled within 12 months 53 17 Expected to be settled after 12 months 314 154 ii Expected net cash flows Date of undiscounted cash flow Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years Over 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Value of in-force non-participating contracts 250 224 108 57 639 367 Date of undiscounted cash flow Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years Over 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Value of in-force non-participating contracts 94 125 49 33 301 171 Value of in-force non-participating undiscounted net cash flows are based on the expected date of realisation.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 135 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34 LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS The Groups insurance assumptions, described below, relate exclusively to the UK insurance business.
The non-UK businesses do not constitute a material component of the Groups operations and consideration of geographically determined assumptions is therefore not included.
Non-participating business For its non-participating business the Group seeks to make prudent assumptions about its future experience based on current market conditions and recent experience.
The approach used to set non-participating assumptions is generally similar to that used to determine the assumptions used for FSA statutory peak 1, although the actual assumptions may sometimes differ from those used for regulatory reporting purposes.
These assumptions incorporate prudent margins in excess of our best estimate assumptions to reduce the possibility of actual experience being less favourable than assumed.
Valuation rates of interest and discount rates The valuation interest rate for each contract type is based on the yield on the assets backing the contract adjusted for the risk that asset proceeds are not received by the Group.
For some business, this yield is the gross redemption yield on fixed interest securities and the running yield on variable interest securities.
For other business it is the Internal Rate of Return on the portfolio of backing assets.
In 2008 the Group established reserves to protect against a significant short term uplift in defaults.
In 2009 the Group decided that it was prudent to have a short term uplift in default allowance and increase the long term default allowance to 36bps 2008: 30bps per annum for unapproved securities backing non-profit business, 35bps 2008: 30bps per annum for unapproved securities backing with-profits business, and to remain at 3bps per annum for approved securities and swaps.
The total credit default allowances equate to 1.5bn, or 68bps per annum 2008: 1.2bn and 68bps repesctively for unapproved securities backing non-profit annuity business when expressed over the duration of the assets held.
A similar methodology has been used for assets backing with-profits business.
The Group believes the total default allowance is prudent to cover all reasonably foreseeable circumstances.
For equity investments, the yield is based on the current dividend yield, adjusted for prudence.
For property holdings, yields are based on the rental income payable calculated by considering different categories of tenant separately, adjusted for the possibility of default.
Default rates used in the calculations vary by tenant category.
136 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34 LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS CONTINUED Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity assumptions are set with reference to standard tables drawn up by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau CMIB of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are based on industry-wide experience.
The majority of internal statistical investigations are carried out at least annually to determine the extent to which the Groups experience differs from that of the industry and suggest appropriate adjustments which need to be made to the valuation assumptions.
Persistency The Group monitors its persistency experience and carries out detailed investigations annually.
Persistency can be volatile and past experience may not be an appropriate future indicator.
The Group tries to balance past experience and future conditions by making prudent assumptions about the future expected long term average persistency levels.
For non-participating contracts where explicit persistency assumptions are not made, prudence is also incorporated into the liabilities by ensuring that they are sufficient to cover the more onerous of the two scenarios where the policies either remain in-force until maturity or where they discontinue at the valuation date.
Expenses The Group monitors its expense experience and carries out detailed investigations regularly to determine the expenses incurred in writing and administering the different products and classes of business.
Adjustments may be made for known future changes in the administration processes, in line with the Groups business plan.
An allowance for expense inflation in the future is also made, taking account of both salary and price information.
Participating business For its participating business, the Group seeks to establish its liabilities at their realistic value in line with the requirements set out in FRS 27.
Non-economic assumptions are set to represent the Groups best estimates of future experience.
Economic assumptions The FSAs realistic reporting regime requires a market consistent economic model.
The model is calibrated using market data from a variety of market sources.
This enables assumptions to be determined for the term structure of risk free interest rates, property and equity volatility.
Risk free interest rates are determined with reference to the gilt yield curve on the valuation date increased by ten basis points.
Property volatility is set with reference to historic variations in property prices.
Equity volatility is set so that the model reproduces observed market prices of traded equity derivatives.
Correlations between asset classes are based on historic data.
Each investment scenario contains a consistent set of assumptions for investment returns and inflation.
Future bonuses Future reversionary and terminal bonuses are consistent with the bonus policies set out in Societys Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts The Group makes a deduction from the liabilities for the expected value of future profits arising on non-participating contracts written in the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The economic assumptions used to calculate the value of these profits are consistent with those used to calculate liabilities for with-profits business, with the addition of a liquidity premium in respect of assets backing non-participating annuity business.
Non-economic assumptions represent best estimates of expected future experience on this business.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 137 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Guaranteed annuity options The guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The valuation methodology allows for the correlation between interest rates and the proportion of the policyholders who take up the option.
Guaranteed cash options The liability is determined assuming that policyholders choose the most valuable alternative between the annuity and cash available at retirement.
The table below sets out the current valuation assumptions used to establish the long term liabilities for Society, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGPL and Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited.
2009 2008 Rate of interest discount rates Non-participating business 1 1 Life assurances 2.25% pa and 7.60% pa 2.25% pa and 7.60% pa 1 1 Pension assurances 2.75 3.75% pa and 7.60% pa 2.50 3.75% pa and 7.60% pa Annuities in deferment 5.49% pa 6.50% pa Annuities in deferment RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for inflation 1.31% pa 2.20% pa Vested annuities 5.05 5.49% pa 5.54 6.50% pa Vested annuities RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for inflation 0.50 1.31% pa 0.80 2.20% pa Participating business Risk free rate 10 years 4.39% pa 3.57% pa Future bonuses Determined stochastically Determined stochastically in line with bonus policy in line with bonus policy as stated in PPFM as stated in PPFM UK equity volatility 10 year option term 26.5% 36.4% Property volatility 15.0% 15.0% Mortality tables Non-participating business Non-linked individual term assurances: 2 2 Smokers 105 114% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 109 123% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 2 2 Non-smokers 95 115% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 103 125% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 2 2 Smoker status unknown 129% TM00 TF00 Sel 5 138% TM00 TF00 Sel 5 2 2 Non-linked individual term assurances with critical illness 66 101% CIBT93M F Ult Comb 66 99% CIBT93M F Ult Comb 2 2 Other non-linked non profit life assurances A67 70 suitably age adjusted A67 70 suitably age adjusted Annuities in deferment 67 - 70% AM92 AF92 69 78% AM92 AF92 3 Vested annuities Bulk purchase annuities 90 94% PCMA00 PCFA00 90 94% PCMA00 PCFA00 Other annuities 60 88% PCMA00 PCFA00 61 88% PCMA00 PCFA00 1.
For product groups where liabilities are positive, the lower interest rate of 2.25% or 2.75 3.75% is used 2008: 2.25% or 2.50 3.75%.
However, for product groups where liabilities are negative, the higher rate of 7.60% 2008: 7.60% is used.
For term assurance with critical illness, morbidity rates are assumed to deteriorate at a rate of 0.50% pa for males and 0.75% pa for females 2008: 1.00% pa for males and 1.75% pa for females.
An additional loading for guaranteed level term contracts of 0.85% multiplied by policy term less 5 years is applied.
The corresponding loading for guaranteed decreasing term contracts is 0.65% multiplied by policy term less 5 years.
No allowance is made for AIDS.
For vested annuities, mortality rates are assumed to reduce according to CMIB Working Paper 30 projection MC with a minimum of 2.0% 2008: 2.0% pa up to age 90 tapering to a minimum of 0% 2008: 0% pa at age 120 for males.
For females, mortality rates are assumed to reduce according to 75% 2008: 75% CMIB projection MC with a minimum of 1.5% 2008: 1.5% pa up to age 90 tapering to a minimum of 0% 2008: 0% pa at age 120.
For certain annuities, a further allowance is made for the effect of initial selection.
138 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34 LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS CONTINUED Premiums non-participating business For those contracts where the policyholder does not have the right to vary the amount of the premium paid, full credit is taken for the premiums contractually due at the valuation date.
For contracts where the policyholder has the option to vary the rate of premium, the provision is taken as being the higher of the amount calculated as if the policyholder continues to make premium payments or, alternatively, ceases to pay premiums altogether.
Persistency non-participating business Lapse rates are used in the valuation of certain classes of long term business.
Where this is the case, the valuation persistency basis is set by applying a prudential margin over the best estimate assumptions.
The tables below show the major products where lapse rates have been used.
In 2009, Whole of Life conventional non profit used lapse rates for the first time.
For term assurance business, the margin acts to increase the best estimate lapse rate in the early part of a policys lifetime when it is treated as an asset but to reduce the best estimate lapse rate later in the policys lifetime when it is treated as a liability.
The crossover point at which the margin changes direction is assessed for broad product groups but applied at a policy by policy level.
Any liability to reinsurers on discontinuance within the first four years from inception is allowed for explicitly in the cash flows, using the valuation lapse basis, together with a prudent allowance for clawback of commission from agents upon lapse.
For unitised business, the margin acts to either increase or decrease the best estimate lapse rates, depending upon which approach results in the higher liability.
The direction of the margin is assessed for unit life business and unit pensions business separately.
A summary of the lapse basis for major classes of business, as defined by the requirements of the annual returns to the FSA, is shown below: 2009 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 Product % % % % Level term 13.9 9.5 6.0 3.1 Decreasing term 14.2 9.7 6.5 6.0 Accelerated critical illness cover 20.0 10.6 5.4 5.0 Pensions term 12.5 8.6 5.7 5.1 Whole of Life conventional non profit 4.2 2.0 0.7 0.0 Savings endowment unitised with-profits 0.0 1.7 2.3 4.3 Target cash endowment unitised with-profits 3.7 3.4 3.7 2.9 Savings endowment unit linked 0.0 1.7 2.3 4.3 Target cash endowment unit linked 3.7 3.4 3.7 2.9 Bond unitised with-profits 1.2 3.0 2.9 3.0 Bond unit linked 2.4 6.3 3.9 3.7 Individual pension regular premium unitised with-profits 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.3 Individual pension regular premium unit linked 2.1 1.5 1.6 1.6 Group pension regular premium unitised with-profits 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 Group pension regular premium unit linked 1.4 1.4 1.2 1.2 Trustee Investment Plan regular premium unitised with-profits 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Trustee Investment Plan regular premium unit linked 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 Individual pension single premium unitised with-profits 3.1 2.9 2.9 2.9 Individual pension single premium unit linked 3.6 3.2 2.5 2.5 Group pension single premium unitised with-profits 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 Group pension single premium unit linked 7.3 7.3 7.3 7.3 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unitised with-profits 9.3 9.0 8.6 8.6 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unit linked 6.4 5.5 4.1 4.1 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 139 NOTES TO ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2008 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 Product % % % % Level term 12.6 9.1 5.5 2.9 Decreasing term 12.6 9.1 5.8 5.3 Accelerated critical illness cover 18.4 10.5 5.3 4.9 Pensions term 11.9 8.8 5.4 4.8 Savings endowment unitised with-profits 0.0 2.3 3.0 3.6 Target cash endowment unitised with-profits 3.6 4.4 4.3 3.8 Savings endowment unit linked 0.0 2.3 3.0 3.6 Target cash endowment unit linked 3.6 4.4 4.3 3.8 Bond unitised with-profits 1.5 5.9 4.1 3.7 Bond unit linked 2.3 5.6 3.8 3.6 Individual pension regular premium unitised with-profits 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 Individual pension regular premium unit linked 1.6 1.1 1.1 1.1 Group pension regular premium unitised with-profits 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Group pension regular premium unit linked 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Trustee Investment Plan regular premium unitised with-profits 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Trustee Investment Plan regular premium unit linked 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Individual pension single premium unitised with-profits 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 Individual pension single premium unit linked 3.5 3.0 2.8 2.8 Group pension single premium unitised with-profits 7.7 7.7 7.7 7.7 Group pension single premium unit linked 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unitised with-profits 10.5 10.2 10.1 10.1 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unit linked 6.5 5.3 5.0 5.0 Endowment reserve The endowment reserve has been set taking reasonable account of an assessment of the expected future population of complaints, the expected uphold rate for these complaints, the potential impact of any Financial Ombudsman Service decisions on referred complaints and the average compensation per complaint.
Overseas business In calculating the long term business provisions for international long term business operations, local actuarial tables and interest rates are used.
140 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 35 BORROWINGS i Analysis by type Borrowings Borrowings excluding excluding unit linked Unit linked unit linked Unit linked borrowings borrowings Total borrowings borrowings Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 1,897 1,897 1,657 1,657 Senior borrowings 1,291 161 1,452 2,134 180 2,314 1 Client fund holdings of Group debt 72 72 Total borrowings 3,188 89 3,277 3,791 180 3,971 1.
72m of the Groups subordinated and senior debt 27m and 45m respectively is currently held by Legal & General customers through unit linked products.
These borrowings are shown as a deduction from total borrowings in the table above.
The prior year has not been restated.
Unit linked borrowings are excluded from the analysis below as the risk is retained by the policyholders.
ii Borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings Analysis by nature Carrying Coupon Carrying Coupon amount rate Fair value amount rate Fair value 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m % m m % m Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities Tier 1 666 6.39 473 692 6.39 414 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes Tier 2 425 5.88 326 426 5.88 287 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 Tier 2 498 4.00 455 539 4.00 283 10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 Tier 2 308 10.00 364 Total subordinated borrowings 1,897 1,618 1,657 984 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 5.87 558 608 5.87 493 Euro commercial paper 2010 98 0.47 98 609 3.69 610 Bank loans 2010 9 0.51 9 154 6.20 154 Non recourse financing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 262 2.23 185 369 2.94 369 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 274 0.60 194 308 2.25 308 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 86 5.47 86 LGV 6 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership 40 2.63 40 Total senior borrowings 1,291 1,084 2,134 2,020 Total borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings 3,188 2,702 3,791 3,004 Total borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings and non recourse financing 2,612 2,283 3,028 2,241 127m of interest expense was incurred during the period 2008: 145m on borrowings excluding non recourse financing and unit linked borrowings.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities In 2007, Legal & General Group Plc issued 600m of 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities.
Simultaneous with the issuance, the fixed coupon was swapped into six month LIBOR plus 0.94% pa.
These securities are callable at par on 2 May 2017 and every three months thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 2 May 2017 will be reset to three month LIBOR plus 1.93% pa. For regulatory purposes these securities are treated as innovative tier 1 capital.
These securities have been classified as liabilities as the interest payments become mandatory in certain circumstances.
5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes In 2004, Legal & General Group Plc issued 400m of 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes.
These notes are callable at par on 1 April 2019 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 1 April 2019 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 2.33% pa.
These notes are treated as upper tier 2 capital for regulatory purposes.
4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 In 2005, Legal & General Group Plc issued 600m of 4.0% Euro dated subordinated notes.
The proceeds were swapped into sterling.
The notes are callable at par on 8 June 2015 and each year thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 8 June 2015 will reset to a floating rate of interest based on prevailing three month Euribor plus 1.7% pa.
These notes mature on 8 June 2025 and are treated as lower tier 2 capital for regulatory purposes.
10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 On 16 July 2009, Legal & General Group Plc issued 300m of 10% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 23 July 2021 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 23 July 2021 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 9.325% pa.
These notes mature on 23 July 2041 and are treated as lower tier 2 capital for regulatory purposes.
Non recourse financing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 In 2004, a subsidiary of Legal & General America Inc issued US$550m of non recourse debt in the US capital markets to meet the Triple X reserve requirements of part of the US term insurance written up to 2005.
It is secured on the cash flows related to that tranche of business.
US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 In 2006, a subsidiary of Legal & General America Inc issued US$450m of non recourse debt in the US capital markets to meet the Triple X reserve requirements of part of the US term insurance written after 2005 and 2006.
Sterling property partnership loans 2011 The property partnership loans were secured on specific properties.
LGV 6 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership These borrowings are non recourse bank borrowings.
142 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 35 BORROWINGS CONTINUEd iii Borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings Analysis by maturity Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Carrying Within Over amount 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities Tier 1 666 600 600 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes Tier 2 425 400 400 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 Tier 2 498 531 531 10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 Tier 2 308 300 300 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 590 10 600 Euro commercial paper 2010 98 98 98 Bank loans 2010 9 9 9 Non recourse financing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 262 266 266 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 274 278 278 LGV 6 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership 40 3 8 29 40 Total borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings 3,188 110 8 29 1,387 1,588 3,122 Contractual undiscounted interest payments 157 627 1,562 1,237 219 3,802 Total contractual undiscounted cash flows 267 635 1,591 2,624 1,807 6,924 Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Carrying Within Over amount 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 6.385% Sterling perpetual capital securities Tier 1 692 600 600 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes Tier 2 426 400 400 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 Tier 2 539 583 583 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 590 10 600 Euro commercial paper 2009 609 611 611 Bank loans 2009 154 154 154 Non recourse financing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 369 375 375 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 308 313 313 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 86 85 85 Total borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings 3,791 765 85 1,548 1,323 3,721 Contractual undiscounted interest payments 144 564 1,384 1,067 33 3,192 Total contractual undiscounted cash flows 909 649 1,384 2,615 1,356 6,913 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd As at 31 December 2009, the Group had in place a 960m syndicated committed revolving credit facility provided by a number of its key relationship banks, maturing in December 2012.
The maturity profile above is calculated on the basis that a facility to refinance a maturing loan is not recognised unless the facility and loan are related.
If refinancing under the Groups syndicated facility was recognised, then all amounts shown as repayable within one year would be reclassified as repayable between one and five years.
Undiscounted interest payments are estimated based on the year end applicable interest rate and spot exchange rates.
Short term assets available at the holding company level exceeded the amount of short term borrowings of 107m Euro Commercial Paper and Bank Loans.
36 PROvISIONS i Analysis of provisions 2009 2008 Notes m m 1 Retirement benefit obligations ii 746 551 Other provisions 11 4 757 555 1.
Retirement benefit obligations are presented gross of 465m of annuity obligations insured by Society 2008: 411m.
ii Retirement benefit obligations defined contribution plans The Group operates the following defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group Personal Pension Plan UK.
Legal & General Staff Stakeholder Pension Scheme UK.
Legal & General America Inc. Savings Plan US.
Rgime fide Retraite Professionnel France.
Legal & General Nederland Stichting Pensioenfonds Netherlands : replacing the early retirement scheme previously part of the defined benefit plan.
Legal & General International Ireland Limited Retirement Solution Plan Ireland.
Contributions of 34m 2008: 25m were charged as expenses during the year in respect of defined contribution plans.
defined benefit plans The Group operates the following defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group UK Pension and Assurance Fund the Fund.
The Fund was closed to new members from January 1995: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
Legal & General Group UK Senior Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme was, with a few exceptions principally transfers from the Fund, closed to new members from August 2000 and finally closed to new members from April 2007: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
Legal & General America Inc. Cash Balance Plan: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2008.
Legal & General Nederland Stichting Pensioenfonds: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2007.
Rgime fide Retraite Prestations Dfinies fide Legal & General France : last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2009.
The benefits paid from the defined benefit schemes are based on percentages of the employees final pensionable salary for each year of credited service.
The Group has no liability for retirement benefits other than for pensions, except for a small scheme in France Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire, which provides lump sum benefits on retirement.
The Fund and Scheme account for virtually all of the UK and over 98% of worldwide assets of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
144 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 36 PROvISIONS CONTINUEd ii Retirement benefit obligations continued The principal actuarial assumptions for the UK defined benefit schemes were: Fund and Fund and Scheme Scheme 2009 2008 % % Rate used to discount liabilities 5.70 6.50 Expected return on plan assets 6.37 6.71 1 Rate of increase in salaries 2.30 2.30 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.60 3.20 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 4.30 3.75 Rate of general inflation RPI 3.60 2.70 Rate of wage inflation 2.30 2.30 Post retirement mortality 2009: 100% Fund 85% Scheme of PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at 100% MC males, 75% MC females, minimum improvement 1.5% pa males and 1.0% pa females, with tapering of minimum improvement rate linearly down to nil between ages 90 and 120 2008: 100% Fund 85% Scheme of PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at 100% MC males, 75% MC females, minimum improvement 1.5% pa males and 1.0% pa females 1.
On 1 December 2008, the conditions of the Fund and Scheme were amended to cap future pensionable salary increases at a maximum of 2.5% each year with effect from 1 January 2009.
Fund and Fund and Scheme Overseas Scheme Overseas 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations As at 1 January 1,160 27 1,365 19 Current service cost 10 1 17 1 Past service cost 5 Interest expense 74 2 77 1 Plan participants contributions 3 Actuarial loss gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 258 1 249 Benefits paid 56 1 48 1 Exchange differences 2 7 As at 31 december 1,446 28 1,160 27 Movement in fair value of plan assets As at 1 January 609 27 771 18 Expected return on plan assets 41 2 51 1 Actuarial gain loss recognised in statement of comprehensive income 46 222 1 Employer contributions 59 3 54 4 Plan participants contributions 3 Benefits paid 56 1 48 1 Exchange differences 2 6 As at 31 december 699 29 609 27 Gross pension obligations included in provisions 747 1 551 Annuity obligations insured by Society 465 411 Gross defined benefit pension deficit 282 1 140 Deferred tax on defined benefit pension deficit 79 39 Net defined benefit pension deficit 203 1 101 The total amount of actuarial losses gains net of tax recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the year was 154 m: cumulative 271 m 2008: 18m: cumulative 117 m. Actuarial losses gains net of tax relating to with-profits policyholders of 62 m 2008: 8m have been allocated to the unallocated divisible surplus.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 145 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd The historic funding and experience adjustments are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,474 1,187 1,384 1,346 1,304 Fair value of plan assets 728 636 789 778 722 Gross pension obligations 746 551 595 568 582 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 18 3 19 13 9 Experience adjustments on plan assets 46 222 32 10 76 The fair value of the plan assets and expected return at the end of the year is made up as follows: Expected Expected UK return Overseas return As at 31 december 2009 m % m % Equities 351 7.0 8 8.2 Bonds 311 5.7 17 4.1 Properties 37 6.0 Other investments 4 2.8 699 29 Expected Expected UK return Overseas return As at 31 December 2008 m % m % Equities 293 7.0 5 8.3 Bonds 280 6.5 18 4.1 Properties 36 6.0 Other investments 4 2.3 609 27 The average credit rating of the bond portfolio is AA 2008: AA.
The expected rate of return for bonds is based on the current yield on a medium to long term AA bond index.
The expected rates of return on equities and properties are based on margins over bond yields reflecting risk premiums.
In 2009, the return on plan assets, excluding annuity obligations, was 89m 2008: 173 m. Employer contributions increased to 62m 2008: 58m including a pension deficit reduction payment of 41m 2008: 39m.
Employer contributions of 29m are expected to be paid to the plan during 2010.
The following amounts have been charged credited to the income statement: 2009 2008 m m Current service costs 11 18 Interest expense 76 78 Expected return on plan assets 43 52 Total included in other expenses 44 44 146 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 37 PAyABLES ANd OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2009 2008 Notes m m Derivative liabilities 20 3,577 5,219 Collateral received from banks 459 668 Other 967 912 Payables and other financial liabilities 5,003 6,799 Settled within 12 months 4,497 6,116 Settled after 12 months 506 683 Other includes future commission payments which have contingent settlement provisions of 167m 2008: 186m.
This liability has been determined using the net present value of the future commission which will be payable on fund values.
This valuation technique uses assumptions which are consistent with the Groups effective rate of interest, investment return assumptions and persistency assumptions used in other valuations, but it is not determined by reference to published price quotations.
The undiscounted value which is expected to be paid at maturity in respect of such commission is 225m 2008: 229m.
Payables and other financial liabilities settled after 12 months are expected to be settled within five years.
i Fair value hierarchy Amortised Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m Derivative liabilities 3,577 2,184 1,393 Collateral received from banks 459 459 Other 967 60 167 740 Payables and other financial liabilities 5,003 2,643 1,453 167 740 Trail commissions are modelled using expected cash flows, incorporating expected future persistency.
They have therefore been classified as level 3 liabilities.
The entire movement in the balance has been reflected in the income statement during the year.
A reasonably possible alternative persistency assumption would have the effect of increasing or decreasing the liability by 5m.
There have been no significant transfers between levels.
38 OTHER LIABILITIES 2009 2008 m m Accruals 216 188 Reinsurers' share of deferred acquisition costs 80 90 Deferred income liabilities 407 463 Other 189 256 Other liabilities 892 997 Settled within 12 months 422 496 Settled after 12 months 470 501 Other liabilities settled after 12 months are expected to be settled within five years.
39 NET ASSET vALUE ATTRIBUTABLE TO UNIT HOLdERS Amortised Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m Net asset value attributable to unit holders 1,929 1,108 821 Amounts attributable to unit holders are repayable on demand and the Group is responsible for ensuring there is sufficient liquidity within the corresponding asset portfolio to enable the liability to be met as it falls due.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 147 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 40 RELATEd PARTy TRANSACTIONS There were no material transactions between directors or key managers and the Legal & General group of companies.
All transactions between the Group, its directors and key managers are on commercial terms which are no more favourable than those available to employees in general.
Contributions to the post-employment benefit plans are outlined in Note 36.
At 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 there were no loans outstanding to officers of the Company.
Key management personnel compensation The aggregate compensation for key management personnel, including executive and non-executive directors, is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Salaries 7 5 Social security costs 1 1 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based incentive awards 3 3 Key management personnel compensation 12 10 Number of key management personnel 18 16 The UK defined benefit pension schemes have purchased annuity contracts issued by Society for consideration of 51m 2008: 49m during the year, priced on an arms length basis.
The Groups investment portfolio includes investments in venture capital, property and financial investments which are held via collective investment vehicles.
Net investments in associate investment vehicles totalled 1,780m during the year 2008: 1,488m.
The Group has outstanding loans to these associates of 7m 2008: 2m and received investment management fees of 30m during the year 2008: 43m.
Distributions from these investment vehicles to the Group totalled 57m 2008: 170m.
41 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, GUARANTEES ANd INdEMNITIES Provision for the liabilities arising under contracts with policyholders is based on certain assumptions.
The variance of actual experience from that assumed may result in such liabilities differing from the provisions made for them.
Liabilities may also arise in respect of claims relating to the interpretation of policyholder contracts, or the circumstances in which policyholders have entered into them.
The extent of these liabilities is influenced by a number of factors including the actions and requirements of the FSA, ombudsman rulings, industry compensation schemes and court judgments.
Various Group companies receive claims and become involved in actual or threatened litigation and regulatory issues from time to time.
The relevant members of the Group ensure that they make prudent provision as and when circumstances calling for such provision become clear, and that each has adequate capital and reserves to meet reasonably foreseeable eventualities.
The provisions made are regularly reviewed.
It is not possible to predict, with certainty, the extent and the timing of the financial impact of these claims, litigation or issues.
In 1975, Legal & General Assurance Society Limited the Society was required by the Institute of London Underwriters ILU to execute the ILU form of guarantee in respect of policies issued through the ILUs Policy Signing Office on behalf of NRG Victory Reinsurance Company Ltd Victory, a company which was then a subsidiary of the Society.
In 1990, Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep Holding NV the assets and liabilities of which have since been assumed by Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV under a statutory merger in the Netherlands acquired Victory and provided an indemnity to the Society against any liability the Society may have as a result of the ILUs requirement, and the ILU agreed that its requirement of the Society would not apply to policies written or renewed after the acquisition.
Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV is now owned by Columbia Insurance Company, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Whether the Society has any liability as a result of the ILUs requirement and, if so, the amount of its potential liability, is uncertain.
The Society has made no payment or provision in respect of this matter.
Group companies have given indemnities and guarantees as a normal part of their business and operating activities or in relation to capital market transactions.
Legal & General Group Plc has provided indemnities and guarantees in respect of the liabilities of Group companies in support of their business activities.
148 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 42 COMMITMENTS i Capital commitments 2009 2008 m m Authorised and contracted commitments not provided for in respect of investment property development, payable after 31 December Long term business 16 35 ii Operating lease commitments 2009 2008 m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 27 34 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 93 130 Later than 5 years 201 333 321 497 Future aggregate minimum sublease payments expected to be received under operating subleases 11 10 The future aggregate minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 4 2 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 11 10 Later than 5 years 2 3 17 15 The Group leases offices and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 149 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 43 SUBSIdIARIES i Operating subsidiaries The principal operating subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are listed below.
The Company holds, directly or indirectly, all of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of these companies.
Company name Nature of business Country of incorporation 1 Legal & General Finance PLC Treasury operations England and Wales 1 Legal & General Resources Limited Provision of services England and Wales Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Long term and general insurance England and Wales Legal & General Insurance Limited General insurance England and Wales Legal & General Investment Management Limited Institutional fund management England and Wales Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Long term business England and Wales Legal & General Pensions Limited Reinsurance England and Wales Legal & General Partnership Services Limited Provision of services England and Wales Legal & General Portfolio Management Services Limited Institutional fund management England and Wales Legal & General Property Limited Property management England and Wales Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Limited Unit trust management England and Wales Nationwide Life Limited Long term business England and Wales Suffolk Life Annuities Limited Long term business England and Wales Suffolk Life Pensions Limited Long term business England and Wales LGv Capital Limited Private equity England and Wales Legal & General France SA Long term business France Legal & General Bank France SA Financial services France Legal & General International Ireland Limited Long term business Ireland Legal & General Nederland Levensverzekering Maatschappij Nv Long term business Netherlands Banner Life Insurance Company Inc Long term business USA William Penn Life Insurance Company of New york Inc Long term business USA Legal & General Investment Management America Inc Institutional fund management USA First British American Reinsurance Company Reinsurance USA First British American Reinsurance Company II Reinsurance USA First British Bermudan Reinsurance Company Reinsurance Bermuda 1.
Directly held by Legal & General Group Plc.
All other subsidiaries are held through intermediate holding companies.
The main territory of operation of subsidiaries incorporated in England and Wales is the UK.
For overseas subsidiaries the principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
All subsidiaries have a 31 December year end reporting date.
The complete list of subsidiary undertakings can be obtained from the registered office at One Coleman Street, London, EC2R 5AA.
150 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 43 SUBSIdIARIES CONTINUEd ii Investment vehicles The following mutual funds and partnerships have been consolidated as a result of the Groups ability to exert control over the financial and operating activities of the investment vehicle so as to obtain economic benefits.
year end % of equity shares vehicle name vehicle type Territory reporting date by the Group Chineham Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property partnership Jersey 31 12 2009 100.0 Ealing Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property partnership Jersey 31 12 2009 100.0 Gresham Street Limited Partnership Property partnership Jersey 31 12 2009 100.0 Legal & General City Offices Limited Partnership Property partnership Jersey 31 12 2009 100.0 Legal & General Investment Management Open ended investment Global Opportunities Fixed Income Fund Plc company Ireland 31 12 2009 100.0 Legal & General Life Fund Limited Partnership Property partnership England and Wales 31 12 2009 100.0 Legal & General Spectrum Jersey Unit Trust Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 2009 100.0 Northampton Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property partnership Jersey 31 12 2009 100.0 Legal & General Investment Management UK Open ended investment Smaller Companies Alpha Fund Plc company Ireland 31 12 2009 99.9 Legal & General Special Situations Trust Equity unit trust UK 14 09 2009 99.9 Legal & General Investment Management Open ended investment Global Macro Fund Plc company Ireland 31 12 2009 99.5 LGv 6 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership Private equity partnership England and Wales 31 12 2009 99.4 Legal & General Asian Income Trust Equity unit trust UK 10 09 2009 90.9 Legal & General Japanese Trust Equity unit trust UK 17 10 2009 89.9 Legal & General Investment Management Open ended investment Liquidity Funds Plc company Ireland 31 12 2009 86.5 Legal & General North American Trust Equity unit trust UK 16 01 2009 86.0 Legal & General European Trust Equity unit trust UK 28 07 2009 83.9 ARC Property Fund Unit Trust Property unit trust Jersey 31 12 2009 80.0 Legal & General Pacific Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 18 09 2009 80.0 Legal & General diversified Absolute Return Trust Equity unit trust UK 25 09 2009 78.5 Legal & General Equity Trust Equity unit trust UK 15 08 2009 75.3 Legal & General Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 15 05 2009 70.5 Legal & General Global Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 15 01 2009 68.0 Legal & General High Income Trust Fixed interest unit trust UK 05 09 2009 67.0 Legal & General UK Smaller Companies Trust Equity unit trust UK 18 06 2009 66.8 Legal & General Pacific Index Trust Equity unit trust UK 25 03 2009 59.0 1 Lagoon Finance Limited Limited liability company Ireland 31 12 2009 1 Trees SA Limited liability company Luxembourg 30 06 2009 1.
Lagoon Finance Limited and Trees SA are consolidated on the basis that the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and has the rights to receive 100% of the economic benefits.
Only the controlled cell of the Trees SA investment vehicle is consolidated.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 44 ASSOCIATES ANd JOINT vENTURES The Group has the following significant holdings which have been included as financial investments or investments in associates.
The gross assets of these companies are in part funded by borrowings which are non recourse to the Group.
Country of Accounting year end % of equity shares Company name incorporation treatment reporting date held by Group 1 Bracknell Property Unit Trust Jersey FvTPL 31 03 2009 50.5 Central St Giles Unit Trust Jersey FvTPL 31 12 2009 50.0 2 Legal & General Gulf BSC Bahrain Equity method 31 12 2009 50.0 Mithras Capital Fund Limited Partnership Scotland FvTPL 31 12 2009 50.0 Performance Shopping Centre Limited Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 31 12 2009 50.0 Warrington Retail Unit Trust Jersey FvTPL 31 12 2009 50.0 Meteor Industrial Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 31 12 2009 49.9 Legal & General UK Alpha Trust England and Wales FvTPL 18 06 2009 49.8 Legal & General European Index Trust Plc England and Wales FvTPL 31 07 2009 49.2 Legal & General Ethical Trust England and Wales FvTPL 12 12 2009 48.3 LGv 3 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 31 12 2009 46.6 LGv 1 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 30 11 2009 46.3 Legal & General Active Opportunities Trust England and Wales FvTPL 14 10 2009 45.7 Legal & General US Index Trust England and Wales FvTPL 05 12 2009 43.8 UK Logistics Fund Unit Trust Jersey FvTPL 31 12 2009 42.3 Arlington Business Parks Unit Trust Jersey FvTPL 31 12 2009 41.0 The Leisure Fund Unit Trust Jersey FvTPL 31 12 2009 39.8 English Cities Fund England and Wales FvTPL 31 12 2009 37.5 Legal & General Japanese Index Trust England and Wales FvTPL 24 10 2009 37.1 LGv 2 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 31 12 2009 37.1 LGv 4 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 31 12 2009 36.7 LGv 5 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FvTPL 30 11 2009 36.0 2 Baroda L&G Life Insurance Company Limited India Equity method 31 03 2009 26.0 Cofunds Holdings Limited England and Wales Equity method 31 12 2009 25.4 Legal & General Fixed Interest Trust England and Wales FvTPL 05 09 2009 23.0 dunedin Capital Group Limited Scotland FvTPL 28 02 2009 22.6 Legal & General distribution Trust England and Wales FvTPL 14 10 2009 21.2 1.
The Bracknell Property Unit Trust is not consolidated as the Group does not have the power to control the entity.
Legal & General Gulf BSC and Baroda L&G Life Insurance Company Limited are joint venture operations.
Summarised financial information for associates which are classified as FVTPL is shown below.
Private Property Unit equity partnerships trusts Total 2009 m m m m Aggregate revenues 30 82 512 624 Aggregate profit 24 40 137 201 Gross assets 152 2,441 4,677 7,270 Gross liabilities 3 1,337 104 1,444 Private Property Unit equity partnerships trusts Total 2008 m m m m Aggregate revenues 68 141 198 407 Aggregate profit 60 79 144 283 Gross assets 187 3,225 4,717 8,129 Gross liabilities 6 1,559 99 1,664 152 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 45 GOOdWILL RESULTING FROM ACqUISITIONS The cumulative goodwill charged to reserves prior to 1998, arising from acquisition of subsidiaries which are still part of the Group, amounted to 70m 2008: 70m.
46 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES Capital structure The Groups total capital resources of 7.3bn 2008: 6.1bn on an IFRS basis comprise equity holders capital, 4.2bn 2008: 3.6bn, subordinated debt, 1.8bn 2008: 1.6bn, and unallocated divisible surplus, 1.3bn 2008: 0.9bn.
From a regulatory perspective the Group is required to measure and monitor its capital resources on an ongoing basis and to comply with the minimum capital requirements of regulators in each territory in which we operate.
At 31 December 2009, Legal & Generals unaudited Insurance Group Directive IGD capital resources were 3.1bn in excess of capital requirements of 2.5bn, representing a solvency coverage ratio of 224%.
This surplus capital is after accruing for a 2009 final dividend of 160m.
The Group writes a range of long term insurance and investment business in the long term fund LTF of its main operating insurance subsidiary, Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society.
This fund is segregated from the Groups other assets.
The fund includes participating with-profits business where policyholders and shareholders share in the risks and rewards, and non-participating non profit business, where the shareholders receive profits or incur losses.
Capital in excess of the amount required to cover the liabilities is currently held within Society.
This capital provides support for new and existing non profit business within our UK non profit Risk and Savings pensions businesses.
The non-linked non profit pensions and annuity business of Society is ceded, on arms length terms, to a wholly owned Insurance Special Purpose Vehicle ISPV, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGPL.
Whilst an ISPV is not required to segregate policyholder assets within a LTF, LGPL continues to manage policyholder and shareholder assets separately for internal purposes.
Managed pension fund business is written through Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited PMC, which is a life company writing predominantly non-participating group pension business effected by trustees of occupational schemes in the UK or their equivalent overseas.
The assets are held in a LTF and are separate from other assets within the Group.
In addition, the Group operates two UK long term insurance businesses acquired in 2008 Nationwide Life Limited and Suffolk Life Annuities Limited.
General insurance business is written in the UK by Legal & General Insurance Limited, and long term insurance business is written by subsidiaries in America, the Netherlands and France.
Capital management policies and objectives The Group aims to manage its capital resources so as to maintain financial strength, policyholder security and relative external ratings advantage.
The Group also seeks to maximise its financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and by utilising a range of alternative sources of capital including equity, senior debt, subordinated debt and reinsurance.
Capital measures The Group measures its capital on a number of different bases, including those which comply with the regulatory frameworks within which the Group operates and those which the directors consider most appropriate for managing the business.
The measures used by the Group include: Accounting bases Management use the primary financial statements prepared on an IFRS basis to manage capital and cash flow usage and to determine dividend paying capacity.
In addition, the supplementary accounts prepared using EEV principles provide further insight into the value of the business to shareholders.
Accordingly the Groups net asset value and total capital employed are also analysed and measured on this basis.
Regulatory bases The financial strength of the Groups insurance subsidiaries is measured under various local regulatory requirements see below.
One of these regulatory measures, Individual Capital Assessment ICA, measures capital using risk based stochastic techniques, and provides a measure of the level of economic capital required to run the Groups business.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 153 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Basis of regulatory capital and corresponding regulatory capital requirements In each country in which the Group operates, the local insurance regulator specifies rules and guidance for the minimum amount and type of capital which must be held by long term insurance subsidiaries in excess of their insurance liabilities.
The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the year.
This helps to ensure that payments to policyholders can be made as they fall due.
The required capital is calculated by either assessing the additional assets which would be required to meet the insurance companys liabilities in specified, stressed financial conditions, or by applying fixed percentages to the insurance companys liabilities and risk exposures.
The requirements in the different jurisdictions in which the Group operates are detailed below: UK regulatory basis Required capital for the life business is based on FSA rules.
Society must hold assets in excess of the higher of two amounts, the first being calculated using the FSA rules specified by the Regulator pillar 1, the second being an economic capital assessment by the Company which is reviewed by the FSA pillar 2, otherwise known as Individual Capital Assessment ICA.
The public pillar 1 capital calculation is calculated by applying fixed percentages to liabilities and sums assured at risk or setting aside a proportion of expenses Peak 1.
There are further stress tests for participating business, as measured in the Realistic Balance Sheet Peak 2, which may increase the required capital under Peak 1 calculations.
The private pillar 2 capital calculation is an assessment of the economic capital required to ensure that the Company can meet its liabilities, with a high likelihood, as they fall due.
This is achieved by application of stochastic modelling and scenario testing.
The result is reviewed and may be modified by the FSA.
Regulatory capital for the general insurance business is also calculated using FSA pillar 1 and pillar 2 requirements.
The pillar 1 calculation applies fixed percentages to premiums and claims.
Pillar 2 creates a higher capital requirement and is therefore applied in this business.
US regulatory basis Required capital is determined to be the Company Action Level Risk Based Capital RBC based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners RBC model.
RBC is a method of measuring the minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations, taking into account its size and risk profile.
The calculation is based on applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items, with higher factors used for those items with greater underlying risk and lower factors for less risky items.
French and Dutch regulatory bases The minimum required capital is defined by the French Ministry of Finances Code des Assurances and the fide Nederlandsche Bank N. V. Dutch Supervisory Body respectively.
The basis of the calculation is a percentage of the liabilities plus a percentage of the sum assured at risk and, for some contracts, the premium.
The percentages depend on the guarantees given and the amount of reinsurance cover.
Group regulatory basis In addition to the regulatory capital calculations for the individual firms, the Group is required to comply with the requirements of the Insurance Group Directive IGD.
154 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 46 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES CONTINUEd Available regulatory capital resources Capital resources available to meet regulatory UK capital requirements are determined using FSA valuation rules.
The asset valuation rules are based on UK GAAP, adjusted for admissibility and counterparty exposure limits and specific valuation differences.
The Groups regulatory capital position statement in Table 1 sets out the different sources of capital held within the Group.
The Groups 1 total available capital resources, based on unaudited FSA returns, are 5.1bn 2008: 4.0bn of which 4.2bn 2008: 2.6bn is held by the life businesses.
The use of capital held by the UK and overseas life businesses is generally constrained by local regulatory requirements, and may not be available to provide funding for other businesses.
The total available capital resources of the Groups with-profits business with-profits estate is determined in accordance with the Realistic Balance Sheet rules prescribed by the FSA.
At 31 December 2009, the realistic value of the UK participating liabilities was 15.3bn 2008: 14.7bn under the FSA realistic capital regime.
The excess of realistic assets over realistic liabilities was 0.8bn 2008: 0.6bn.
The capital resources reflect the surplus in that part of the fund which is in excess of any constructive obligation to policyholders.
The liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet do not include the amount representing the shareholders share of future bonuses.
The FSA returns are audited and filed subsequent to the publication of the Groups capital position.
Table 1 Regulatory capital position statement Shareholders UK UK non equity and withprofit and Overseas other 1 profits SRC LPGL and PMC Total life activities Total As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m m m Ordinary shareholders equity outside the LTF 157 703 1,553 2,413 492 2,905 Ordinary shareholders equity in the LTF 1,291 1,291 1,291 Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,448 703 1,553 3,704 492 4,196 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Unallocated divisible surplus 1,249 35 1,284 1,284 2 Other 408 609 763 1,780 227 2,007 Other qualifying capital: Subordinated borrowings 1,815 1,815 3 Internal loans 981 981 981 Proposed dividend 160 160 Total available capital resources 841 839 1,684 825 4,189 939 5,128 IFRS liability analysis: UK participating liabilities on realistic basis: Options and guarantees 723 723 723 Other policyholder obligations 13,447 33 13,480 13,480 Overseas participating liabilities 2,340 2,340 2,340 Unallocated divisible surplus 1,249 35 1,284 1,284 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 367 367 367 Participating contract liabilities 15,052 33 2,375 17,460 17,460 Unit linked non-participating life assurance 554 491 1,404 2,449 2,449 liabilities Non-linked non-participating life assurance 1,953 21,878 2,073 25,904 25,904 liabilities Unit linked non-participating investment 8,152 18,341 208,009 234,502 234,502 contract liabilities General insurance liabilities 230 230 Non-participating contract liabilities 10,659 40,710 211,486 262,855 230 263,085 1.
UK non profit and SRC includes Nationwide Life Limited and Suffolk Life Annuities Limited.
Other consists of shareholders share in realistic liabilities of 307m and changes to the values of assets and liabilities on a regulated basis of 1,700m.
Internal loans wholly comprises the contingent loan 981m from Society shareholders equity to LGPL, which is reflected in the value of LGPL for regulatory purposes.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 155 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd UK UK Shareholders withnon profit Overseas equity and 1 profits and SRC LPGL and PMC Total life other activities Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Ordinary shareholders equity outside the LTF 166 373 1,466 1,259 1,236 2,495 Ordinary shareholders equity in the LTF 1,093 1,093 1,093 Capital and reserves attributable to 1,259 373 1,466 2,352 1,236 3,588 equity holders of the Company Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Unallocated divisible surplus 950 37 913 913 2 Other 309 586 742 1,637 285 1,922 Other qualifying capital: Subordinated borrowings 1,570 1,570 3 Internal loans 938 938 938 Proposed dividend 120 120 Total available capital resources 641 673 565 687 2,566 1,463 4,029 IFRS liability analysis: UK participating liabilities on realistic basis Options and guarantees 1,034 1,034 1,034 Other policyholder obligations 12,976 39 13,015 13,015 Overseas participating liabilities 2,327 2,327 2,327 Unallocated divisible surplus 950 37 913 913 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 171 171 171 Participating contract liabilities 14,789 39 2,290 17,118 17,118 Unit linked non-participating life assurance 515 457 1,387 2,359 2,359 liabilities Non-linked non-participating life assurance 1,944 19,070 2,255 23,269 23,269 liabilities Unit linked non-participating investment 6,835 15,300 174,517 196,652 196,652 contract liabilities General insurance liabilities 259 259 Non-participating contract liabilities 9,294 34,827 178,159 222,280 259 222,539 1.
UK non profit and SRC includes Nationwide Life Limited and Suffolk Life Annuities Limited acquired during 2008.
Other consists of shareholders share in realistic liabilities of 179m and changes to the values of assets and liabilities on a regulated basis of 1,743m.
Internal loans wholly comprises the contingent loan 938m from Society shareholders equity to LGPL, which is reflected in the value of LGPL for regulatory purposes.
Available regulatory capital resource risks The Groups available capital resources are sensitive to changes in market conditions, both to changes in the value of the assets and to the impact which changes in investment conditions may have on the value of the liabilities.
Capital resources are also sensitive to assumptions and experience relating to mortality and morbidity and, to a lesser extent, expenses and persistency.
The most significant sensitivities arise from the following four risks: market risk in relation to UK participating business which would crystallise if adverse changes in the value of the assets supporting this business could not be fully reflected in payments to policyholders because of the effect of guarantees and options.
The capital position of this business would also deteriorate if increases to the market cost of derivatives resulted in an increase in the liability for guarantees and options in the realistic balance sheet.
market risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the return from the fixed interest investments supporting this business were lower than that assumed for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the mortality of annuitants improved more rapidly than the assumptions used for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK and US term assurance businesses, which would crystallise if mortality of the lives insured was higher than that assumed, possibly because of an epidemic.
156 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 46 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES CONTINUEd A range of management actions is available to mitigate any adverse impact from changing market conditions and experience, including changes to with-profits bonus rates, changes to discretionary surrender terms and charging for guarantees.
To the extent that management actions are expected only to offset partially adverse experience, then liabilities would be increased to anticipate the future impact of the adverse experience and total capital resources would be reduced.
Table 2 below provides management estimates of the impact on IGD surplus to changes in market conditions: Table 2 IGd sensitivity analysis Impact on surplus capital 2009 m Sensitivity test 20% fall in equity values 0.3 40% fall in equity values 0.6 15% fall in property values 0.1 100bp increase in interest rates 0.3 100bp increase in credit spreads 0.1 Details of IFRS and EEV sensitivity analysis can be found in Tables 6 and 7 of Note 48.
Movements in life business regulatory capital resources The movement in the life business regulatory capital resources is shown in Table 3.
Table 3 Movements in life business regulatory capital resources UK UK non profit Overseas Total 1 with-profits and SRC LGPL and PMC life m m m m m As at 1 January 2009 641 673 565 687 2,566 Effect of investment variations 241 75 47 3 272 Effect of changes in valuation assumptions 11 52 121 184 Changes in regulatory requirements 26 39 139 204 New business 44 95 67 75 147 Cash distributions 108 87 195 Capital contributions 600 48 648 Other factors 8 216 339 110 657 As at 31 december 2009 841 839 1,684 825 4,189 1.
UK non profit and SRC includes Nationwide Life Limited and Suffolk Life Annuities Limited acquired in 2008.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 157 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd UK UK non profit Overseas Total 1 2 with-profits and SRC LGPL and PMC life m m m m m As at 1 January 2008 1,047 1,130 1,210 562 3,949 Effect of investment variations 279 449 250 15 963 Effect of changes in valuation assumptions 14 118 779 675 New business 38 187 147 75 447 Cash distributions 30 150 83 263 Acquisitions 156 156 Other factors 75 65 681 268 809 As at 31 december 2008 641 673 565 687 2,566 1.
Effect of changes in valuation assumptions includes a 650m increase in credit default reserving.
The corresponding deferred tax asset is included within Other factors.
47 ASSETS ANALySIS The Group has categorised its assets and liabilities in the following disclosure in accordance with the level of shareholder exposure to market and credit risks.
The four categorisations presented are: Unit linked For unit linked contracts, there is a direct link between the investments and the obligations.
Unit linked business is written in both the Society LTF and in the LTF of PMC.
The financial risk on these contracts is borne by the policyholders.
The Group is, therefore, not directly exposed to any market risk, currency risk or credit risk for these contracts.
Detailed risk disclosures have not been presented for unit linked assets and liabilities.
With-profits Policyholders and shareholders share in the risks and returns of the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The return to shareholders on virtually all participating products is in the form of a transfer to shareholders equity, which is analogous to a dividend from the Society LTF and is dependent upon the bonuses credited or declared on policies in that year.
The bonuses are broadly based on historic and current rates of return on equity, property and fixed income securities, as well as expectations of future investment returns.
With-profits also includes participating business in the France operation which shares similar characteristics.
The with-profits classification excludes unit linked contracts.
Non profit non-unit linked Shareholders are exposed to the risk and rewards of ownership of assets backing non profit non-unit linked business held within UK LTFs.
Shareholder All other assets are classified as shareholder assets.
Shareholders of the Group are directly exposed to market and credit risk on these assets.
This includes the assets and liabilities of our overseas insurance operations.
The table overleaf presents an analysis of the balance sheet by category.
All of the quantitative risk disclosures in Note 48 Risk management and control have been provided using this categorisation.
158 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Non profit non-unit Shareholder linked With-profits Unit linked Total As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 45 45 Plant and equipment 61 61 1 Investments 6,906 23,362 19,575 240,544 290,387 Purchased interests in long term business 146 146 Other operational assets 2,580 2,468 260 979 6,287 Total assets 9,738 25,830 19,835 241,523 296,926 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 1,897 27 1,870 Participating contract liabilities 34 17,218 208 17,460 Non-participating contract liabilities 1,716 22,465 1,953 236,951 263,085 Senior borrowings 1,242 9 40 116 1,407 1 Other liabilities 2,525 1,570 577 4,232 8,904 Total liabilities 7,380 24,078 19,788 241,480 292,726 Non profit non-unit Shareholder linked With-profits Unit linked Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 14 14 Plant and equipment 75 75 1 Investments 7,720 20,589 19,080 201,394 248,783 Purchased interests in long term business 118 109 227 Other operational assets 2,927 2,405 393 1,515 7,240 Total assets 10,854 23,103 19,473 202,909 256,339 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 1,657 1,657 Participating contract liabilities 39 16,890 189 17,118 Non-participating contract liabilities 2,514 19,070 1,944 199,011 222,539 Senior borrowings 2,031 29 74 180 2,314 1 Other liabilities 2,237 2,761 456 3,525 8,979 Total liabilities 8,439 21,899 19,364 202,905 252,607 1.
For risk management purposes, bespoke consolidated CDOs are considered on a net basis.
Accordingly, the table above presents derivative liabilities of 118m 2008: 388m as a deduction to non profit non-unit linked investments and other liabilities.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 159 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL This section describes the Groups approach to risk management.
It covers the overall approach that applies to all risks, and includes a detailed review of risks within the Groups key businesses.
Risk management objectives The Groups primary objective in undertaking risk management activity is to manage risk exposures in line with risk appetite, minimising its exposure to unexpected financial loss and limiting the potential for deviation from anticipated outcomes.
In this respect, a framework of limits and qualitative statements, aligned with the Groups risk appetite, is in place for material exposures.
Risk management approach A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance and management of risk.
The Group is exposed to insurance, market, credit, liquidity and operational risks and operates a formal risk management framework to ensure that all significant risks are identified and managed.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Insurance risk: the risk arising from higher claims being experienced than anticipated.
Market risk: the risk arising from fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates, share prices and other relevant market prices.
Credit risk: the risk of loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group, though solvent, does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
Operational risk: the risk arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Contagion risk: the occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in contagion elsewhere in the Group.
An explanation of the risk framework and the methods used to monitor and assess risk exposures can be found in pages 46 to 49.
Management of risks The Group seeks to manage its exposures to risk through control techniques which ensure that the residual risk exposures are within acceptable tolerances agreed by the Board.
The key control techniques for the major categories of risk exposure are summarised in the following sections.
Insurance risk Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and arises as a consequence of the type and volume of business written and the concentration of risk in particular policies or groups of policies subject to the same risks.
A detailed review of the Groups inherent residual risks associated with insurance products is included on pages 174 to 179.
Insurance risk is managed using the following techniques: Policies and delegated authorities for underwriting, pricing and reinsurance The Groups insurance risk policy sets out the overall framework for the management of insurance risk.
As part of the framework, a structure of delegated pricing and underwriting authorities is in place.
Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance exposures are limited through reinsurance.
Overall, the Group seeks to be conservative in its acceptance of insurance risks by establishing strict underwriting criteria and limits.
The underwriting policy is clearly documented, setting out risks which are unacceptable and the terms applicable for non-standard risks.
Reinsurance is used to reduce potential loss to the Group from individual large risks and catastrophic events.
It may also be used to manage capital or to provide access to specialist underwriting expertise.
The Group makes extensive use of reinsurance for its UK individual protection business, placing a proportion of all risks meeting prescribed criteria.
The principal General insurance reinsurances are excess of loss catastrophe treaties, under which the cost of claims from a weather event, in excess of an agreed retention level, is recovered from insurers.
160 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Reserving policy All subsidiaries writing insurance business have a documented reserving policy setting out the basis on which liabilities are to be determined using statistical analysis and actuarial experience.
Policies for each subsidiary are in line with locally established actuarial techniques, relevant regulation and legislation.
Further details of the assumption setting process are included in Note 34.
Market risk The Group exposure to market risk is influenced by one or more external factors, including changes in specified interest rates, financial instrument prices, foreign exchange rates, and indices of prices or rates.
Significant areas where the Group is exposed to these risks are: assets backing insurance and investment contracts other than unit linked contracts: assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: and other financial assets and liabilities The Groups market risk policy sets out the overall framework for the management of market risk.
The policy is reinforced by more granular investment policies for long term and other business, which have due regard to the nature of liabilities and guarantees and other embedded options given to policyholders.
The Group manages market risk using the following methods: Asset liability matching The Group manages its assets and liabilities in accordance with relevant regulatory requirements, reflecting the differing types of liabilities it has in each business.
For business such as immediate annuities, which is sensitive to interest rate risk, analysis of the liabilities is undertaken to create a portfolio of securities, the value of which changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
Interest rate risk cannot be completely eliminated, due to the nature of the liabilities and early redemption options contained in the assets.
For businesses where a range of asset types, including equity and property, are held to meet liabilities, the Group uses stochastic models to assess the impact of a range of future return scenarios on investment values and associated liabilities.
This allows the Group to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy which optimises returns to its policyholders over time, whilst limiting the capital requirements associated with these businesses.
The Group uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
Derivatives The Group uses derivatives to reduce market risk.
The most widely used derivatives are exchange-traded equity futures and swaps.
The Group may use futures to facilitate efficient asset allocation.
In addition, derivatives are used to improve asset liability matching and to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and inflation risks.
It is the Groups policy that amounts at risk through derivative transactions are covered by cash or corresponding assets and that swaps are collateralised to reduce counterparty exposure.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to lower returns or loss as a direct or indirect result of fluctuations in the value of, or income from, specific assets and liabilities arising from changes in underlying interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on the investment portfolio it maintains to meet the obligations and commitments under its non-linked insurance and investment contracts, in that the proceeds from the assets may not be sufficient to meet the Groups obligations to policyholders.
To mitigate the risk that guarantees and commitments are not met, the Group purchases financial instruments, which broadly match the expected non-participating policy benefits payable, by their nature and term.
The composition of the investment portfolio is governed by the nature of the insurance or savings liabilities, the expected rate of return applicable on each class of asset and the capital available to meet the price fluctuations for each asset class, relative to the liabilities they support.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 161 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates will vary the repayments on variable rate debt issued by the Group Note 35.
Asset liability matching significantly reduces the Groups exposure to interest rate risk.
Sensitivity to interest rate changes is included in Table 2 of Note 46 and Tables 6 and 7 of Note 48.
Inflation risk Inflation risk is the potential for loss as a result of relative or absolute changes in inflation rates.
The Group is exposed to inflation risk in two specific areas.
Certain non-linked contracts, such as annuities, may provide for future benefits to be paid taking account of changes in the level of inflation.
Contracts in payment may also include an annual adjustment for movements in price indices, subject to an annual cap.
The Group seeks to manage the risk of movements in price indices through an appropriate investment strategy including the use of inflation swaps.
In writing long term business, the Group makes assumptions regarding the future costs of product servicing.
The assumptions take account of changes in price indices and the costs of employment, with stress testing evaluating the effect of significant deviations on the Groups capital position.
Currency risk The Group is potentially exposed to loss as a result of fluctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group manages its currency risk exposure in the following way: In respect of long term business assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies, the Group protects its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations by backing obligations with investments in the same currency.
Balance sheet foreign exchange currency translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows net foreign currency assets to be hedged through the use of derivatives.
As described in Note 47, the Group is not directly exposed to risks on unit linked contracts.
162 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Table 1 Currency risk Table 1 summarises the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, in sterling.
The functional currency represents the currency of the primary economic environment in which each of the Groups subsidiaries operates.
As at 31 december 2009 Japanese Functional Carrying Sterling Euro US dollar yen Other currency value Shareholder m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 45 45 Plant and equipment 61 61 Investments 799 800 30 5,277 6,906 Purchased interests in long term business 146 146 Other operational assets 3 5 5 2,577 2,580 Total assets 802 805 25 8,106 9,738 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 573 1,324 1,897 Participating contract liabilities Non-participating contract liabilities 31 20 1,665 1,716 Senior borrowings 66 1,176 1,242 Other liabilities 10 242 2,273 2,525 Total liabilities 31 649 262 6,438 7,380 Non profit non-unit linked Assets Investment in associates Plant and equipment 1 Investments 76 7,455 19 15,812 23,362 Purchased interests in long term business Other operational assets 2,468 2,468 Total assets 76 7,455 19 18,280 25,830 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings Participating contract liabilities 34 34 Non-participating contract liabilities 22,465 22,465 Senior borrowings 9 9 1 Other liabilities 92 7,239 5,761 1,570 Total liabilities 92 7,248 16,738 24,078 1.
Accordingly the table above presents derivative liabilities of 118m as a deduction to non profit non-unit linked investments and other liabilities.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 163 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd As at 31 december 2009 Japanese Functional Carrying Sterling Euro US dollar yen Other currency value With-profits m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates Plant and equipment Investments 721 645 406 681 17,122 19,575 Purchased interests in long term business Other operational assets 1 259 260 Total assets 721 646 406 681 17,381 19,835 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings Participating contract liabilities 17,218 17,218 Non-participating contract liabilities 1,953 1,953 Senior borrowings 40 40 Other liabilities 19 23 1 1 535 577 Total liabilities 19 23 1 1 19,746 19,788 164 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Table 1 Currency risk continued As at 31 December 2008 Japanese Functional Carrying Sterling Euro US Dollar Yen Other currency value Shareholder m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 14 14 Plant and equipment 75 75 Investments 886 423 59 87 6,265 7,720 Purchased interests in long term business 118 118 Other operational assets 1 3 2 2,925 2,927 Total assets 887 426 59 85 9,397 10,854 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 539 1,118 1,657 Participating contract liabilities Non-participating contract liabilities 25 1 13 1 2,474 2,514 Senior borrowings 92 1,939 2,031 Other liabilities 272 848 1,117 2,237 Total liabilities 25 904 861 1 6,648 8,439 Non profit non-unit linked Assets Investment in associates Plant and equipment 1 Investments 1,576 4,435 14,578 20,589 Purchased interests in long term business 109 109 Other operational assets 3 2,402 2,405 Total assets 1,576 4,438 17,089 23,103 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings Participating contract liabilities 39 39 Non-participating contract liabilities 19,070 19,070 Senior borrowings 29 29 1 Other liabilities 1,545 4,423 3,207 2,761 Total liabilities 1,545 4,423 15,931 21,899 1.
Accordingly, the table above presents derivative liabilities of 388m as a deduction to non profit non-unit linked investments and other liabilities.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 165 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd As at 31 December 2008 Japanese Functional Carrying Sterling Euro US Dollar Yen Other currency value With-profits m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates Plant and equipment Investments 646 665 443 457 16,869 19,080 Purchased interests in long term business Other operational assets 1 5 1 6 380 393 Total assets 647 670 444 463 17,249 19,473 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings Participating contract liabilities 16,890 16,890 Non-participating contract liabilities 1,944 1,944 Senior borrowings 74 74 Other liabilities 264 302 110 456 Total liabilities 264 302 18,798 19,364 The Groups management of currency risk reduces shareholders exposure to exchange rate fluctuations.
The Groups exposure to a 10% exchange movement in the US Dollar and Euro on an IFRS basis, net of hedging activities, is detailed in Table 2.
Table 2 Currency sensitivity analysis Impact on Impact Impact on Impact pre-tax profit on equity pre-tax profit on equity 2009 2009 2008 2008 Currency sensitivity test m m m m 10% Euro appreciation 14 10 1 1 10% US Dollar appreciation 75 54 42 29 Other price risk Other price risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
These changes may be as a result of features of the individual instrument, its issuer, or factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
The Group controls its exposure to geographic price risks by using internal country credit ratings.
These ratings are based on macroeconomic data and key qualitative indicators.
The latter take into account economic, social and political environments.
Table 3 indicates the Groups exposure to different equity markets around the world.
Unit linked equity investments are excluded from the table as the risk is retained by the policyholder.
166 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Table 3 Exposure to worldwide equity markets Non profit Non profit non-unit non-unit Shareholder linked With-profits Total Shareholder linked With-profits Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m m m UK 439 2,029 2,468 697 69 1,968 2,734 North America 26 369 395 61 353 414 Europe 27 676 703 230 529 759 Japan 404 404 70 433 503 Asia Pacific 46 461 507 26 335 361 Other 3 57 60 58 8 66 Listed equities 541 3,996 4,537 1,142 69 3,626 4,837 Unlisted UK equities 85 16 101 9 66 75 Holdings in unit trusts 230 449 679 166 429 595 Total equities 856 4,461 5,317 1,317 69 4,121 5,507 The Group holds non-unit linked property investments totalling 139m 2008: 189m, of which 132m 2008: 182m are located in the UK.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk policy defines the overall framework for the management of credit risk.
Significant areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: The Group holds corporate bonds to back part of its insurance liabilities.
Significant exposures are managed by the application and regular review of concentration limits, with allowance being made in the actuarial valuation of the insurance liabilities for possible defaults.
The Group limits its exposure to insurance risk by ceding part of the risks it assumes to the reinsurance market.
To limit the risk of reinsurer default the Group operates a credit rating policy when arranging cover.
When selecting new reinsurance partners the Group considers only companies which have a minimum credit rating equivalent to Afrom Standard & Poors.
Exposure limits for new and existing reinsurers are determined based on credit ratings and projected exposure.
Aggregate counterparty exposures are regularly monitored both at an individual subsidiary level and on a Groupwide basis.
The credit profile of the Groups assets exposed to credit risk is shown in Table 4.
The credit rating bands are provided by independent rating agencies.
For unrated assets, the Group maintains internal ratings which are used to manage exposure to these counterparties.
Unit linked assets have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to risk.
The carrying amount of non-unit linked assets included in the balance sheet represents the maximum credit exposure.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 167 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Table 4 Exposure to credit risk Unrated BB and bespoke Unrated AAA AA A BBB below CdOs other Total As at 31 december 2009 Notes m m m m m m m m Shareholder Government securities 832 25 5 1 863 Other fixed rate securities 297 185 920 631 74 39 2,146 Variable rate securities 510 108 149 52 14 55 888 Total debt securities 19i 1,639 318 1,074 684 88 94 3,897 Accrued interest 19i 14 3 15 12 2 1 47 Loans and receivables 19ii 16 23 91 130 Derivative assets 20 108 149 257 1 Cash and cash equivalents 27 114 421 780 266 1,581 Financial assets 1,767 866 2,041 696 90 452 5,912 Reinsurers share of contract 21 16 34 147 83 280 liabilities Other assets 26 80 57 80 13 222 452 1,863 957 2,268 709 90 757 6,644 1.
A rated cash and cash equivalents include 246m 2008: 301m holdings in commercial paper which are short term instruments which carry a short term rating of A1 A1 from Standard & Poors.
For risk management purposes, bespoke consolidated CDOs are considered net.
For presentation in the balance sheet the components of the CDOs are shown within investments 956m, cash equivalents 266m and derivative liabilities 118m.
For presentation in the balance sheet the components of the CDOs are shown within variable rate securities 1,266m and derivative liabilities 388m.
Withprofits Government securities 1,991 6 1,997 Other fixed rate securities 3,455 957 2,767 1,123 44 587 8,933 Variable rate securities 158 37 62 3 5 265 Total debt securities 19i 5,604 1,000 2,829 1,126 44 592 11,195 Accrued interest 19i 95 26 77 35 3 15 251 Loans and receivables 19ii 70 25 187 282 Derivative assets 20 7 59 66 Cash and cash equivalents 27 114 91 1,326 3 1,534 Financial assets 5,813 1,194 4,316 1,161 47 797 13,328 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 1 13 14 Other assets 26 163 163 5,813 1,195 4,316 1,161 47 973 13,505 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 169 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Table 5 provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets which have been impaired and the ageing analysis of financial assets which are past due but not impaired.
Unit linked assets have not been included as shareholders are not exposed to the risks from unit linked policies.
Table 5 Ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Neither past assets that due nor 0-3 3-6 6 monthsOver have been Carrying impaired months months 1 year 1 year impaired value As at 31 december 2009 Notes m m m m m m m Shareholder Government securities 863 863 Other fixed rate securities 2,146 2,146 Variable rate securities 883 5 888 Total debt securities 19i 3,892 5 3,897 Accrued interest 19i 47 47 Loans and receivables 19ii 130 130 Derivative assets 20 257 257 Cash equivalents 27 1,372 10 1,382 Financial assets 5,698 10 5 5,713 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 280 280 Other assets 26 429 19 1 3 452 6,407 29 1 8 6,445 Non profit nonunit linked Government securities 578 578 Other fixed rate securities 16,597 16,597 1 Variable rate securities 4,237 4,237 Total debt securities 19i 21,412 21,412 Accrued interest 19i 364 364 Loans and receivables 19ii 1 1 Derivative assets 20 1,269 1,269 Cash equivalents 27 218 218 Financial assets 23,264 23,264 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 1,624 1,624 Other assets 26 17 97 2 1 2 119 24,905 97 2 1 2 25,007 1.
With profits Government securities 2,220 2,220 Other fixed rate securities 9,408 9,408 Variable rate securities 210 210 Total debt securities 19i 11,838 11,838 Accrued interest 19i 247 247 Loans and receivables 19ii 296 296 Derivative assets 20 63 63 Cash equivalents 27 1,271 1,271 Financial assets 13,715 13,715 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 3 3 Other assets 26 72 25 1 3 101 13,790 25 1 3 13,819 170 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Table 5 Ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired continued Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Neither past assets that due nor 0-3 3-6 6 monthsOver have been impaired months months 1 year 1 year impaired Carrying value As at 31 December 2008 Notes m m m m m m m Shareholder Government securities 832 832 1 Other fixed rate securities 2,076 23 2,076 Variable rate securities 915 4 919 Total debt securities 19i 3,823 4 23 3,827 Accrued interest 19i 56 56 Loans and receivables 19ii 98 98 Derivative assets 20 305 305 Cash equivalents 27 1,692 1,692 Financial assets 5,974 4 23 5,978 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 312 312 Other assets 26 453 25 3 3 2 4 486 6,739 25 3 3 6 27 6,776 1.
The 23m of debt securities that have been impaired include Other fixed rate securities in the US, primarily Lehman Brothers 15m and Harrahs 4m.
Non profit nonunit linked Government securities 675 675 Other fixed rate securities 12,891 12,891 1 Variable rate securities 3,637 3,637 Total debt securities 19i 17,203 17,203 Accrued interest 19i 335 335 Loans and receivables 19ii Derivative assets 20 1,994 1,994 Cash equivalents 27 856 856 Financial assets 20,388 20,388 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 1,537 1,537 Other assets 26 22 74 9 9 7 10 121 21,947 74 9 9 7 10 22,046 1.
With profits Government securities 1,997 1,997 Other fixed rate securities 8,933 8,933 Variable rate securities 265 265 Total debt securities 19i 11,195 11,195 Accrued interest 19i 251 251 Loans and receivables 19ii 282 282 Derivative assets 20 66 66 Cash equivalents 27 1,434 1,434 Financial assets 13,228 13,228 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 21 14 14 Other assets 26 138 21 1 1 2 2 163 13,380 21 1 1 2 2 13,405 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 171 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk policy defines the overall framework for the management of liquidity risk.
The Group does not seek exposure to liquidity risk in its own right, but recognises that exposure to liquidity risk can arise as a consequence of the markets in which it operates, the products that it writes and through the execution of investment management strategies.
The liquidity risks to which Legal & Generals insurance businesses may be exposed primarily stem from low probability events that if not adequately planned for may result in unanticipated liquidity requirements.
Such events may include a flu pandemic or natural disaster leading to significantly higher levels of claims than would normally be expected and extreme market conditions impacting the timing of cash flows or the ability to realise investments at a given value within a specified timeframe.
Collateral requirements for derivative futures transactions and other types of financial instrument can also give rise to liquidity risk if sufficient cash or suitable alternative assets are not available to meet collateral calls when due.
At a Group level, liquidity risk may arise in extreme market conditions, should the Group be unable to issue short term debt or commercial paper.
A limited level of contingent liquidity risk is an accepted element of writing contracts of insurance.
However, the Groups insurance businesses seek to maintain sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of the cash outflows that may arise from contingent events.
The level of required liquidity to be maintained by insurance funds is identified using techniques including cash flow analysis for ranges of extreme scenarios and stress tests for shock events.
To ensure an appropriate pool of liquid assets are maintained in line with a prudent estimate of cash outflows, the profile of investment assets held to meet future liabilities from writing insurance business are structured to include an appropriate proportion of cash and other readily realisable assets.
The required profile is formally defined as part of asset benchmarks provided to the investment managers, with regular management information provided by the investment manager on the actual holding relative to the fund benchmarks.
The level of insurance funds held in cash and other readily realisable assets at 31 December 2009 was 2.2bn.
In addition to each insurance fund maintaining a pool of liquid assets, the Groups Treasury function provides formal facilities to the Groups operating subsidiaries to cover contingent liquidity requirements arising from more extreme events and where investment assets may not be readily realisable.
The facility available to each subsidiary is determined through analysis of potential shock events and the potential timing differences that may arise in cash flows.
Specific liquidity risks associated with the Groups core product lines and the risk mitigation techniques are as follows: Annuities: Potential for liquidity risk arises within two specific aspects of the Groups annuity businesses i future pension commitments and ii risk hedging strategies.
i Future pension commitments - Once business has been written, cash outflows for pensions in payment are generally predictable, enabling the Group to structure the liquidity, income and maturity profile of investment assets backing long term liabilities to meet projected cash outflows.
Although variations in longevity can alter the duration of cash outflows over the long term, trends are gradual, providing opportunity to respond with appropriate risk mitigation strategies.
ii Risk hedging strategies - As part of the investment asset management strategy for the Groups UK annuities business, financial instruments are utilised to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, inflation and foreign currency, which may otherwise result in long term liabilities being unmatched.
Financial instruments are also used to mitigate the impact of rating downgrades and defaults within corporate bond portfolios.
The use of such financial instruments can require the posting of collateral with counterparties, and as such an appropriate pool of the asset types specified by counterparties must either be held or readily available.
In this context, the Groups annuities business held a coverage ratio of 3.5 times its required collateral as at 31 December 2009.
Liquidity requirements in excess of the surplus assets would be met by funds held by the Groups Treasury function.
Typically within the overall fund of investment assets held to meet the long term liabilities arising from annuity business, 550m is held in cash and other highly liquid investment types for general liquidity purposes.
Protection: Potential for liquidity risk within the Groups protection businesses may arise should the rate of claims diverge significantly from that anticipated, typically as a consequence of an extreme event.
172 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd The risk of being unable to settle claims as they fall due is actively managed with provision being made and cash pools maintained within investment portfolios for a prudent estimate of the potential claims that may arise from in-force business, taking account of extreme events.
Such provisions are validated using stress tests.
The use of reassurance also acts to mitigate liquidity: the effect of the treaties being to limit the Groups liability for the overall sums assured, with a recovery being made from the reinsurance counterparty for that element of the claim covered by the treaty.
Whilst timing differences can arise between the payment of claims and reimbursement by reinsurance counterparties, the Group seeks to ensure that these are accommodated from cash pools and intra-group facilities.
With-profits: Exposure to liquidity risk may arise if the profile of investment assets held to meet obligations to with-profits policyholders is not aligned with the maturity profile of policies, or the profile does not adequately take account of the rights of policyholders to exercise options or guarantees to specified early surrender terms or minimum rates of return.
Liquidity risk associated with with-profits business is managed through the analysis of the maturity profile of the fund taking account of projected future levels of bonus, policyholders reasonable expectations and projected early withdrawals, and ensuring that an appropriate proportion of the fund is held in cash or other readily realisable assets to meet each tranche of maturities and anticipated early withdrawals as they fall due.
Where policyholders have discretion to require early payment of policy proceeds for example by requesting a surrender value, appropriate contractual safeguards are in place to ensure that the fund and remaining policyholders are not disadvantaged should a material number of policyholders exercise this discretion.
Unit linked business: Investment risks associated with unit linked business, including those associated with liquidity, are generally borne by the holders of units in these funds.
Liquidity risk specifically arises for unit holders in that certain asset classes in which the funds invest such as property in certain market conditions may not be readily realisable or only realisable in a specified timeframe at a diminution of value.
Liquidity risks associated with these asset classes are documented and communicated to customers in point of sale product literature.
Product terms & conditions also highlight that for certain product types that include asset classes that may be illiquid, the Group retains the right to defer the processing of fund withdrawal requests for up to six months, should underlying assets need to be realised to meet payment requests.
To minimise the need to invoke these terms, the funds seek to maintain sufficient holdings in cash assets to meet foreseeable withdrawal activity.
The Groups treasury function manages the Groups banking relationships, capital raising activities, overall cash and liquidity position and the payment of dividends.
The Group seeks to manage its corporate funds and liquidity requirements on a pooled basis and to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash outflows.
In addition, it ensures that, even under adverse conditions, the Group has access to the funds necessary to cover surrenders, withdrawals and maturing liabilities.
The Group has in place a 960m syndicated borrowing facility, expiring in 2012, which provides flexibility in the management of the Groups liquidity.
Other risks Operational risk All business managers are required to confirm regularly the adequacy of controls over operational risks to business unit Risk and Compliance Committees RCCs, the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
Significant control issues which business areas identify are escalated to business unit RCCs, which oversee their resolution.
There are a number of categories under which operational risk and its management across the Group can be considered, and these are outlined in the following paragraphs.
Internal process failure The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of loss from failure of the internal processes with which it transacts its business.
Each subsidiary is responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the controls over its processes and regular reviews are undertaken of their appropriateness and effectiveness.
People The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of loss from inappropriate actions by its staff.
The risk is actively managed by business management and human resource HR functions.
Recruitment is managed centrally by HR functions, and all new recruits undergo a formal induction programme.
All employees have job descriptions setting out their accountabilities and reporting lines, and are appraised annually in accordance with agreed performance management frameworks.
Employees in regulated subsidiaries are provided with appropriate training to enable them to meet the relevant regulatory requirements.
Risks relating to health and safety and other legislation are managed through the provision of relevant training to all staff.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 173 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Outsourcing The Group is potentially exposed to the actions or failure of suppliers contracted to provide services on an outsourced basis.
The required minimum standards of control for outsourced arrangements are set out in the Groups outsourcing and key supplier policy.
Legal Legal risk is the risk of loss from unclear or deficient product documentation: inadequate documentation in support of material contracts such as reassurance treaties: the incorrect interpretation of changes in legislation: employment related disputes and claims: and commercial disputes with suppliers.
The risks are actively managed through the Group Legal Risk framework, which defines minimum standards of control to be applied to minimise the risk of loss.
Compliance Compliance risk within the Group relates to the risk of non-adherence to legislative requirements, regulations and internal policies and procedures.
Responsibility for ensuring adherence to relevant legal and regulatory requirements is vested in individual business managers.
A Group compliance function has oversight of the Groups compliance with conduct of business requirements and standards, providing policy advice and guidance and oversight of compliance arrangements and responsibilities.
Event Event risk relates to the potential for loss arising from significant external events such as terrorism, financial crisis, major changes in fiscal systems or disaster.
Typically, such events have a low likelihood of occurrence, a material impact and can be difficult to prevent.
The Groups risk mitigation focuses on minimising the business disruption and potential financial loss which may ensue from such an event.
This includes maintaining a framework for the management of major incidents, the maintenance and regular testing of detailed business, technical and location recovery plans and the provision of insurance cover for the loss of buildings, contents and information technology systems and for the increased cost of working in the event of business disruption.
Fraud The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of internal fraud, claims-related fraud, and external action by third parties.
The risk of internal fraud is managed through a number of processes including the screening of staff at recruitment, segregation of duties and management oversight.
The activities of Internal Audit also act to counter the risk.
Claims-related fraud is managed by ensuring business processes are designed to fully validate claims and ensure that only bona fide claims are settled.
Anti-fraud techniques are regularly updated to mitigate risks and emerging threats.
The Groups approach to mitigating fraud and other dishonest acts is supported by promoting an open and honest culture in all dealings between employees, managers and those parties with which the Group has contact.
A formal code of ethics sets out the Groups expectations in this respect.
Effective and honest communication is essential if malpractice is to be effectively dealt with.
The Group has defined whistle blowing procedures to enable all employees and those who work with Legal & General to raise matters of concern relating to Legal & General in confidence.
Personnel independent of the business reporting line act as designated whistle blowing contacts and include the heads of Internal Audit and Group Compliance.
The Group also operates a hotline facility to report concerns, either in confidence or anonymously.
Technology The Group places a high degree of reliance on IT in its business activities.
The failure of IT systems could potentially expose the Group to significant business disruption and loss.
To mitigate this risk, standards and methodologies for developing, testing and operating IT systems are maintained.
There is a centralised management for development activity and production systems to ensure consistency and adherence to standards.
Disaster recovery facilities enable IT operations to be conducted at remote locations in the event of the loss of computer facilities at a principal office site.
All records are remotely backed up and computer suites are equipped with alternative power sources.
Contagion risk The potential for contagion risk arises as a consequence of: the use of a common brand across the majority of the Group: the provision of intra-group loans and indemnities.
The Group has defined policies and procedures for managing matters that may have reputational implications, to ensure that Legal & Generals position is correctly understood.
The Group also has defined policies for the provision of guarantees, indemnities and letters of comfort.
174 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Concentration of risk As part of the ongoing risk assessment processes the Group considers the concentration of risk.
The Group seeks to manage concentrations by setting limits around the maximum exposure to loss that it can tolerate from a series of related events.
Limits set include maximum exposures to single lives, geographic locations, financial instruments and reinsurance balances.
Long term insurance risks UK long term insurance products are structured as either participating or non-participating.
The level of shareholders interest in the value of policies and their share of the related profit or loss varies depending upon the contract structure.
Non-participating contracts Non-participating business is written mainly in the non profit part of the Society LTF.
Profits accrue solely to shareholders.
In addition, there is some non-participating business in the with-profits part of the Society LTF where the profits are shared between participating policyholders and shareholders.
Protection business individual and group The Group offers protection products which provide mortality or morbidity benefits.
They may include health, disability, critical illness and accident benefits: these additional benefits are commonly provided as supplements to main life policies but can also be sold separately.
The benefit amounts would usually be specified in the policy terms.
Some sickness benefits cover the policyholders mortgage repayments and are linked to the prevailing mortgage interest rates.
In addition to these benefits, some contracts may guarantee premium rates, provide guaranteed insurability benefits and offer policyholders conversion options.
Life savings business A range of contracts are offered in a variety of different forms to meet customers long term savings objectives.
Policyholders may choose to include a number of protection benefits within their savings contracts.
Typically, any guarantees under the contract would only apply on maturity or earlier death.
On certain older contracts there may be provisions guaranteeing surrender benefits.
Savings contracts may or may not guarantee policyholders an investment return.
Where the return is guaranteed, the Group may be exposed to interest rate risk with respect to the backing assets.
Pensions individual and corporate These are long term savings contracts through which policyholders accumulate pension benefits.
Some older contracts contain a basic guaranteed benefit expressed as an amount of pension payable or a guaranteed annuity option, which exposes the Group to interest rate and longevity risk.
These guarantees become more costly during periods when interest rates are low or when annuitant mortality improves faster than expected.
The ultimate cost will also depend on the take-up rate of any option and the final form of annuity selected by the policyholder.
Other options provided by these contracts include an open market option on maturity, early retirement and late retirement.
The Group would generally have discretion over the terms on which these options are offered.
Annuities Deferred and immediate annuity contracts are offered.
Immediate annuities provide a regular income stream to the policyholder, purchased with a lump sum investment, where the income stream starts immediately after the purchase.
The income stream from a deferred annuity is delayed until a specified future date.
Bulk annuities are also offered, where the Group accepts the assets and liabilities of a company pension scheme or a life fund.
Non-participating deferred annuities written by the Group do not contain guaranteed cash options.
Annuity products provide guaranteed income for a specified time, usually the life of the policyholder, in exchange for a lump sum capital payment.
No surrender value is available under any of these products.
The primary risks to the Group from annuity products are therefore mortality improvements and investment performance.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 175 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within the UK non profit business with benefits linked to changes in the RPI, but with contractual maximum or minimum increases.
In particular, most of these annuities have a provision that the annuity will not reduce if RPI becomes negative.
The total of such annuities in payment at 31 December 2009 was 242m 2008: 226m.
Thus, 1% negative inflation, which was reversed in the following year would result in a guarantee cost of approximately 2m 2008: 2m.
Negative inflation sustained over a longer period would give rise to significantly greater guarantee costs.
Some of these guarantee costs have been partially matched through the purchase of negative inflation hedges and limited price indexation swaps.
Key risk factors a Insurance risk i Mortality For contracts providing death benefits, higher mortality rates would lead to an increase in claims costs.
For annuity contracts, the Group is exposed to the risk that mortality experience is lower than assumed: lower than expected mortality would require payments to be made for longer and increase the cost of benefits provided.
The Group regularly reviews its mortality experience and industry projections of longevity and adjusts the valuation and pricing assumptions accordingly.
The Group is exposed to mortality risk on protection and annuity business.
For protection products, the Group has entered into reinsurance arrangements to mitigate this risk and provide financing.
ii Persistency In the early years of a policy, lapses and surrenders are likely to result in a loss to the Group, as the acquisition costs associated with the contract would not have been recovered from product margins.
Some contracts include surrender deductions to mitigate this risk.
In later periods, once the acquisition costs have been recouped, the effect of lapses and surrenders depends upon the relationship between the exit benefit, if any, and the liability for that contract.
Exit benefits are not generally guaranteed and the Group has some discretion in determining the amount of the payment.
As a result, the effect on profit at later duration is expected to be broadly neutral.
Following the adoption of PS06 14 in 2006 the persistency assumption for non-participating protection business allows for the expected pattern of persistency, adjusted to incorporate a margin for adverse deviation.
There is no persistency risk exposure for annuities in payment, and these contracts do not provide a lapse or surrender option.
iii Morbidity rates The cost of health related claims depends on both the incidence of policyholders becoming ill and the duration over which they remain ill. Higher than expected incidence or duration would increase costs over the level currently assumed in the calculation of liabilities.
iv Expense variances Higher expenses and or expense inflation will tend to increase the amount of the reserves required.
The Group is exposed to the risk that its liabilities are not sufficient to cover future expenses.
v Geographic concentrations of risk Insurance risk may be concentrated in geographic regions, altering the risk profile of the Group.
The most significant exposure of this type arises for the group protection business, where a single event could result in a large number of related claims.
To reduce the overall exposure, current contracts include an event limit which caps the total liability.
Additionally, excess of loss reinsurance arrangements further mitigate the exposure.
vi Epidemics The spread of an epidemic could cause large aggregate claims across the Groups portfolio.
Quota share reinsurance contracts are used to manage this risk.
The management of associated counterparty risks from the use of reinsurance is set out on page 166.
Depending on the nature of an epidemic, mortality experience may lead to a reduction in the cost of claims for annuity business.
vii Accumulation of risks There is limited potential for single incidents to give rise to a large number of claims across the different contract types written by the Group.
In particular, there is little significant overlap between the long term and short term insurance business written by the Group.
However, there are potentially material correlations of insurance risk with other types of risk exposure.
These correlations are difficult to estimate though they would tend to be more acute as the underlying risk scenarios became more extreme.
An example of the accumulation of risk is the correlation between reinsurer credit risk with mortality and morbidity exposures.
176 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd b Market risk Investment of the assets backing the Group liabilities reflects the nature of the liabilities being supported.
For non-participating business, the strategy is to invest in fixed income securities of appropriate maturity dates.
The risk of default on fixed interest securities is managed through diversified portfolios with exposure limits for individual economies, sectors and counterparties.
Interest rate risk is reduced by managing the duration and maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to the estimated cash flows of the liabilities it supports.
A number of derivatives are held to enable the closer matching of assets and liabilities and to mitigate further exposure to interest rate movements, in particular, to limit the exposure to any options and guarantees in contracts.
In addition, the exposure to these risks is allowed for in the actuarial valuation of liabilities under these contracts.
Participating contracts Participating contracts are supported by the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
They offer policyholders the possibility of the payment of benefits in addition to those guaranteed by the contract.
The amount and timing of the additional benefits usually called bonuses are contractually at the discretion of the Group.
Discretionary increases to benefits on participating contracts are allowed in one or both of annual and final bonus form.
These bonuses are determined in accordance with the principles outlined in the Groups PPFM for the management of the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The principles include: The with-profits part of the Society LTF will be managed with the objective of ensuring that its assets are sufficient to meet its liabilities without the need for additional capital.
With-profits policies have no expectation of any distribution from the with-profits part of the Society LTFs inherited estate.
The inherited estate is the excess of assets held within the Society LTF over and above the amount required to meet liabilities, including those which arise from the regulatory duty to treat customers fairly in settling discretionary benefits.
Bonus rates will be smoothed so that some of the short term fluctuations in the value of the investments of the with-profits part of the Society LTF and the business results achieved in the with-profits part of the UK LTF are not immediately reflected in payments under with-profits policies.
At 30 June 2005 an assessment was made of the expected cost of guarantees and options to be paid in the future, and funds with the same value to meet these costs were allocated from the capital in the with-profits sub-fund.
The value of the funds is regularly assessed and is reduced by the cost of guarantees and options paid since 1 July 2005.
At each assessment point, if the value of the funds is lower than the expected cost of guarantees and options, it is possible to make deductions from asset shares to cover the difference.
It is intended to limit deductions to no more than 0.75% each year, up to a maximum of 5% per policy.
Following the movement in the expected cost and the value of the associated funds up to 31 December 2009, and in accordance with the Groups PPFM, a refund of 0.4% was made to the asset shares.
This followed a deduction of 0.75% made in respect of the year to 31 December 2008.
In the technical provisions, allowance has also been made for future deductions in respect of the expected costs of meeting future guarantees and options not covered by the current year deduction.
For policyholders who decide to surrender a charge will generally be made in respect of the expected cost of guarantees and options not covered by the charge already taken.
Some older participating contracts include a guaranteed minimum rate of roll up of the policyholders fund up to the date of retirement or maturity.
The nature of the participating contracts written in the with-profits part of the Society LTF is that more emphasis can be placed on investing to maximise future investment returns.
This results in a broader range of investments being held within the fund.
With-profits bonds These contracts provide an investment return to the policyholder which is determined by the attribution of regular and final bonuses over the duration of the contract.
In addition, the contracts provide a death benefit, typically of 101% of the value of the units allocated to the policyholder.
Pension contracts The Group has sold pension contracts containing guaranteed annuity options which expose the Group to both interest rate and longevity risk.
The market consistent value of these guarantees carried in the balance sheet is 31m 2008: 48m.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 177 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Deferred annuity contracts The Group has written some deferred annuity contracts which guaranteed minimum pensions.
These options expose the Group to interest rate and longevity risk as the cost would be expected to increase with decreasing interest rates and improved longevity.
The market consistent value of these guarantees carried in the balance sheet is 111m 2008: 133m.
Endowment contracts These contracts provide a lump sum on maturity determined by the addition of annual and final bonuses over the duration of the contract.
In addition, the contracts provide a minimum sum assured death benefit.
Key risk factors The insurance and market risk exposures for participating business are largely the same as those discussed for non-participating contracts.
The main differences in the operation of these contracts are discussed below.
a Insurance risk - Persistency At early durations, the nature of the persistency risks on with-profits business is largely the same as for non-participating business and is influenced mainly by the ability to recover acquisition costs from product margins.
At later durations, there is less scope for withdrawal to result in a loss for the Group as these contracts typically provide explicit allowances for market conditions.
Allowance for future withdrawals is made in the assessment of participating contract liabilities.
The Group is generally exposed to the risk that future withdrawals are lower than assumed, resulting in higher future guarantee costs.
b Market risk The financial risk exposure for participating contracts is different from that for non-participating business.
Greater emphasis is placed on investing to maximise future investment returns rather than matching assets to liabilities.
This results in holding significant equity and property investments.
Lower investment returns increase the costs associated with maturity and investment guarantees provided on these contracts.
These risks are managed by maintaining capital sufficient to cover the consequences of mismatch under a number of adverse scenarios.
In addition, different investment strategies are followed for assets backing policyholder asset shares and assets backing other participating liabilities and surplus.
The former include significant equity and property holdings, whilst the latter are invested largely in fixed interest securities.
The assets held are managed so as to provide a partial hedge to movements in fixed interest yields and equity markets.
The methodology used to calculate the liabilities for participating contracts makes allowance for the possibility of adverse changes in investment markets on a basis consistent with the market cost of hedging the guarantees provided.
The methodology also makes allowance for the cost of future discretionary benefits, guarantees and options.
The value of future discretionary benefits depends on the return achieved on assets backing these contracts.
The asset mix varies with investment conditions reflecting the Groups investment policy, which aims to optimise returns to policyholders over time whilst limiting capital requirements for this business.
178 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd The distribution of surplus to shareholders depends upon the bonuses declared for the period.
Typically, bonus rates are set having regard to investment returns, although the Group has some discretion setting rates and would normally smooth bonuses over time.
The volatility of investment returns could impact the funds capital position and its ability to pay bonuses.
If future investment conditions were less favourable than anticipated, the lower bonus levels resulting would also reduce future distributions to shareholders.
However, business which is written in the with-profits part of the Society LTF is managed to be self-supporting.
The unallocated divisible surplus in the fund would normally be expected to absorb the impact of these investment risks.
Only in extreme scenarios, where shareholders were required to provide capital support to the with-profits part of the Society LTF, would these risks affect equity.
As part of the 2007 Society LTF restructure, the 1996 Sub-fund 321m was merged into the Shareholder Retained Capital SRC.
As a result, Societys Board of Directors undertook to initially maintain 500m of assets within Society to support the with-profits business.
The amount of the commitment will reduce to 400m in 2010 and then gradually reduce to zero over a period not exceeding eight years.
The Groups approach to setting bonus rates is designed to treat customers fairly.
The approach is set out in the Societys PPFM for the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
In addition, bonus declarations are also affected by FSA regulations relating to Treating Customers Fairly TCF, which limit the discretion available when setting bonus rates.
The Groups approach to setting bonuses and meeting the FSAs TCF regulations may increase the Groups exposure to market risk should the ability to cut bonuses, during periods when investment returns are poor, be reduced.
Unit linked contracts The Groups primary exposure to financial risk from these contracts is the risk of volatility in asset management fees due to the impact of interest rate and market price movements on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, on which investment management fees are based.
The Group is also exposed to the risk of an expense overrun should the market depress the level of charges which could be imposed, although for some contracts the Group has discretion over the level of management charges levied.
Sensitivity analysis Table 6 shows the impact on pre-tax profit and equity, net of reinsurance, under each sensitivity scenario for the non-participating business written in the non profit part of the UK LTF.
Table 6 UK long term business IFRS sensitivity analysis Impact on pre-tax profit Impact on net of equity net of reinsurance reinsurance 2009 2009 m m Sensitivity test 1% increase in interest rates 92 66 1% decrease in interest rates 71 51 Credit spread widens by 100bps with no change in expected defaults 141 101 1% increase in inflation 3 2 Default of largest reinsurer 589 424 5% decrease in annuitant mortality 281 202 In calculating the alternative values, all other assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice, items of the Groups experience may be correlated.
The Group seeks to actively manage its asset and liability position.
A change in market conditions may lead to changes in the asset allocation or charging structure which may have a more, or less, significant impact on the value of the liabilities.
The analysis also ignores any second order effects of the assumption change, including the potential impact on the Group asset and liability position and any second order tax effects.
These stresses use the assets that back the liabilities.
Any excess assets have not been stressed in these calculations.
The sensitivity of the profit to changes in assumptions may not be linear.
They should not be extrapolated to changes of a much larger order.
The change in interest rate test assumes a 100bps change in the gross redemption yield on fixed interest securities together with a 100bps change in the real yields on variable securities.
Valuation interest rates are assumed to move in line with market yields adjusted to allow for the impact of FSA regulations.
In the sensitivity for credit spreads corporate bond yields have increased by 100bps, gilt and approved security yields unchanged, and there has been no adjustment to the default assumptions.
The inflation stress adopted is a 1% pa increase in inflation resulting in a 1% pa reduction in real yield and no change to the nominal yield.
In addition the expense inflation rate has increased by 1% pa.
The reinsurer stress shown is equal to the technical provisions ceded to that insurer.
The annuitant mortality stress is a 5% reduction in the mortality rates for immediate and deferred annuitants with no change to the mortality improvement rates so, for example, a rate that was 80% of a standard table would become 76% of that standard table.
Details of IGD sensitivity analysis can be found in Table 2 of Note 46.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 179 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd International Legal & General America LGA The principal products written by LGA are individual term assurance, universal life insurance and smaller blocks of deferred and immediate annuities.
The individual term assurances provide death benefits over the medium to long term.
The contracts have level premiums for an initial period with premiums increasing annually thereafter.
During the initial period, there is generally an option to convert the contract to a universal life contract.
After the initial period, the premium rates are not guaranteed, but cannot exceed the age related guaranteed premium.
Reinsurance is used to reduce the insurance risk on this portfolio and manage liquidity risks, through the reinsurance commission received under quota share arrangements.
Reinsurance and securitisation are used to provide regulatory solvency relief including relief from regulation Triple X.
These practices led to the establishment of reinsurance assets on the Groups balance sheet.
The universal life insurance and deferred annuities provide a savings component.
In addition, the universal life contract provides substantial death benefits over the medium to long term.
The savings element has a guaranteed minimum growth rate.
LGA has exposure to loss in the event that interest rates decrease and it is unable to earn enough on the underlying assets to cover the guaranteed rate.
LGA is also exposed to loss should interest rates increase, as the underlying market value of assets will generally fall without a change in the surrender value.
The reserves for universal life and deferred annuities totalled $723m and $221m respectively at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: $753m and $230m respectively.
The guaranteed interest rates associated with those reserves ranged from 0.0% to 5.5%, with the majority of the policies having a 4% guaranteed rate 2008: 4%.
The deferred annuity contracts also contain a provision that, at maturity, a policyholder may move the account value into an immediate annuity, at rates which are either those currently in effect, or rates guaranteed in the contract.
The other annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK.
Legal & General Netherlands LGN LGN principally writes non-participating individual unit linked savings, individual term assurance and annuity business.
The unit linked savings business generally includes an element of exposure to mortality risk.
Reinsurance is used to reduce the share of insurance risk.
The annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK: however, the majority of annuity business has a term of three years or less.
Legal & General France LGF LGF writes a range of long term insurance and investment business through its subsidiaries.
The principal products written are group protection, annuities, savings and open ended investment vehicles.
The group protection business consists of group term assurance, renewable on an annual basis, sickness and disability, and medical expenses assurance.
The group sickness and disability and medical expenses policies integrate with social security benefits providing a level of top-up to those benefits.
Reinsurance is used to manage exposure to large individual and group claims.
The annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK.
Savings products include contracts that provide minimum guaranteed rates of return.
The guarantee is aligned with current and projected rates of return from government securities.
Investment risks associated with open ended investment vehicles are borne by unit holders of these funds.
180 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd 48 RISK MANAGEMENT ANd CONTROL CONTINUEd Sensitivity analysis Table 7 below shows the effect of alternative assumptions on the long term embedded value, prepared in accordance with the guidance issued by the European Insurance CFO Forum in October 2005.
These sensitivities correspond to those contained within the Supplementary Financial Statements on page 201 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
Table 7 Effect on embedded value 1% higher equity 1% lower risk 1% higher risk 1% lower 1% higher property As published discount rate discount rate interest rate interest rate yields As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m m UK 6,267 376 328 28 51 106 International 1,446 107 97 11 25 3 7,713 483 425 39 76 109 10% lower 5% lower 5% lower equity 10% lower 10% lower mortality mortality property maintenance lapse UK other As published values expenses rates annuities business As at 31 december 2009 m m m m m m UK 6,267 149 77 75 157 59 International 1,446 6 13 54 n a 89 7,713 155 90 129 157 148 1% higher equity 1% lower risk 1% higher risk 1% lower 1% higher property As published discount rate discount rate interest rate interest rate yields As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m UK 6,146 384 336 73 5 110 International 1,463 126 109 17 23 3 7,609 510 445 56 18 113 10% lower 5% lower 5% lower equity 10% lower 10% lower mortality mortality property maintenance lapse UK other As published values expenses rates annuities businesses As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m UK 6,146 248 68 66 111 40 International 1,463 6 12 59 n a 95 7,609 254 80 125 111 135 Opposite sensitivities are broadly symmetrical.
The Group also uses embedded value EV financial information in addition to IFRS to manage and monitor performance, and to manage interdependences between different aspects of financial risks, for example for market risk.
This provides information about the value which is being created on the Groups long term insurance contracts.
EV information is calculated for the Groups life and pensions business covered business.
All other businesses are accounted for on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
The EV methodology requires assets of an insurance company, as reported in the primary financial statements, to be attributed between those supporting the covered business and the remainder.
The method accounts for assets in the covered business on an EV basis and the remainder of the Groups assets on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
Sensitivities have been presented for covered business only.
In this context the non-covered business is considered not to be material.
Whilst EV sensitivities do not directly reflect the short term movements under IFRS, they more closely reflect the long term economic out turn.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 181 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Cash flow projections are determined using realistic assumptions for each component of cash flow and for each policy group.
Future economic and investment return assumptions are based on conditions at the end of the financial year.
Future investment returns are projected by one of two methods.
The first method is based on an assumed investment return attributed to assets at their market value.
The second, which is used in the US, where the investments of that subsidiary are substantially all fixed interest, projects the cash flows from the current portfolio of assets and assumes an investment return on reinvestment of surplus cash flows.
The assumed discount and inflation rates are consistent with the investment return assumptions.
The main assumptions are provided on page 202 in the Supplementary Financial Statements.
UK general insurance The principal products are: Household.
These contracts provide cover in respect of policyholders homes, investment properties, contents, personal belongings and incidental liabilities which they may incur as a property owner, occupier and individual.
Exposure is normally limited to the rebuilding cost of the home, the replacement cost of belongings and a policy limit in respect of liability claims.
LGI uses reinsurance to manage the exposure to an accumulation of claims arising from any one incident, usually severe weather.
The catastrophe cover runs from 1 July to 30 June and reinsures LGI for losses between 30m and 250m 2008 2009: 30m and 270m for a single weather event.
Accident, sickness and unemployment ASU.
These contracts provide cover in respect of continuing payment liabilities incurred by customers when they are unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
They protect predominantly mortgage payments.
Exposure is limited to the monthly payment level selected by the customer sufficient to cover the payment and associated costs, up to the duration limit specified in the policy, usually 12 months.
These contracts provide cover in respect of customers private cars and their liability to third parties in respect of damage to property and injury.
Exposure is normally limited to the replacement value of the vehicle, and a policy limit in respect of third party property damage.
Exposure to third party bodily injury is unlimited in accordance with statutory requirements.
The motor book continues in run-off, the final policy having expired in August 2007, but this is expected to take several years.
These contracts are primarily private medical insurance, which compensate customers for the costs of eligible medical consultations, diagnostic tests, in-patient, day care and outpatient treatment up to the limits specified in the policy.
They are mainly exposed to the underlying incidence of morbidity, medical claims inflation and advances in medical treatments.
The healthcare business is in run-off with the final policies having expired in July 2008.
By 2009, the run-off was substantially complete and the residual claims were minimal.
These contracts primarily in run-off protect a mortgage lender should an insured property be repossessed and subsequently sold at a loss.
Since 1993, the contract has included a maximum period of cover of 10 years, and a cap on the maximum claim.
For business accepted prior to 1993, cover is unlimited and lasts until the insured property is remortgaged or redeemed.
182 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd Key risk factors Weather events Significant weather events such as windstorms, and coastal and river floods can lead to significant claims.
Concentration The insurance of properties which are concentrated in high risk areas, or an above average market share in a particular region, can give rise to a concentration of insurance risk.
This risk is managed by ensuring that the risk acceptance policy, terms and premiums both reflect the expected claim cost associated with the location and avoid adverse selection.
Additionally, exposure and competitor activity is monitored by location to ensure that there is a geographic spread of business.
Catastrophe reinsurance cover reduces the Groups exposure to concentrations of risk.
The catastrophe reinsurance is designed to protect against a modelled windstorm and coastal flood event with a return probability of 1 in 200 years.
Subsidence The incidence of subsidence can have a significant impact on the level of claims on household policies.
The Groups underwriting and reinsurance strategy mitigates the exposure to concentrations of risk arising from geographic location or adverse selection.
Economic downturn Periods of rapid and prolonged national economic downturn can create significant variation in the frequency and severity of ASU claims experience.
This risk is managed through the monitoring of economic trends and the underwriting of policies to ensure that the customer completing a mortgage loan transaction achieves credit scoring approval.
Unlimited motor claims A single motor policy can result in major multiple liability claims in extreme scenarios.
To mitigate this risk, accident excess of loss reinsurance is in place for claims in excess of 1m 2008: 1m.
Sensitivity analysis Table 8 shows material sensitivities for the General insurance business on pre-tax profit and equity, net of reinsurance.
Table 8 General insurance sensitivity analysis Impact Impact Impact Impact on pre-tax on equity on pre-tax on equity profit net of net of profit net of net of reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Sensitivity test Single storm event with 1 in 200 year probability 50 36 50 36 Subsidence event worst claim ratio in last 30 years 41 29 46 33 Economic downturn 39 28 39 28 5% decrease in overall claims ratio 8 6 10 7 5% surplus over claims liabilities 5 4 6 4 For any single event with claims in excess of 30m but less than 250m, the ultimate cost to the Group would be 30m.
The impact of a 1 in 500 year modelled windstorm and coastal flood event would exceed the catastrophe cover by approximately 120m.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 183 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUEd This page has intentionally been left blank.
