OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 265 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 ABBREVIATIONS ABS Asset-Backed Securities LDC Lloyds Development Capital ADRs American Depositary Receipts LEP Loss Emergence Period AGM Annual General Meeting LGB Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual AMA Advanced Measurement Approach LGD Loss Given Default BHF British Heart Foundation LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate BIS Department for Business Innovation and Skills LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan BSU Business Support Unit OEICs Open Ended Investment Companies CAGR Compared Annual Growth Rate OFAC Of ce of Foreign Assets Control CRR Capital Resources Requirement OFT Of ce of Fair Trading CVA Credit Valuation Adjustment PFI Private Finance Initiative ECNs Enhanced Capital Notes PPP Public Private Partnerships EEV European Embedded Value PVNBP Present Value of New Business Premiums EPS Earnings Per Share RMBS Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities EU European Union SAYE Save-As-You-Earn FSA Financial Services Authority SLS Special Liquidity Scheme FTE Full Time Equivalent TSR Total Shareholder Return GAPS Government Asset Protection Scheme UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland GDP Gross Domestic Product UKFI UK Financial Investment HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs US United States of America IAS International Accounting Standard VaR Value-at-Risk IASB International Accounting Standards Board VAT Value Added Tax ICG Individual Capital Guidance IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IPEV International Private Equity and Venture Capital 266 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ACCOUNTING DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE Accounting policies 134Consolidated 182 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 144 Parent company 256 Future accounting developments 247Valuation 226 ACQUISITION DEPOSITS Chairmans statement 6 Customer deposits 181 Group chief executives review 10 Deposits from banks 181 Group chief executives Q&A 14Valuation 225 Post balance sheet events 248 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policy 137 Consolidated 248 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 167 Parent company 260Valuation 227 AUDITORS DIRECTORS Report on the consolidated financial statements 126 Attendance at board and committee meetings 103 Report on the parent company financial statements 249Biographies 96 Fees 158 Directors report 98 Emoluments 118 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Interests 120 Accounting policies 136, 139 Remuneration policy 109 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 145 Service agreements 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 175 Valuation 225 DIVIDENDS Ordinary dividends 208 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated 129, 130 EARNINGS PER SHARE 165 Parent company 250 EMPLOYEES CAPITAL ADEQUACY Diversity and inclusion 51 Capital ratios 87 Our people 50 CASH FLOW STATEMENT FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Consolidated 132 Credit risk 64, 231, 259 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 243 Currency risk 230, 259 Parent company 252 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 224, 259 Insurance risk 78 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 6 Interest rate risk 229, 259 Liquidity and funding risk 81, 241, 259 CHANGE OF NAME Market risk 76 Basis of preparation 133 Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities 221, 258 CHARITABLE DONATIONS 99 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 95 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS 218 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS inside front cover CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 52 GAIN ON ACQUISITION Critical accounting estimates and judgements 146 CREDIT MARKET EXPOSURES 238 Gain on acquisition of HBOS 19 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 160 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 267 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GOING CONCERN INSURANCE BUSINESSES Basis of preparation 133 Accounting policy 141 Directors report 104 Basis of determining regulatory capital 89 Capital sensitivities 94 GOODWILL Capital statement 90 Accounting policy 134 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 147 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 147 Financial information calculated on a realistic basis 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 176 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 183 GOVERNANCE Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 189 Compliance with the Combined Code 100 Life insurance sensitivity analysis 189 Risk management 56 Options and guarantees 94 The board and its committees 100 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 190 Value of in-force business 177 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A 14 LOANS AND ADVANCES GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 10 Loans and advances to banks 169 Loans and advances to customers 170 HELD AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Valuation 224 Accounting policy 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 166, 182 MARKETPLACE TRENDS 16 Valuation 225 NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 153 IMPAIRMENT Accounting policy 138 NET INTEREST INCOME 152 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 159 NET TRADING INCOME 153 INCOME STATEMENT OPERATING EXPENSES 157 Consolidated 128 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 155 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Analysis of shareholders 261 PENSIONS Shareholder enquiries 261 Accounting policy 140 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 146 INSURANCE PREMIUM INCOME 154 Directors pensions 113, 116, 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 190 INSURANCE CLAIMS 156 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 248, 260 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Accounting policy 135 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 256 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 179 PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION inside front cover INVESTMENT PROPERTY Accounting policy 139 PROVISIONS Notes to the consolidated financial statements 176 Accounting policy 144 Notes to the group accounts 196 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 5 268 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT continued RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 215, 256 TAXATION Accounting policy 141 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Critical accounting estimates and judgements 146 Business risk 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 162, 194 Credit risk 64 Financial soundness 81 VALUE AT RISK VAR 76 Insurance risk 78 VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS Market risk 76 Accounting policy 142 Principal risks 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 177 Operational risk 79 Risk drivers 63 VOLATILITY Risk management 56 Insurance 48 Policyholder interests 48 RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 88 Summary of Group results 19 SECURITISATIONS AND COVERED BONDS 171 SEGMENTAL REPORTING Central items 47 Combined businesses segmental analysis 22 Group Operations 46 Insurance 38 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 148 Retail 24 Wealth and International 34 Wholesale 28 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Accounting policy 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 208 SHARE CAPITAL Share capital 203 Post balance sheet events 248 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Consolidated 131 Parent company 251 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES Consolidated 198 Parent company 254 Valuation 225 SUMMARY OF GROUP RESULTS 18 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Accounting policy 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 180 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Executive producer Lora Starling Front cover photography Carol Walker www.
com Directors portraits Clive Arrowsmith & Marcus Ginns Other photography Corbis Printed in the UK by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, using soya based inks and water based sealants: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 140001 Environmental Management systems standards and both are Forest Stewardship Council certi ed.
When you have nished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
HEAD OFFICE 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 REGISTERED OFFICE The Mound Edinburgh EH1 1YZ Registered in Scotland no 95000 INTERNET www.
com REGISTRAR Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2990 Textphone 0871 384 2255 Overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 www.
com ocial partner of the Olympic and Paralympic Games ANNUAL REVIEW 2009 CREATING THE UKS BEST FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDER GROUP PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2 Statutory profit before tax of 1,042 million 2008: 760 million RESULTS SUMMARY COMBINED BUSINESSES includes an 11,173 million acquisition-related negative goodwill credit.
2009 2008 m m Combined businesses loss of 6,300 million for the year 2008: 6,713 million loss.
Net interest income 12,726 14,903 Other income 11,875 6,933 Resilient core businesses performance despite year-on-year margin pressure and weak economy.
35 billion of gross new mortgage Total income 24,601 21,836 lending, approximately 100,000 new commercial accounts.
Insurance claims 637 481 Total income, net of insurance claims, increased by 12 per cent to Total income, net of insurance claims 23,964 21,355 23,964 million due to the absence of 3.4 billion of mark-to-market losses on the Groups treasury asset portfolio and gains of 1.5 billion Operating expenses 11,609 12,236 on capital transactions, which were partly offset by significant Trading surplus 12,355 9,119 year-on-year margin pressures.
Impairment 23,988 14,880 Banking net interest margin improved to 1.83 per cent in the second Share of results of joint ventures half of the year, compared to 1.72 per cent in the first half.
and associates 767 952 Integration ahead of schedule and cost synergies target increased Loss before tax and fair value unwind 12,400 6,713 to 2 billion run-rate by the end of 2011.
Total cost synergies of 534 million have been realised during the year.
Annualised run-rate Fair value unwind 6,100 savings totalled 766 million at the year end.
Loss before tax combined businesses 6,300 6,713 Total impairments significantly higher at 23,988 million for 2009.
RECONCILIATION OF COMBINED BUSINESSES LOSS Second half impairments were 21 per cent lower than in the first BEFORE TAX TO STATUTORY PROFIT BEFORE TAX half of 2009.
We expect to see a similar pace of half-yearly improvement throughout 2010, with further substantial reductions in Loss before tax combined businesses 6,300 6,713 2011 and beyond.
Integration costs 1,096 Robust capital position and strengthened funding profile.
Core tier Volatility 478 2,349 one capital at 8.1 per cent following the successful capital raising in GAPS fee 2,500 December 2009.
Wholesale funding maturing in more than one year increased from 44 per cent to 50 per cent.
Negative goodwill credit 11,173 Amortisation of purchased intangibles and Outlook: economy showing signs of stabilisation, with weak upturn goodwill impairment 993 258 expected in 2010.
Significant improvement in the performance of our continuing businesses expected in 2010.
Pre-acquisition results of HBOS plc 280 10,825 Medium-term goals reflect economic outlook and significant Insurance grossing adjustment 10 opportunity to leverage relationship-led model across enlarged Results of BankWest and St. Andrews 90 business base.
High single-digit income growth from our continuing Loss on disposal of businesses 845 businesses targeted within two years.
Continued reduction in Pro t before tax statutory 1,042 760 cost:income ratio.
2 COMBINED BUSINESSES PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION STATUTORY PROFIT BEFORE TAX m 2008 760 In order to provide more meaningful and relevant comparatives, the results of the Group and divisions are presented on a combined businesses basis.
The 2009 1,042 key principles adopted in the preparation of the combined businesses basis of reporting are described below.
1 INCOME AND COST GROWTH % In order to reflect the impact of the acquisition, the following adjustments have been made: Income 12 the 2008 results include the results of HBOS as if it had been acquired on 5 Costs 1 January 2008: the 2009 results assume HBOS had been owned throughout the year: the unwind of acquisition-related fair value adjustments is shown as one line in EARNINGS PER SHARE pence the 2009 combined businesses income statement and has not been back-dated 2008 6.7 to 2008: and 2009 7.5 the gain on acquisition of HBOS and amortisation of purchased intangible assets have been excluded.
In order to better present the underlying business performance the following 1 PROFIT LOSS BEFORE TAX m items, not related to the acquisition, have also been excluded: 6,713 2008 the results of BankWest and St. Andrews which were sold in December 2008 and 2009 6,300 the related loss on disposal: insurance and policyholder interests volatility: integration costs: CORE TIER 1 CAPITAL RATIO % goodwill impairment: and 2008 5.6 Government Asset Protection Scheme GAPS fee.
2009 8.1 1 COST:INCOME RATIO % 2008 57 View our Annual Report online a full version of our Annual Report 2009 48 and Accounts and information relating to Lloyds Banking Group is 1 Combined businesses basis.
com 1 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 GROUP PROFILE OUR GROUP Lloyds Banking Group is a leading UK based financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services, primarily in the UK, to personal and corporate customers.
Lloyds Banking Group was formed in January 2009 following the acquisition of HBOS and our main business activities are retail, commercial and corporate banking, general insurance, and life, pensions and investment provision.
The new Group also operates an international banking business with a global footprint in over 30 countries.
The Group is the UK's largest retail bank and has a large and diversified customer base.
Services are offered through a number of well recognised brands including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, Scottish Widows, Clerical Medical and Cheltenham & Gloucester, and via a unique distribution capability comprising the largest branch network in the UK and intermediary channels.
Lloyds Banking Group is quoted on both the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange and is one of the largest companies within the FTSE 100.
OUR VISION AND STRATEGY Our vision is to be recognised as the best financial services company in the UK by shareholders, customers and colleagues.
Our corporate strategy is based on: Developing strong customer franchises that are based on deep customer relationships.
All our businesses are focused on extending the reach and depth of our customer relationships, whilst enhancing product capabilities to build competitive advantage.
In delivering a high performance organisation the Group is focused on improving our cost efficiency and utilising our capital more effectively whilst maintaining a prudent approach to risk.
Managing our most valuable resource, our people.
Executing strategy effectively will only be possible if we ensure deliverables are effectively aligned with our corporate strategy and we manage our most valuable resource, our people, well.
The effective integration of the two businesses will be a significant challenge over the next few years, but comprehensive plans are in place and excellent progress is already being made.
The Group believes that the successful execution of its strategy to focus on core markets, customer and cost leadership, capital efficiency and a prudent risk appetite will enable the Group to achieve its vision to be recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
OUR DIVISIONS Since the acquisition of HBOS in January 2009 there have been four primary operating divisions: Retail, Wholesale, Wealth and International, and Insurance.
The key product markets in which they participate and relative contribution to the Group's total income are presented below and a more detailed analysis of their strategy, business and performance is outlined over the next few pages.
42% 39% 10% 9% of total Group of total Group of total Group of total Group 1 1 1 1 income income income income RETAIL WHOLESALE WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE Secured lending mortgages Corporate Markets Wealth management Life assurance, pensions and investments Unsecured lending credit cards, Treasury and Trading Asset management General Insurance loans and overdrafts Asset Finance International Banking Internet and telephone banking Current accounts Savings accounts 1 Excludes central group items.
2 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Winfried Bischoff 2009 HAS BEEN A YEAR OF CHANGE BUT ALSO ONE OF ACHIEVEMENT AS THE BUSINESS HAS POSITIONED ITSELF TO BENEFIT FROM WHAT WE EXPECT TO BE STRONG EARNINGS MOMENTUM OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS OUR YEAR IN BRIEF CREATION OF LLOYDS BANKING GROUP Lloyds Banking Group was created in January 2009 and is now the UKs largest retail bank.
GOVERNMENT ASSET PROTECTION SCHEME In March, in what was clearly a very difficult external market, the Group announced its intention to participate in the Government Asset Protection Scheme.
At the time the Scheme provided an opportunity to reduce the risk profile of the balance sheet and significantly strengthen the Groups capital position.
A more economically favourable alternative was later pursued.
PLACING AND COMPENSATORY OPEN OFFER A placing and compensatory open offer was successfully completed in June.
The proceeds allowed the Group to repurchase the 4 billion of preference shares held by HM Treasury.
EU STATE AID In November the Groups restructuring plan was agreed by the European Commission.
The board approved the restructuring plan and is confident that this will not have a materially negative impact on the Group.
CAPITAL RAISING In December we successfully undertook the largest ever capital raising in Europe comprising a 9 billion debt exchange and a 13.5 billion rights issue.
This provided a market-based alternative to our intended participation in the Government Asset Protection Scheme and provided superior economic value to our shareholders.
RESILIENT CORE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Whilst the capital raising activities took much of the external attention during 2009, the Group has continued to deliver a resilient core business performance in a difficult economic environment.
The integration of the two businesses is progressing ahead of schedule and the Group is now very well positioned for future earnings growth.
3 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 My first annual statement to you as chairman comes at the end of Whilst the capital raising activities took much of the external what has been a momentous and, at times, extraordinary year for attention during 2009, the Group delivered a resilient core Lloyds Banking Group.
It has been a year of change but also one business performance and the integration of the two businesses of achievement as the business has positioned itself to benefit from is progressing ahead of schedule.
Further detail on our performance what we expect is going to be good earnings momentum over is outlined in the group chief executives review.
The changing economic climate both in the UK and overseas over the past 12 months has presented the banking PEOPLE industry with many difficult challenges.
However, as we move into The past year has been difficult for everyone and we are mindful 2010, we believe that we are well positioned to benefit from the of the uncertainty our colleagues have faced.
encouraging signs of economic recovery, albeit we believe the UK economy will grow at below trend levels over the next few years.
Since joining the Group in September, I have had the pleasure of meeting many of our colleagues and it is clear we have a strong Our commitment to our customers continues to be at the heart of team who have shown an impressive degree of professionalism, our business and our relationship with them is critical to our success.
enthusiasm, commitment and sheer hard work in these challenging Only by focusing on the needs of our customers and offering circumstances.
Not only have they successfully undertaken the products and services that address those needs can we expect normal day job of serving our customers and realising the potential to be successful and deliver benefit to all our stakeholders.
of the leading franchise in the UK, but they are engaged in implementing one of the most complex integration and corporate ACHIEVEMENTS restructurings ever undertaken.
They have acquitted themselves I am encouraged by what Lloyds Banking Group as an organisation admirably and I thank them on behalf of all shareholders.
In particular, in November we launched the Importantly, our Group is led by a strong management team who largest ever capital raising comprising a 9 billion debt exchange I believe have the skills to ensure this organisation delivers value to and a 13.5 billion rights issue.
This capital raising programme could our customers and shareholders.
They have successfully addressed not have been completed so successfully without the strong support the key strategic and operational challenges facing the organisation of the vast majority of our shareholders, debt holders and of course and will continue to do so to the benefit of all our stakeholders.
importantly the UK Government through UK Financial Investments.
We remain immensely grateful to them for that support.
In providing THE BANKING INDUSTRY this market-based alternative to our intended participation in the Government Asset Protection Scheme, we believe we provided It is of course a privilege to have the opportunity to serve our superior economic value to our shareholders.
Given our scale, with that privilege comes obligations.
issue and the liability management exercise are an important step That is why we are playing an active part in the UKs economic towards meeting our, and the Governments, objective for the Group recovery.
I am pleased to note that we extended 70 billion of to operate as a wholly privately owned self-supporting commercial gross committed lending last year helping many households enterprise.
HM Treasurys stake in the Group of 43.4 per cent at the and businesses in the process.
As the countrys largest private year end has reduced to 41.3 per cent following the completion of sector savings institution, we also played a commensurate part in the capital raising programme in February 2010. encouraging people to rediscover the savings habit, an essential component of the economic recovery.
More broadly we were, During the last few months of 2009 the Group, together with and continue to be, involved in all the Government schemes to HM Treasury, concluded negotiations with the European encourage lending and to assist people or businesses in financial Commission on a restructuring plan required as a result of the difficulties.
Also, our Lloyds Development Capital activities state aid received by the Group.
We will dispose of a retail banking provide vital equity and debt capital to smaller and medium-sized business with at least 600 branches, a 4.6 per cent market share of businesses that often are the most vulnerable, but at the same time, the personal current account market in the UK and approximately most growth orientated parts of the economy.
19 per cent of the Groups mortgage assets, along with a number of behavioural remedies.
The board is confident that the plan will not To the extent that banking institutions, including Lloyds Banking have a materially negative impact on the Group.
Group, meet their obligations of service and intermediation and are responsible and pro-active conduits of channelling savings into One of the behavioural commitments we entered into as part of the productive enterprises and households, we hope that trust in our plan is not to make coupon payments or to exercise voluntary call institutions may be re-established.
It will not happen overnight, options on certain securities from 31 January 2010 until 31 January but happen it must and it is up to us to ensure by our actions that 2012.
This will also prevent us from paying dividends on our ordinary it does.
shares for the same duration.
We fully understand the hardship that the lack of dividend and coupon payments has caused many of our It follows that it is right that there is thoughtful and considered shareholders and stakeholders, and we are working diligently to debate on the shape and structure of our industry and not simply restore the ability to pay dividends and create shareholder value.
knee-jerk reaction by the industry.
Accordingly, I believe that the The board intends to resume dividend payments on ordinary shares combined efforts of a few of the major global financial institutions, as soon as market conditions and the financial performance of perhaps with two or three of the respected industry bodies, the Group permit, subject to the expiry, in 2012, of the restrictions should pro-actively help develop proposals which are acceptable arising from the European Commissions remedies.
to and can be broadly supported by regulatory authorities and governments.
Such proposals could set the industry on the path towards an internationally agreed understanding, removing the uncertainty and scepticism hanging over the industry both of which factors act as a brake on progress, to the detriment of the broader economies.
4 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 and abroad.
David Roberts deep understanding at the most REMUNERATION senior level of commercial and retail banking in the UK, Europe We are conscious of the current public debate about remuneration and internationally is particularly valuable in that core business in the banking sector.
We understand that this is a sensitive issue for of our Group.
As you know I joined on 15 September 2009.
The many people at a time when their personal finances are challenged, full particulars and background of all our directors are set out on and also in the light of the significant support given by taxpayers pages 20 and 21. to our industry.
We have thought carefully and responsibly about We have also seen a number of departures.
Ewan Brown, the design of our remuneration schemes and have been engaged Jan du Plessis, Philip Green, Sir David Manning and Carolyn McCall in discussions with, and listened to, the views of a broad group of have all retired from the board.
I would like to thank each of them for our shareholders on the remuneration of senior management.
We their contribution to the Group, in some cases for many years, and are committed to maintaining the right balance between reward, during a period of great change, and latterly turmoil, in the banking risk management and performance and will continue to emphasise sector.
We wish them well for the future.
I wish also to pay tribute to consultation with our shareholders with a view to achieving the right my predecessor Sir Victor Blank as chairman of the Group during a balance.
Specifically, we are active participants in the debate about tumultuous time.
Sir Victor has had a long and distinguished career the appropriate remuneration structures for the banking sector.
in financial and professional services and in commerce and industry We believe deferral and clawback are the way forward and have and he retires with my thanks for his counsel and commitment since implemented these two factors in our own remuneration structures.
They have also become key features of remuneration design in the banking sector more generally and will be refined further, here in the UK and elsewhere.
OUTLOOK As we announced on 22 February 2010, our group chief executive, The acquisition of HBOS at the beginning of 2009 improved the Eric Daniels decided to waive the bonus which the board on the strategic positioning of Lloyds Banking Group albeit at short-term recommendation of the remuneration committee had awarded him.
We now have leading positions in many of the financial Eric took this decision in the interests of the Group since he felt the markets in which we participate, a market leading distribution public debate about bonuses in the banking industry was in danger capability, well recognised brands and a large customer base.
of obscuring the very real advances which had been achieved in The scale of the organisation provides us with the opportunity to terms of capital creation, quality of revenues, earnings prospects and further invest in products and services, systems and training, offering write-offs, and integration benefits.
We are grateful to Eric for his unparalleled choice and service to our customers.
At the same time, I believe it is important for the future that positioning, along with our strong relationship focus and prudent we and our shareholders find a way whereby remuneration models risk appetite, provides the platform for future growth.
will be allowed to be honoured without the recipient being put in a The successful execution of our strategy which is to focus on core position to feel he should waive the awards arising from them.
markets, on customer and cost leadership, on capital efficiency We are, as you know, primarily a retail and commercial bank.
This and on a prudent risk and funding profile should enable the Group means that the total payout under our Group bonus schemes for to deliver earnings growth and shareholder value whilst achieving 2009 will be a small percentage of overall revenues.
All awards in its aim to be recognised as the best financial services company the Group are subject, where appropriate, to deferral and clawback in the UK.
and agreed with UK Financial Investments and the Financial Services Authority FSA.
DIRECTORS AND GOVERNANCE Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman Governance structures are increasingly important in the financial 25 February 2010 services industry.
I am committed to ensuring that Lloyds Banking Group is at the forefront of these developments.
To that end the board has given additional authority to our nomination committee and renamed it nomination and governance committee, to deal with all governance matters and make recommendations on these to the board.
Since February 2009, there have been eleven changes to the board, five new directors and six departures.
In February 2009 two new non-executive directors were appointed.
Anthony Watson CBE brings with him over 40 years experience in the investment management industry.
Timothy Ryan is a senior investment banker with a wealth of knowledge and understanding of the financial services industry and significant experience in the governmental sector.
Lord Leitch was appointed deputy chairman in May 2009.
In March 2010 we will be joined by Glen Moreno and David Roberts.
Glen is chairman of Pearson plc and will be senior independent director.
He has significant financial and banking industry and public company experience in the UK 5 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW J Eric Daniels 2009 WAS A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT IN SHAPING THE GROUP.
WE HAVE ESTABLISHED POSITIVE TRENDS IN MARGIN, COST AND IMPAIRMENTS AND ARE WELL POSITIONED ADDRESSING THE KEY ISSUES CREATING THE PLATFORM FOR FUTURE GROWTH We now have market-leading positions in many of the financial markets in which we participate, a market-leading distribution capability, well recognised brands and a large customer base.
Over the last 12 months we have appointed the management team and implemented the management structures to ensure delivery of our strategy going forward.
INTEGRATION Excellent progress is being made on the integration of the two businesses.
Detailed integration plans have been developed and implemented and we exited the year with a cost synergy run-rate of 766 million.
The significant progress being made has led us to raise the expected synergies to a 2 billion annualised run-rate by the end of 2011.
RISK MANAGEMENT The strong risk management culture and more prudent risk appetite previously prevalent within Lloyds TSB has been applied to the enlarged Group.
The new Group has already exited a number of non-core areas in which HBOS previously participated and the more prudent through the cycle approach to risk is being applied to all new business.
EU STATE AID The uncertainty of the state aid repercussions was addressed in November when our restructuring plan was agreed by the European Commission.
CAPITAL The successful capital raising in December significantly strengthened the Group's capital ratios.
The appropriateness of capital levels will continue to be a focus for the regulatory authorities but we will always seek to satisfy capital requirements in a way that protects and maximises value to shareholders.
6 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 We delivered an equally good performance in the Wholesale SUMMARY division.
In our Commercial business, we opened approximately 2009 was another challenging year for the financial services industry, 100,000 new accounts and achieved a 23 per cent share of start-up both in the UK and around the world, reflecting a continuation businesses, and in Corporate we saw a 49 per cent improvement of many of the issues that arose in 2008.
During the year, the in cross-sales income from Lloyds TSB customers.
Wealth and UK experienced its sharpest contraction in gross domestic International, our new division, made a very encouraging start in product GDP for many decades, with a sharp fall in the value of 2009 with a strong growth in the number of relationship clients and commercial property alongside rising company failures and higher a 13 per cent growth in the number of UK private banking customers.
Despite the tough market conditions, our In Insurance, despite the more difficult market conditions, we core businesses have performed well.
made good progress in key product areas such as Open Ended Our significant achievements in 2009 will shape the future of the Investment Companies OEICs and life assurance protection.
We strengthened our franchise, attracting With over 30 million customers we understand the financial new customers and building deeper relationships.
We have made hardships that many households and businesses are experiencing excellent progress with the integration of HBOS, which we acquired as a result of the recent economic decline in the UK.
The Groups capital is robust and our funding committed to helping our customers in these challenging times, profile was strengthened considerably during the period.
which is reflective of our relationship-based approach.
In Retail, The management team implemented a number of programmes that we maintained strong levels of mortgage lending, with 35 billion have resulted in positive trends in margins, costs and impairments.
of gross new lending, and helped thousands of our customers to Given the momentum we have already developed in these areas, buy new homes.
In Wholesale we have provided approximately and with the stabilising economy, we believe the Group is well 10 billion of committed gross lending to small and medium-sized positioned to deliver a strong financial performance in the coming enterprises and approximately 25 billion to Corporate customers.
We are acutely aware of the importance of supporting households and businesses as we exit the recession, and we will remain just as We believe we have substantial additional growth opportunities focused on this in 2010 as we were in 2009. from continuing to develop our business model and applying it across the broader franchise.
As we realise the potential, it will Our asset margin improved during 2009, although the upturn came enable us to further improve our growth trajectory in the coming earlier than we had expected.
We are pricing assets to appropriately years.
reflect risk and our funding costs, and the net interest margin recovered somewhat in the second half.
The key drivers influencing Although we are forecasting a slow, below trend, economic recovery, our margin in 2010 will be asset pricing, a possible increase in the the Group is successfully addressing the near-term challenges and is base rate and the cost of wholesale funding.
We expect to be able well positioned to deliver value for our customers and shareholders.
to achieve a margin of 2 per cent this year, and to be on an upward As a result, the financial performance of the Groups continuing trajectory after that.
businesses is expected to improve significantly in 2010 and beyond.
We envisage minimal medium-term impact on our margin from the cost of wholesale funding, as we reduce our absolute wholesale RESULTS OVERVIEW funding requirement.
Additionally, whilst we anticipate that a high On a statutory basis, the Group delivered a profit before tax of proportion of our existing government and central bank funding will 1 billion for 2009.
This result includes an 11.2 billion negative not have to be re-financed, we believe we can replace the residual goodwill gain associated with the purchase of HBOS, given we portion at a cost that is similar to that which we are paying for these acquired the business at half book value in anticipation of the likely facilities at present.
losses resulting from their troubled asset portfolios.
On a combined businesses basis, the Group reported a 6.3 billion COST SYNERGY TARGET INCREASED loss for the year, compared to a 6.7 billion loss in 2008.
Our total Costs fell by 5 per cent in the year.
We have made great strides income rose 12 per cent, whilst costs fell 5 per cent.
The higher on delivering the integration of Lloyds TSB and HBOS, one of income and lower costs drove a substantial uplift in the trading the largest financial services mergers ever undertaken.
We exited surplus, which increased by 35 per cent, and our cost:income ratio the year with a cost synergy run-rate of 766 million.
The key improved to 48.4 per cent.
As guided last August, there was a programmes we have put in place are: rationalising our businesses significant increase in impairments, which rose to 24 billion from to eliminate areas of duplication: leveraging our procurement 14.9 billion in 2008, principally due to the HBOS portfolios and skills and re-aligning our property requirements.
Given we have their high level of exposure to commercial property.
now achieved half of our cost run-rate target, we have raised our guidance and are now targeting annual run-rate cost synergies of RESILIENT CORE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 2 billion by the end of 2011.
Total income, net of insurance claims, was up 12 per cent on prior year, helped by lower write-downs on treasury assets and the profits IMPAIRMENTS EXPECTED TO REDUCE from debt swaps.
These gains more than offset the year-on-year SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE COMING YEARS decline in margins, which suffered from the impact of very low base Impairments in the year were 24 billion, which is reflective of the rates and increased funding costs as we lengthened our maturity problem HBOS portfolios, in particular, the over-concentration in profile.
When we released our half-year results, The continued development of our customer franchises has enabled we said that total Group impairments would peak in that half, and us to offset the impact of the weak economy.
In Retail, we opened the full-year numbers confirm that guidance.
nearly 2 million current accounts and nearly 5 million new savings accounts, which are important drivers for future profitable growth.
7 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 The Lloyds TSB conservative approach to risk management has ECONOMIC OUTLOOK been implemented across the Group, and is making a difference.
The economic performance last year was worse than most All new lending is within the Groups risk appetite and the existing expected, with a 4.8 per cent decline in GDP.
Looking forward, portfolios are being managed to Group standards.
Looking we remain cautious but realistic.
Our view is that the risk of a severe forward, we expect to see a similar pace of half-yearly improvement further downturn in 2010 is lower than a few months ago and we throughout 2010, with further substantial reductions in 2011, and continue to forecast growth in GDP of 1.8 per cent for 2010, with beyond.
We expect reductions in all three customer divisions, a similar trend in 2011.
Against that backdrop, we expect property although we remain cautious on the Irish portfolios, given the prices will be broadly flat in 2010 and we remain on the cautious side uncertain economic outlook.
of the range of market expectations.
We anticipate that company failures will peak this year, but do not expect them to reach the ROBUST CAPITAL POSITION heights seen in the last recession due to much lower corporate debt servicing costs.
We believe unemployment will also peak in 2010, Following our recent successful capital raise, the Groups year end but at a lower level than seen in the last recession.
core tier one ratio was 8.1 per cent and it rose by a further 30 basis points in February 2010.
This reflects a number of successful actions Our financial outlook and guidance are based on a range of during the year which included the 4 billion ordinary share placing economic scenarios.
Having stressed our portfolios, we are and compensatory open offer in June, and the 22.5 billion equity confident of our capital position and the expectation of improving raising and liability management exercises announced in November.
financial performance, albeit the growth would be slower in coming through if there were a second economic downturn, or a weaker than expected economic recovery.
FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY STRENGTHENED A number of steps were taken in the year to extend the Groups BUSINESS OUTLOOK wholesale funding maturity and to further improve our liquidity profile.
The Groups loan to deposit ratio improved and over 2009 was a year of substantial achievement, in which we shaped the 50 per cent of the wholesale funding had a maturity of over one year Group to enable us to deliver the growth potential of the enlarged 2008: 44 per cent.
We had also established an 88 billion liquidity franchise.
We achieved this whilst maintaining good momentum buffer at the end of 2009.
In addition, the Group continued to widen in the core business, and as a result the Group is now in a strong its diverse range of funding sources and had already achieved a position.
significant amount of its expected term funding issuance for 2010 We have established positive trends in margin, costs and by the end of January.
The management actions we have already taken in these areas, combined with the underlying business momentum, DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE point towards significantly improved financial performance in the THROUGH THE CYCLE coming years.
The Groups aim is to be recognised as the UKs best financial We also believe there are significant opportunities for additional services business and to deliver sustainable value through the cycle growth, potentially amounting to hundreds of millions of pounds for our customers and shareholders.
The principal element of the in revenues.
Over the last five years Lloyds TSB has delivered Groups strategy remains the focus on building deep, long-lasting accelerating growth by focusing on acquiring, deepening and customer relationships in all its franchises.
We continue to support broadening customer relationships.
We can see significant this with a focus on driving down costs and maintaining effective opportunity from sustaining this trend in the legacy Lloyds TSB capital management disciplines, within a strong, conservative, risk franchise, and extending the model across the enlarged Group.
As we realise this potential, we will add to our growth trajectory.
The Group aims to: OUR PEOPLE Deliver high single-digit income growth from our continuing businesses within the next two years.
The last 12 months have been very challenging for all of our staff, Deliver annual reductions in our cost:income ratio of 2 per cent across the Group.
The external environment has been difficult, over the next few years.
but our staff have continued to serve and support our customers superbly while delivering one of the largest banking mergers in Run-off non-relationship assets to reduce the size of our balance history.
I, along with all the members of the board, am very proud sheet, providing the capacity to re-invest in growing our of their achievements this last year, and their performance underpins relationship businesses.
my confidence in our ability to deliver in the coming years.
STATE AID During 2009, the Group was required to work with HM Treasury to submit a restructuring plan to the European Commission in the J Eric Daniels context of a state aid review.
During the last few months of 2009, Group Chief Executive the final terms of the restructuring plan were agreed by the 25 February 2010 European Commission College of Commissioners.
The board approved the restructuring plan and is confident that it will not have a materially negative impact on the Group.
8 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A ISSUE: THE GOVERNMENT SHAREHOLDING ISSUE: STATE AID As a result of the recapitalisation of the banking sector and the The European Commission required the Group to agree a subsequent capital raisings the Government now holds a significant restructuring plan as a result of the investment in the Group by stake in Lloyds Banking Group.
What are the implications of this holding, how does the What remedies were agreed with the European Commission and Government intend to reduce its holding and how does the what are the implications of these remedies?
Governments share ownership impact the Groups business?
As a result of HM Treasurys investment in the Company in the context of As at the date these accounts were approved the Governments the placing and open offer undertaken by the Company in November shareholding in Lloyds Banking Group was approximately 2008 and the Groups participation in the Credit Guarantee Scheme, the 41.3 per cent, which is managed by UK Financial Investments Group was required to work with HM Treasury to submit a restructuring UKFI on behalf of HM Treasury.
plan to the European Commission in the context of a state aid review.
This plan was required to contain measures to limit any competition We have a very good working relationship with UKFI who act like distortions resulting from the state aid received by the Group.
any value orientated shareholder with regard to the strategic development and financial performance of the Group, providing During the last few months of 2009, HM Treasury and the Group significant constructive challenge where they see fit.
The were involved in detailed negotiations with the European Government has made it very clear that UK financial institutions in Commission in relation to the terms of the restructuring plan in which it holds substantial stakes will continue to be separate order to reach a mutually acceptable solution.
The final approval economic units with independent powers of decision and will of the UK Governments state aid measures, including the terms continue to have their own independent boards and management of the final restructuring plan, was agreed by the College of teams, determining their own strategies and commercial policies Commissioners in November 2009.
The plan consists of the including business plans and budgets.
following principal elements: a the disposal of a retail banking business with at least 600 branches, Moreover, the relationship between the Government and the a 4.6 per cent share of the personal current accounts market in the UK Group falls within the framework document between HM Treasury and approximately 19 per cent of the Groups mortgage assets.
The and UKFI published on 2 March 2009, which states that UKFI will business consists of: the TSB brand: the branches, savings accounts manage investments in the UK financial institutions in which and branch based mortgages of Cheltenham & Gloucester: the HM Treasury holds an interest on a commercial basis and will not branches and branch based customers of Lloyds TSB Scotland intervene in day-to-day management decisions of the investee and a related banking licence: additional Lloyds TSB branches in companies including with respect to individual lending or England and Wales, with branch based customers: and, Intelligent remuneration decisions.
These disposals need to be made within four years of The timing of any share disposal will be at the discretion of UKFI.
the date of state aid approval: However, within the publication An Introduction: Who We Are, b an asset reduction programme to achieve a 181 billion reduction What We Do and the Framework Document Which Governs the in a specified pool of end 2008 assets by 31 December 2014: Relationship Between UKFI and HM Treasury, it is stated that UKFI and is to develop and execute an investment strategy for disposing of c behavioural commitments, including commitments: not to the investments in the banks in an orderly and active way through make certain acquisitions for approximately three to four years: sale, redemption, buy-back or other means within the context of an and not to make discretionary payments of coupons or to overarching objective of protecting and creating value for the exercise voluntary call options on hybrid securities from taxpayer as shareholder, paying due regard to the maintenance of 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012, which will also prevent financial stability and to acting in a way that promotes competition.
the Group from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for the Going forward the Group is focused on delivering strategy and same duration.
subsequently value to all our shareholders.
The Government The assets and liabilities, and associated income and expenses, holding does not impact this management focus and we remain of the business to be divested referred to above cannot be committed to operating as a wholly privately owned, self determined with precision until nearer the date of sale.
However, supporting, dividend paying, commercial enterprise over time.
the Company estimated that, as at 31 December 2008 and after aggregating the elements relating to Lloyds TSB and HBOS, the retail business to be divested comprised approximately 70 billion of customer lending and 30 billion of customer deposits.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, the board estimated that the retail business to be divested generated income of approximately 1.4 billion and contributed approximately 500 million of profit before tax to the Group.
9 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 ISSUE: FUTURE GROWTH ISSUE: THE GROUP DIVIDEND At the time of the acquisition of HBOS the Group indicated that the The European Commission state aid review prevents the Group from acquisition was a unique transaction that would position the Group paying dividends on its ordinary shares.
When will you recommence the payment of dividends?
Does the Group still believe that this is the case and how is the As a result of the UK Governments investment in the Group as part Group going to deliver earnings growth over the next few years?
of the initial recapitalisation by the Company in November 2008, The acquisition of HBOS at the beginning of 2009 has undoubtedly the rights issue announced in November 2009 and our participation improved the strategic positioning of the Lloyds Banking Group in the Credit Guarantee Scheme, the Group has been deemed to and helped position the Group for future growth.
We now have have accepted state aid and subsequently the European market leading positions in many of the financial markets in which Commission required us to undertake a restructuring plan see the we participate, a market leading distribution capability, well state aid question for further detail.
This, amongst other things, recognised brands and a large customer base.
The scale of the includes a behavioural commitment not to make discretionary organisation provides us with the opportunity to further invest in payments of coupons or to exercise voluntary call options on hybrid products and services, systems and training, offering unparalleled securities from 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012.
This also choice and service to our customers.
This strategic positioning prevents the Group from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for along with our strong relationship focus and prudent risk appetite the same duration.
provides the platform for future growth.
We understand the distress the lack of dividend has caused many Our customer franchise and relationship focus will be key drivers of of our shareholders and are working hard to restore shareholder earnings growth going forward and we believe that the Group can value.
The capital raising in December 2009 was a significant step deliver high single-digit income growth within the next few years as towards meeting our objective of operating as a wholly privately we meet the needs of our customers more effectively and extend owned, self-supporting, dividend paying, commercial enterprise the depth of our customer relationships.
The board intends to resume dividend payments on ordinary shares as soon as market conditions and the financial Lloyds TSB has historically been strong in managing the cost performance of the Group permit, subject to the expiry of the base but the unique positioning of the Group also now provides restrictions arising from the European Commission remedies.
a number of opportunities not available to other providers.
The integration of the two businesses provides the opportunity for significant cost synergies.
We have already outlined that we are looking to achieve 2 billion of cost synergies per annum by the end of 2011 and are already well on track for this, having delivered 766 million of synergies on an annualised basis in 2009.
To date these synergies have primarily arisen from fide-duplication of functions and property consolidation but going forward significant opportunities still exist from system integration and procurement.
We believe that the Group can deliver a 200 basis points reduction in the cost:income ratio per annum over the next few years.
Impairment losses, particularly from the heritage HBOS business, have also significantly impacted profits over the past two years.
We outlined at the half-year that we believed Group impairment losses had peaked in the first half of 2009 and this was borne out in the full year numbers which showed a 21 per cent reduction in impairment in the second half of the year.
The Group believes impairment losses will continue to fall going forward and though given the current economic environment such levels are still inflated we believe impairments will return to more normalised levels over the next couple of years.
The significant reduction in expected impairments will evidently benefit profits.
Overall the Group believes that the successful execution of its strategy focusing on core markets, customer and cost leadership, capital efficiency and a prudent risk appetite should enable the Group to deliver earnings growth and shareholder value whilst achieving its vision to be recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
10 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 DIVISIONAL RESULTS RETAIL OVERVIEW OPERATING BRANDS Retail is the largest retail bank in the UK and the leading provider of current accounts, savings, personal loans, credit cards and mortgages.
With its strong stable of brands including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Cheltenham & Gloucester, it serves over 30 million customers through one of the largest branch and fee free ATM networks in the UK.
Retail has approximately 22 million current account customers and provides social banking to over 4 million people through basic banking or social banking accounts.
It is also the largest provider of personal loans in the UK, as well as being the UKs leading credit card issuer.
Retail provides one in four residential mortgages making it the leading UK mortgage lender as well as being a major provider of home finance for the first time buyer.
Retail is the largest private sector savings provider in the UK, with over 21 million savers.
It is also a major general insurance and bancassurance distributor, selling a wide range of long-term savings, investment and general insurance products.
STRATEGY Retail's strategic goal is to be recognised by its customers as the UK's best and most recommended bank.
It will achieve this by building deep and enduring customer relationships which deliver real value to customers.
Supporting this strategy are a strong stable of brands which provide unparalleled customer reach and choice: deep customer insight based on the strength of the customer franchise: and highly efficient and effective low cost processes as a result of business scale.
Real customer understanding and lower cost processes will enable further investment in the products and services that Retail customers want.
Last, but not least, investment in effective tools and processes will allow Retail colleagues to focus on meeting customer needs.
This strategy will be delivered within clearly defined and prudent risk parameters.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2009 2008 Change Profit before tax and fair value unwind amounted to 975 million, m m % a decrease of 1,567 million on 2008 primarily due to lower income and Net interest income 7,970 8,454 6 higher levels of impairment, partly offset by a decrease in operating expenses.
Other income 1,804 2,739 34 Net interest income has decreased by 6 per cent to 7,970 million.
Total income 9,774 11,193 13 The banking net interest margin decline of 18 basis points reflected Operating expenses 4,566 4,963 8 higher wholesale funding costs and lower deposit margins in the low Trading surplus 5,208 6,230 16 base rate environment, partly offset by higher asset pricing, the Impairment 4,227 3,695 14 benefits from which improved the margin in the second half of the year.
Share of results of joint ventures Other operating income has decreased by 34 per cent to and associates 6 7 1,804 million, primarily due to lower payment protection income and non-recurring one-off income in 2008.
Profit before tax and fair value unwind 975 2,542 62 Strong cost management delivering benefits.
Operating expenses Fair value unwind 407 decreased by 8 per cent primarily due to tight cost control, cost savings achieved from the integration programme and lower Financial Services Profit before tax 1,382 2,542 46 Compensation Scheme charges.
Banking net interest margin 1.97% 2.15% Impairment losses have increased by 14 per cent to 4,227 million, Cost:income ratio 46.7% 44.3% reflecting the effect of increased UK unemployment during 2009 on the Impairment losses as a % of unsecured charge, partly offset by a lower secured impairment charge average advances 1.11% 0.97% as house prices stabilised.
Continued good new lending quality, reflecting continued strong credit criteria with the average loan-to-value ratio on new mortgage lending at 59 per cent, compared to 63 per cent for 2008.
Good progress was made in integrating the Lloyds TSB and HBOS retail businesses.
New management structures have been implemented across Retail and continuing good progress has been made in streamlining, simplifying and integrating back office processes.
Retails integration synergies of 124 million for 2009 were ahead of expectations.
11 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 DIVISIONAL RESULTS WHOLESALE OVERVIEW OPERATING BRANDS The Wholesale division serves in excess of a million businesses, ranging from start-ups and small enterprises to global corporations, with a range of propositions fully segmented according to customer need.
The division comprises Corporate Markets, Treasury and Trading, and Asset Finance.
Corporate Markets comprises Corporate, Commercial, Corporate Real Estate, Specialist Finance and Wholesale Markets.
Corporate, Commercial and Corporate Real Estate provide relationship-based banking, risk management and advisory services to corporate and commercial customers principally in the UK.
Specialist Finance includes the acquisition finance and private equity businesses.
Wholesale Markets provides risk management solutions, specialised lending, capital markets advisory and multi-product financing solutions to its customers, whilst managing the Groups own portfolio of structured credit investments and treasury assets.
Treasury and Tradings role is to provide access to financial markets in order to meet the Groups balance sheet management requirements, and provides trading infrastructure to support execution of customer-driven risk management transactions, whilst operating within a well controlled and conservative risk appetite.
Asset Finance consists of a number of leasing and speciality lending businesses including Contract Hire, Specialist Assets and Consumer Finance.
STRATEGY Wholesales strategic goal is to be recognised as the UKs leading, through-the-cycle, relationship-focused wholesale bank.
The mission is to deepen and retain recurring, multi-product customer relationships building on deep insight into customer needs to provide a broad range of banking, risk management and capital market products.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2009 2008 Change Loss before tax and fair value unwind amounted to 11,600 million, m m % an increase of 1,121 million on 2008 due to higher levels of impairment, Net interest income 4,710 5,752 18 partly offset by an increase in other operating income and a decrease in operating expenses.
Other income 4,199 302 Total income has increased by 63 per cent to 8,909 million, Total income 8,909 5,450 63 particularly reflecting the lower impact of market dislocation and Operating expenses 4,106 4,591 11 continued strength in sales and trading activity.
Trading surplus 4,803 859 Net interest income has decreased by 18 per cent to 4,710 million.
Impairment 15,683 10,394 51 The banking net interest margin decline of 33 basis points since prior Share of results of joint ventures year reflected higher wholesale funding costs partly offset by higher and associates 720 944 24 asset pricing.
Margins fell in the first half of the year but have stabilised in the second half of 2009.
Loss before tax and fair value unwind 11,600 10,479 11 Strong cost management delivering benefits, excluding the cost of Fair value unwind 6,897 settlement of certain historic US dollar payments practices incurred in 2008, total operating expenses decreased by 7 per cent, reflecting Loss before tax 4,703 10,479 55 reduced levels of operating lease business and cost savings achieved Loss before tax and fair value from the integration programme, partly offset by increased investment unwind by business unit in Wholesales customer focused business support functions.
Corporate Markets 11,736 10,509 12 Impairment losses amounted to 15,683 million, compared to Treasury and Trading 595 273 10,394 million in 2008, reflecting the continued weak economic climate Asset Finance 459 243 89 and the application of Lloyds Banking Group prudent impairment Loss before tax and assumptions, primarily in HBOS Corporate Real Estate and HBOS UK fair value unwind 11,600 10,479 11 and US Corporate businesses.
Total impairment losses are expected to have peaked in the first half of 2009, with a significant reduction in the Banking net interest margin 1.52% 1.85% impairment charge delivered in the second half of 2009 of 39 per cent.
Cost:income ratio 46.1% 84.2% Cross-selling from deepening relationships has increased by Impairment losses as a % of 26 per cent, reflecting increased product competencies and average advances 5.92% 3.32% opportunities through a single sales force on the combined customer base.
12 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 DIVISIONAL RESULTS WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL OVERVIEW OPERATING BRANDS Wealth and International is a new division formed in 2009 to give increased focus and momentum to the private banking and asset management businesses and to closely co-ordinate the management of our international businesses.
The division operates in more than 30 countries around the world.
The Wealth business comprises private banking, wealth and asset management businesses in the UK and overseas.
The key operations are UK and International Private Banking, which operate under the Lloyds TSB Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland brands, the Channel Islands and Isle of Man offshore businesses, the expatriates business and the asset management business.
The International business comprises most of the Group's other international banking businesses outside of the UK.
These largely comprise corporate, commercial and asset finance businesses in Australia, Ireland and Continental Europe and retail businesses in Ireland, Germany and the Netherlands.
STRATEGY Wealth represents a key growth opportunity for the Group and, through deepening the relationships with existing Group clients alongside targeted external customer acquisition, Wealths goal is to be recognised as the trusted advisor to expatriate and private banking clients both in the UK and selected international markets.
Wealths initial focus in the UK will be to increase the penetration of its offering into the Groups existing customer base by referring wealthier customers to its private banking businesses where their wider financial needs can be more effectively met.
In the International businesses, the priority is to maximise value in the short to medium-term.
Internationals immediate focus is close management of the lending portfolio, particularly in the Irish business, embedding the Groups risk management policies and procedures and repricing assets where appropriate.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2009 2008 Change Loss before tax and fair value unwind amounted to 3,298 million, m m % compared to a profit of 277 million in 2008 due to higher levels of Net interest income 1,217 1,314 7 impairment.
Other income 1,128 1,191 5 Total income has decreased by 6 per cent to 2,345 million, reflecting lower net interest margins, and the impact of lower global Total income 2,345 2,505 6 stock markets particularly in the first half of the year, partly offset by Operating expenses 1,544 1,476 5 favourable foreign exchange movements.
Trading surplus 801 1,029 22 Net interest income has decreased by 7 per cent to 1,217 million, Impairment 4,078 731 the banking net interest margin decline of 35 basis points reflects Share of results of joint ventures higher wholesale funding costs and lower deposit margins in the low and associates 21 21 base rate environment, partly offset by the impact of strong portfolio Profit loss before tax management in International, leading to an underlying gross asset and fair value unwind 3,298 277 reduction of 7 per cent, and higher asset pricing leading to higher margins.
Fair value unwind 942 Targeted cost management has delivered benefits, excluding the Profit loss before tax 2,356 277 impact of foreign exchange movements and additional costs Profit loss before tax and associated with transitional services in the Australian business, fair value unwind by business unit underlying costs were slightly lower than 2008 due to cost savings Wealth 198 369 achieved from integration partly offset by investments into higher International 3,496 92 growth areas and business support functions.
Profit loss before tax Impairment losses amounted to 4,078 million, compared to and fair value unwind 3,298 277 731 million in 2008, reflecting the significant deterioration in the credit Banking net interest margin 1.71% 2.06% risk environment in Ireland and Australia.
The impairment charge for Wealth and International is expected to have peaked in 2009, although Cost:income ratio 65.8% 58.9% the economic conditions in Ireland continue to be monitored closely.
Impairment losses as a % of Good progress was made in integrating the Lloyds TSB and HBOS average advances 6.04% 1.05% Wealth and International businesses.
Wealth and Internationals integration synergies for 2009 were ahead of expectations.
13 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 DIVISIONAL RESULTS INSURANCE OVERVIEW OPERATING BRANDS The Insurance division offers life assurance, pensions, investment products and general insurance and operates through three main businesses: Life, Pensions and Investments UK, Life, Pensions and Investments Europe, and General Insurance.
The UK Life, Pensions and Investments business is the leading bancassurance provider in the UK and has one of the largest intermediary sales forces in the industry.
The business includes Scottish Widows which, for a number of years, has been a subsidiary of the Lloyds TSB Group and the provider of long-term savings and investment products distributed through all channels of that group.
Following the acquisition of HBOS, the Life, Pensions and Investments business also includes business written through the intermediary and bancassurance channels under the Clerical Medical and Halifax brands respectively.
The European Life, Pensions and Investments business distributes products primarily in the German market under the Heidelberger Leben and Clerical Medical brands.
The combined General Insurance business is a leading distributor of home and payment protection insurance in the UK, with products sold through the branch network, direct channels and strategic corporate partners.
The business is one of the largest underwriters of personal insurance business in the UK and also has significant brokerage operations for personal and commercial insurances.
It operates primarily under the Lloyds TSB, Halifax and Bank of Scotland brands.
STRATEGY The Insurance divisions strategic vision is to be recognised as the best insurance business by our customers, colleagues and shareholders.
The division has set itself four strategic objectives to achieve its vision of being the best Insurance business in the UK: complete the integration of its market leading businesses: continue to strengthen its leading brands and grow sales profitably in its targeted markets: enhance the capital and operational efficiency of existing and future business: and leverage Lloyds Banking Group strengths in distribution and asset management.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 2009 2008 Change Profit before tax and fair value unwind amounted to 1,024 million, m m % a decrease of 516 million on 2008, resulting from a reduction in income Net interest income 287 345 17 and an increase in claims, due to factors including demanding market conditions, partly offset by a decrease in operating expenses.
Other income 2,944 3,493 16 Total income net of insurance claims has decreased by 647 million Total income 2,657 3,148 16 to 2,020 million, due to the non-recurrence of 334 million of HBOS Insurance claims 637 481 32 legacy one-off benefits, a 156 million increase in insurance claims and Total income, net of insurance the impact of challenging economic conditions driving lower sales and claims 2,020 2,667 24 returns, partially offset by significantly lower charges for policyholder lapses.
Operating expenses 974 1,129 14 Share of results of joint ventures 1 Life, Pensions and Investments UK sales of 12,973 million PVNBP and associates 22 2 reduced by 26 per cent.
In addition to the general contraction in the market, sales were significantly impacted as the intermediary sales Profit before tax and forces were integrated and a number of HBOS legacy products with fair value unwind 1,024 1,540 34 poor returns were withdrawn.
These factors led to sales through the Fair value unwind 49 intermediary channel reducing by 35 per cent.
Bancassurance sales, Profit before tax 975 1,540 37 excluding payment protection, were resilient given the challenging Profit before tax and fair value market conditions with a reduction of 11 per cent from 2008.
Sales of unwind by business unit OEIC products delivered strong growth of 12 per cent.
Life, pensions and investments: General Insurance profits have decreased by 32 per cent to UK business 617 826 25 367 million, due to a 156 million increase in claims, primarily unemployment related, lower investment returns and the market wide European business 75 149 50 move to monthly premium payment protection business.
General insurance 367 537 32 Strong cost management delivering benefits.
Operating expenses 2 Other 35 28 have decreased by 155 million to 974 million mainly due to continued Profit before tax and focus on cost management and delivering integration synergies.
fair value unwind 1,024 1,540 34 Underlying operating expenses reduced by 8 per cent allowing for certain reclassifications and non-recurring items.
2 Includes certain divisional costs and income not allocated to business units, as well as the 1 Pr esent Value of New Business Premiums.
divisions share of results of joint ventures and associates.
14 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 OUR PEOPLE BUILDING LONG LASTING RELATIONSHIPS THROUGH PEOPLE We use a range of programmes linked to professional quali cations or We are a business based on building deep and lasting relationships external certi cation to develop our colleagues in line with recognised with our customers through the efforts of our people.
Colleagues industry standards and provide confidence to customers and other are our most valuable resource, as it is our colleagues who will build stakeholders.
This has gained us two external awards: Best use of these relationships.
Managing our colleagues effectively is therefore synchronous e-learning at the annual E-Learning Age Awards and fundamental to the success of the business and achieving our vision the 2009 Security Training Initiative of the Year Award at the Security of being the best financial services organisation.
Creating a great place to work is a core priority to enable the Group to A key focus remains the development and strengthening of be recognised, both within the financial services sector, but also more management and leadership skills.
In 2009 we have placed particular generally in the UK employment market, as the best organisation to emphasis on performance management and leading during a period work for.
In creating a great place to work, we believe we will attract and retain During 2009 we have developed and launched our new group wide talented and high performing people.
We offer excellent learning and learning portal, Learning @ Lloyds Banking Group, providing all development opportunities so that our colleagues can build fulfilling colleagues with access to a range of learning and development careers within the organisation.
We are building a high commitment, high performance organisation.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We are clear about what we expect from our colleagues and what Diversity and Inclusion remains a top priority for Lloyds Banking Group.
Our values guide us in all our relationships In a challenging economic climate we believe more than ever that our whether they be with colleagues, customers or the wider community.
In success depends on building strong and enduring relationships with Lloyds Banking Group, our values are that we: take ownership: act wisely: diverse groups colleagues, customers and suppliers.
make it simple: stretch ourselves: and succeed together.
In 2009 we have begun to build a leading edge diversity and inclusion INTEGRATION strategy for Lloyds Banking Group using the best elements of the 2009 was signi cant in relation to people integration.
The top 400 respective Lloyds TSB and HBOS diversity programmes.
Our executive leaders were in place by month three and over 35,000 colleagues went management team has one of the highest female representations in the through selection.
Inevitably in bringing the two organisations together, FTSE 100, with three female directors.
Elsewhere we have continued our there has been an opportunity to rationalise and this has led to a focus on race, disability and sexual orientation.
Our aim has always been, where possible, to either In 2009 we sponsored Doing Seniority Differently, a groundbreaking redeploy people to other areas of the Group or reduce numbers through 1 piece of research by RADAR into the career experiences of senior natural attrition.
managers with a disability or long-term health condition.
COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT We continue to make progress on sexual orientation.
Lloyds TSB won We believe that to create a high commitment, high performance 2 first place in Stonewalls 2009 Index of the best UK employers for organisation, we need to have high levels of colleague engagement.
lesbian, gay and bisexual people.
Every quarter we run a comprehensive con dential colleague survey In 2009 Lloyds TSB was named by the charity Working Families as one to gauge colleagues views on key issues.
of the UKs Top 20 Employers for working parents, and we will continue In 2009, we extended the scope of the colleague survey to include all UK to focus on ensuring all colleagues can achieve a good balance between and International colleagues across both Lloyds TSB and HBOS legacy their work and their lives outside.
We achieved a record response rate of 81 per cent in 2009 which is regarded as best in class.
The overall Engagement Index REWARD nished the year at 72 index points, 2 points above the target.
Ensuring that we offer a total reward package that is market competitive and supports our strategy to attract and retain talented people to TALENT, RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION the business, continues to be a key driver for our reward framework.
One of the highest priorities for our leaders is recruiting, retaining and Throughout 2009, we have been developing and consulting with developing talented people.
Developing our current colleagues and our unions about proposals for harmonised terms and conditions of succession planning are vital in supporting our growth strategy.
Our harmonised reward package will support our One retaining people for an average tenure across our business of 12 years.
Bank approach and re ect the importance of linking individual and Group performance to rewards within a strong risk framework.
Following the launch of the new Lloyds Banking Group Graduate Programme for 2009, we recruited 141 people into our Graduate There has been a renewed focus in the regulatory environment, Leadership Programme, offered 42 internships and 10 industrial speci cally relating to the link between business risk and the reward placements.
We are consistently identied in The Times Top 100 arrangements for individuals.
In compliance with these requirements organisations for graduate recruitment.
we have reviewed our governance arrangements to ensure they are best practice and comply with the FSA and G20 positions.
This has PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT been a challenge for the industry as a whole and has required us to The Group uses a balanced scorecard approach to measure, manage operate within a framework of interest from an increasing number of and reward colleague performance, taking into account the needs stakeholders, including organisations such as the FSA and UKFI.
of customers, colleagues and shareholders.
We measure individual performance against five factors: building the business: customer service: risk management: personal development and financial control.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT We are committed to ensuring that all colleagues have the technical, management and leadership skills that will enable Lloyds Banking Group to deliver the high performance needed to be recognised as the best financial services company.
To deliver great service and results we look to equip our colleagues with appropriate technical capabilities and critical business skills such as risk, relationship and financial management, to enable them to support our 1 RADAR is the UKs leading pan-disability charity.
Stonewall is the UKs leading sexual orientation campaigning organisation.
15 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPORTING OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND ADVICE Our objective is to be recognised as the best financial services company We have a responsible lending programme with internal management in the UK by customers, colleagues and shareholders.
Our corporate reporting and accountability.
We wish to ensure customers only borrow responsibility strategy is helping to deliver this objective.
The Group what they can afford to repay.
We only offer loans and credit cards after makes a positive contribution to communities all over the UK, helping carefully assessing customers financial circumstances, and regularly us achieve a competitive advantage and deliver business success.
check that their borrowing remains suitable to them.
We have dedicated customer support units to provide specialist help to customers who are worried about their financial situation.
We proactively contact customers EMBEDDING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACROSS THE GROUP showing signs of distress and train customer-facing colleagues to provide In 2009, we established a new corporate responsibility steering group.
We also contributed more than 6 million in 2009 Chaired by Angie Risley, Group HR Director, and comprising senior to the financial advice sector.
executives from across the Group, it meets on a regular basis to review strategy, monitor progress and make sure we achieve our objectives.
HELPING THE FINANCIALLY EXCLUDED We have adopted the former Lloyds TSB Group Code of Conduct across With over 4 million accounts, we are the UKs largest provider of social all of our operations.
The Code is underpinned by corporate responsibility bank accounts.
We also work with credit unions throughout the UK, policies, setting minimum requirements for our business activities.
managing their accounts and offering practical advice and support to help them improve and extend their services.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have committed 4 million to a new further education financial Our key stakeholders are those who are impacted signi cantly by capability project to improve the range of web based resources available our business or who might impact on it.
This summary review covers to financial capability bodies across the further education and skills our approach to customers, communities and climate change.
commitment to shareholders is covered in the chairman's statement and the group chief executive's review and our approach to colleagues In 2009, the Groups charitable Foundations received 29 million in is covered separately, on page 14. grants to support their work in some of the most vulnerable communities in the UK.
The Foundations currently fund a number of financial inclusion and financial capability projects.
OUR CUSTOMERS We are dedicated to building deep, lasting customer relationships that OUR COMMUNITIES distinguish us as the best bank in the UK.
We lent nearly 70 billion in Our main contribution to society is as a major employer and purchaser new lending to homeowners and businesses in 2009.
Lloyds TSB was of goods and services.
Our economic contribution is supported by our voted the most trusted brand by Readers Digest readers in 2009, for active investment in communities across the UK.
Lloyds Banking Group colleagues, customers and shareholders We will know we have achieved our vision to be the best bank when have raised over 2 million for our Charity of the Year, the British our customers recommend us more than any other bank.
During 2009, Heart Foundation, to fund 15 specialist nurses supporting over we implemented consistent customer advocacy metrics across the 8,400 heart patients.
new Group to measure customer recommendation of our products and services.
We have put in place several initiatives to improve customer We are harn essing our sponsorship of the London 2012 Olympics to advocacy.
These include targets for each of our main brands, and linking support the next generation of sporting talent.
Lloyds TSB National these targets to retail colleagues performance.
School Sport week is the biggest community sport programme in the UK, aiming to inspire young people to do more sport.
In 2009 three PLAYING OUR PART IN THE UKS ECONOMIC RECOVERY million young people took part.
We have over 30 million customers and play a very active part in the UK economy and its recovery.
WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS Our suppliers are important to us.
We want to ensure we treat them Helping households fairly and pay them on time.
In 2009, we became signatories to the We are the UKs largest mortgage lender.
In 2009, we wrote 34.7 billion new Prompt Payment Code.
We have procurement standards in place of new mortgages.
We are also the largest provider of finance to first across the Group which take account of suppliers policies and practices: time home buyers.
In 2009, for example, through our Lloyds TSB brand, including their social, ethical and environmental credentials.
we launched the market leading Lend a Hand mortgage, helping first time buyers onto the housing ladder.
CLIMATE CHANGE We qualify as a participant in the Governments mandatory climate We are also the biggest provider of finance to the social housing sector.
change scheme, the CRC Energy Ef ciency Scheme, due to start in By the end of 2009 we had committed 14 billion to social housing and April 2010.
We are developing an integrated carbon management had a market share of around 23 per cent.
strategy for the Group and continue to invest signi cant capital in We are taking part in twelve of the Governments financial initiatives carbon reduction projects.
aimed at: helping customers enter the housing market: helping small We aim to reduce environmental impacts of our lending and project businesses start up: and helping customers in financial dif culty.
The finance activities through effective risk management.
In 2009 we level of Lloyds Banking Group repossessions has remained well below implemented an integrated Groupwide Environmental Risk Policy the Council of Mortgage Lenders industry average.
We are a signatory to the Equator Workin g with small and medium sized enterprises Principles to manage risks in Project Finance.
We are committed to helping small to medium sized enterprises SMEs in the dif cult current economic climate.
We grew our market share in SUMMARY lending to SMEs in 2009 and opened more than 100,000 new accounts.
Our approach to our key stakeholders underpins our objective to We offer the facility for customers without adequate capital to borrow be recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
We under the Governments Enterprise Finance Guarantee Scheme.
proactively manage our relationships with all of them.
We launched a new 2012 SME Charter in 2009 to encourage enterprise, We have a crucial role to play in the recovery of the UK economy.
Our boost access to finance and provide clear and fairer pricing for customers, support for households and small businesses was further underlined in as well as help 300,000 new start-ups across the country by 2012.
2009 by our participation in Government schemes designed to help them.
16 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 million million Net interest income 9,026 7,718 Other income 36,271 709 Total income 45,297 7,009 Insurance claims 22,019 2,859 Total income, net of insurance claims 23,278 9,868 Operating expenses 15,984 6,100 Trading surplus 7,294 3,768 Impairment 16,673 3,012 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 752 4 Gain on acquisition 11,173 Profit before tax 1,042 760 Taxation 1,911 38 Profit for the year 2,953 798 Profit attributable to minority interests 126 26 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 2,827 772 Profit for the year 2,953 798 Basic earnings per share 7.5p 6.7p Diluted earnings per share 7.5p 6.6p 1 Total dividend per share for the year 11.4p 1 Total dividend for the year 648m 000 000 Directors emoluments 9,900 5,623 1 The dividend for the year in 2008 represented the interim dividend for 2008 paid on 1 October 2008.
The Groups income statement includes substantial amounts of income and expenditure attributable to the policyholders of the Groups long-term assurance funds, which are consolidated in order to meet the requirements of accounting standards.
These amounts are volatile and can cause signi cant variations in total income and insurance claims: however they have no overall effect upon pro t attributable to equity shareholders over the long term.
17 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 S UMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET at 31 December 2009 2009 2008 million million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 38,994 5,008 Derivatives, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 199,939 73,948 Loans and advances to customers 626,969 240,344 Loans and advances to banks 35,361 38,733 Debt securities 32,652 4,416 694,982 283,493 Available-for-sale financial assets 46,602 55,707 Investment properties 4,757 2,631 Intangible assets, including goodwill, and the value of in-force business 12,788 4,346 Tangible fixed assets 9,224 2,965 Other assets 19,969 7, 935 Total assets 1,027,255 436,033 Liabilities Deposits from banks 82,452 66,514 Customer accounts 406,741 170,938 Derivatives, trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 68,756 33,646 Debt securities in issue 233,502 75,710 Insurance liabilities 77,261 34,062 Liabilities to customers under non-participating investment contracts 46,348 14,243 Other liabilities 32,581 12,194 Retirement benefit obligations 780 1,771 Subordinated liabilities 34,727 17,256 Total liabilities 983,148 426,334 Shareholders equity 43,278 9,393 Minority interests 829 306 Total equity 44,107 9,699 Total equity and liabilities 1,027,255 436,033 The summary financial statement, comprising the summary consolidated income statement on page 16, the summary consolidated balance sheet on page 17 and the directors remuneration commentary on page 19 was approved by the directors on 25 February 2010.
Sir Winfried Bischoff J Eric Daniels Tim J W Tookey Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 18 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 AUDITORS REPORT ON FULL ACCOUNTS SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT The auditors reports on the full accounts for the year ended The Company is a holding company and its subsidiaries provide a wide 31 December 2009 were unquali ed and did not include a statement range of banking and financial services through branches and of ces in under sections 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or the UK and overseas.
accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 498 3 failure to A review of the business and an indication of future developments are obtain necessary information and explanations of the UK Companies given on the inside front cover and on pages 10 to 13.
Biographical details of directors are shown on pages 20 and 21.
Six directors stood down from the board during the year, as follows: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE Mr J P du Plessis 17 April, Mr Ewan Brown 5 June, Sir Victor Blank MEMBERS OF LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC 15 September, Mr P N Green 23 October, Sir David Manning We have examined the summary financial statement, which comprises 2 November and Ms C J McCall 31 December.
Mr T T Ryan, the summary consolidated income statement on page 16, the summary Mr Anthony Watson and Sir Winfried Bischoff joined the board on consolidated balance sheet on page 17 and the directors remuneration 1 March 2009, 2 April 2009 and 15 September 2009, respectively, and commentary on page 19.
Mr G R Moreno and Mr D L Roberts have been appointed directors from 1 March 2010.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Particulars of the directors interests in shares in the Company and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review in detailed information about share capital and change of control are accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
shown in the full report and accounts.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the annual review with the annual financial statements, directors report, and directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement and the corporate governance statement and the other items within the annual review.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section 428 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BASIS OF OPINION We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the Companys full annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements, the directors' report and the directors remuneration report.
OPINION In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, directors report and directors remuneration report of Lloyds Banking Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the UK Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Edinburgh 25 February 2010 19 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 GOVERNANCE Deferred annual incentive is subject to clawback: ie it is not released DIRECTORS REMUNERATION when information subsequently comes to light about the performance Full details of the Groups remuneration policy for directors as well as on which the incentive award is based, which had it been know prior details of their remuneration in 2009 appear in the directors remuneration to the determination of the awards it would have affected the original report in the full report and accounts.
This may be seen in the Investors award decision.
section of the Groups website at www.
A combination of financial and nonfinancial measures encourages a long-term focus This last year has been one of the most challenging for remuneration Economic pro t, which is a risk-adjusted pro t measure, is a core in banking, following on from 2008 which was a year of unprecedented financial target change and turmoil across the sector.
At the same time, the Group has been faced with the immense task of integrating the Lloyds TSB and Executive directors also remain expected to build a shareholding in the HBOS businesses one of the biggest integrations ever undertaken Group equivalent to 1.5 times 2 times for the group chief executive in the sector and where considerable progress has been made during basic salary.
They are expected to retain 100 per cent of the net-of-tax the first year of the three year programme.
In making decisions on proceeds of the 2009 LTIP until they reach that target.
In addition remuneration, the Group has continually had to balance the current they are required to retain any shares vesting from the share price operating environment and the fact that the Group is in a loss making performance element of the 2010 LTIP for a further two years post position with the need to motivate the executives to run the business in vesting.
a way to maximise the returns for the shareholder, including the taxpayer.
The Group believes that these arrangements are well aligned with the The Group has sought to strike this balance by maintaining the prudent FSAs Code of Practice on Remuneration.
approach to reward overall that it has adopted in previous years, The fees of the independent non-executive directors are agreed within whilst ensuring that the right incentives are in place to reward future a total amount agreed by the shareholders.
They may also receive fees, performance.
At the same time the Group has during 2009, built on agreed by the board, for membership of board committees.
The fees are the work of 2008 to ensure that the Groups remuneration policy and designed to recognise the responsibilities of a non-executive directors arrangements comply with the FSA Code of Practice on Remuneration.
role and to attract individuals with relevant skills, knowledge and For 2009 there were no salary increases for executives, executives waived experience.
The fees are neither performance related nor pensionable any entitlement to annual incentives in respect of 2008 performance and are comparable with those paid by other companies.
The fees year and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP opportunity was reduced remain unchanged from 1 January 2008. from 2008 levels by up to 175 per cent of salary.
Awards under the annual The chairmans salary was reviewed at the time of his appointment.
incentive plan for 2009 have been made based on a rigorous assessment The chairman was appointed on a salary of 700,000 per annum.
In reaching any decisions, the Group has sought to take into account the Groups performance against the SUMMARY OF EMOLUMENTS PAID TO DIRECTORS main financial targets where the outcomes were better than expected as 2009 2008 well as the delivery of a number of milestones that are a key part of the 000 000 Groups medium term recovery plan.
It is important to note that 100 per Aggregate emoluments paid to directors 9,900 5,623 cent of the award will be deferred into shares and released in 2012 unless subject to clawback at that time.
Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of share options 2 Extensive work has been undertaken in 2009 and will continue in 2010 Aggregate value of assets receivable under to ensure compliance with the FSA Code of Practice on Remuneration.
long-term incentive schemes The terms of reference of the remuneration committee were revised during 2009 to extend the remit of the committee to include the overall Aggregate company contributions in respect remuneration policy and philosophy for all colleagues, whilst retaining of directors to defined contribution pension direct responsibility for the remuneration for certain colleagues.
schemes 428 207 Divisional remuneration committees were introduced in 2009 to provide Number of directors with retirement benefits a robust framework for decisions on remuneration through the Group.
accruing under: defined contribution schemes 3 3 In 2010, the remuneration package will continue to have the same main elements as for 2009: defined benefit schemes 2 2 Base salary PERFORMANCE GRAPH Annual incentive The graph below illustrates the performance of the Group measured Long-term incentive plan by TSR against a broad equity market index over the past five years.
In addition, executive directors participate in pension arrangements The Group has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 index throughout and receive bene ts such as life assurance and medical insurance.
The following key decisions have been made for 2009 2010 remuneration: TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN FTSE 100 INDEX 2010 base salaries for executive directors will continue to be frozen at 2008 levels 160 At his own request, the group chief executive will not receive any 140 awards under the annual incentive plan for 2009 120 Awards under the annual incentive plan for 2009 for executive directors 100 of between 150 per cent and 185 per cent of salary All awards under the annual incentive plan for 2009 are deferred into 80 shares and subject to clawback, with any awards being released in 2012 60 LTIP award below historic award levels at a maximum of 275 per cent 40 of salary subject to stretching performance conditions based on EPS, 20 economic pro t and the achievement of stretching share price targets.
0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec The package is designed to encourage a long-term and risk-based focus: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Salary is a signi cant proportion of the total package, avoiding Lloyds Banking Group plc Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2004 excessive leverage FTSE 100 Index Source: Bloomberg All incentives will be paid on a deferred basis at the end of three years 20 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Winfried Bischoff Lord Leitch Dr Wolfgang C G Berndt Sir Julian Horn-Smith Chairman Deputy Chairman Independent Director Independent Director Senior Independent Director Chairman of the nomination and governance Member of the audit, nomination and Member of the nomination and governance Member of the nomination and governance, committee and a member of the governance, and remuneration committees committee and chairman of the remuneration and risk oversight committees remuneration and risk oversight committees and chairman of the risk oversight committee remuneration committee Joined the board in 2005.
Held a number of senior and general management Joined the board and was appointed chairman Joined the board in 2005 and was appointed Joined the board in 2003.
Previously chairman deputy chairman in May 2009.
Appointed and Gamble in 1967 and held a number appointments in Vodafone from 1984 to 2006 including a directorship of that of Citigroup Inc. from December 2007 to chairman of Scottish Widows in 2007.
Held a of senior and general management February 2009.
He joined J Henry Schroder number of senior and general management appointments in Europe, South America company from 1996, group chief operating officer from 2001 and deputy chief executive & Co in January 1966 and became managing appointments in Allied Dunbar, Eagle Star and North America, before retiring in 2001. director of Schroders Asia in 1971, group and Threadneedle Asset Management A non-executive director of Cadbury, GfK officer from 2005.
Previously held positions in Philips from 1978 to 1982 and Mars GB chief executive of Schroders Plc in 1984 and before the merger of Zurich Group and AG and MIBA AG.
Following the acquisition British American Tobaccos financial services from 1982 to 1984.
A non-executive director of fide La Rue, Digicel Group and of Schroders investment banking business businesses in 1998.
Subsequently served by Citigroup in 2000 became chairman of as chairman and chief executive officer of Emobile Japan, a director of Sky Malta, a member of the Altimo International Citigroup Europe before being appointed Zurich Financial Services United Kingdom, acting chief executive officer of Citigroup Ireland, Southern Africa and Asia Pacific, advisory board and a senior advisor to UBS and CVC Capital Partners in relation in 2007 and subsequently as chairman in until his retirement in 2004.
Chairman of the the same year.
A non-executive director of Governments Review of Skills published to the global telecommunications sector.
Pro vice-chancellor of University of Bath.
Eli Lilly and Company, and The McGraw in December 2006 and deputy chairman Hill Companies Inc. in the United States, of the Commonwealth Education Fund.
A former chairman of The Sage Group.
Aged 61. and chairman of the UK Career Academy Chairman of BUPA and Intrinsic Financial Foundation.
A member of the Akbank Services and a non-executive director International advisory board.
Former chairman of the National Employment Panel.
T Timothy Ryan, Jr Martin A Scicluna Anthony Watson CBE Independent Director In dependent Director Inde pendent Director Member of the audit and risk oversight Chairman of the audit committee and a Member of the audit and risk oversight committees member of the risk oversight committee committees Joined the board on 1 March 2009.
President Joined the board in September 2008.
Joined the board on 2 April 2009.
Previously and chief executive of the Securities Chairman of Deloitte UK from 1995 to 2007 chief executive of Hermes Pensions Industry and Financial Markets Association.
and a member of the board from 1991 to Management.
Held a number of senior Held a number of senior appointments 2007.
Joined the firm in 1973 and was a appointments in AMP Asset Management in JP Morgan Chase from 1993 to 2008 partner from 1982 until he retired in 2008. from 1991 to 1998.
A non-executive director including vice chairman, financial institutions A member of the board of directors of of Hammerson, Vodafone and Witan and governments, from 2005.
A director Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu from 1999 to Investment Trust, a member of the Norges of the US-Japan Foundation, Great-West 2007.
Chairman of Great Portland Estates.
Bank Investment Management advisory Life Annuity Insurance Co. and Putnam A member of the council of Leeds University board and chairman of Marks and Spencer Investments and a member of the Global and a governor of Berkhamsted School.
Pension Trust, Asian Infrastructure Fund and Markets Advisory Committee for the Aged 59.
A former chairman of MEPC and of the Strategic director in the Office of Thrift Supervision, Investment Board Northern Ireland and a US Department of the Treasury and Koram former member of the Financial Reporting Bank and the International Foundation of Council.
21 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS APPOINTMENTS FROM 1 MARCH 2010 Glen R Moreno Senior Independent Director Chairman of the risk oversight committee J Eric Daniels Archie G Kane G Truett Tate and a member of the remuneration committee Group Chief Executive Group Executive Director Insurance Group Executive Director Board Representative for Scotland Wholesale Chairman of Pearson, the media group, since October 2005.
He is a director of Joined the board in 2001 as group executive Joined the group in 2003 as managing Joined the group in 1986 and held a Fidelity International, one of the worlds director, UK retail banking before his number of senior and general management director, corporate banking before being largest fund management companies, and appointment as group chief executive in appointed to the board in 2004.
Served with appointments before being appointed to the chairman of its audit committee.
Served with Citibank from 1975 board in 2000, as group executive director, IT Citigroup from 1972 to 1999, where he held a 1987 to 1991 he was chief executive of and held a number of senior and general number of senior and general management and operations.
Appointed group executive Fidelity International.
Until mid 2009, he management appointments in the USA, director, insurance and investments in appointments in the USA, South America, was a non-executive director and senior South America and Europe before becoming Asia and Europe.
He was president and chief October 2003.
After some 10 years in the independent director of Man Group, the chief operating officer of Citibank Consumer accountancy profession, joined General executive officer of eCharge Corporation FTSE 100 financial services group, and acting Bank in 1998.
Following the Citibank Travelers from 1999 to 2001 and co-founder and Telephone & Electronics Corporation in chairman of UKFI.
He was a group executive merger in 1998, he was chairman and 1980, serving as finance director in the vice chairman of the board of Chase Cost at Citigroup: from 1969 to 1987 he held a chief executive officer of Travelers Life and Management Inc from 1996 to 2003.
Chairman of the number of senior positions at the bank in Annuity until 2000.
Chairman and chief Association of British Insurers and a non-executive director of BritishAmerican Europe and Asia.
Aged 66. executive officer of Zona Financiera from Business Inc. Chairman of Arora Holdings member of The Takeover Panel.
A non-executive director of and a director of Business in the Community BT Group.
Aged 58. and a director and trustee of In Kind Direct.
Independent Director Member of the audit and remuneration committees Executive director, member of the group executive committee and chief executive, International Retail and Commercial Banking at Barclays until December 2006.
He joined Barclays in 1983 and held various senior management positions, including chief executive, Personal Financial Services and chief executive, Business Banking.
He was also a non-executive director of BAA until June 2006 and a non-executive director of Absa Group Limited, one of South Africas largest financial services groups, until October 2006.
From 2007 to 2009 he was also the chairman and chief executive of BAWAG P. S. K. AG, the second largest retail bank in Austria.
He is currently a member Tim J W Tookey Helen A Weir CBE Harry F Baines of the strategy board for Henley Business School, non-executive chairman of The Group Finance Director Group Executive Director Retail Company Secretary Mind Gym and a non-executive director of Campion Willcocks.
Join ed the group in 2006 as deputy group Joined the board in 2004 as group finance finance director, before being appointed director.
Appointed as group executive acting group finance director in April 2008. director, UK retail banking in April 2008.
Appointed to the board in October 2008 as Group finance director of Kingfisher from group finance director.
Previously finance director director for the UK and Europe at Prudential of B&Q, having joined that company in from 2002 to 2006 and group finance director 1995 from McKinsey & Co where she was of Heath Lambert Group from 1996 to 2002. a senior manager.
Began her career at Prior to that, he spent 11 years at KPMG.
Member of the Financial Services Aged 47.
Practitioner Panel and the Said Business School Advisory Board.
Chair of the British Bankers Association Retail Committee.
A former member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
22 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2009 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This annual review, including the summary financial statements The annual general meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Thursday 6 May contained within, does not provide suf cient information to allow 2010 at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre.
as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Lloyds Banking Group as would be provided by the full report and This document contains forward looking statements with respect to accounts.
Shareholders who would like more detailed information may the business, strategy and plans of Lloyds Banking Group, its current obtain a copy of the full report and accounts, and also elect to receive all goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and future report and accounts, by contacting our registrars, Equiniti Limited performance.
Statements that are not historical facts, including on 0871 384 2990.
The report and accounts is also available on our statements about the Groups or the Groups managements beliefs and website, www.
com expectations, are forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward SHARE PRICE INFORMATION looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate In addition to listings in the financial pages of the press, the latest price to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
of Lloyds Banking Group shares on the London Stock Exchange can be The Groups actual future results may differ materially from the results obtained by telephoning 09058 890 190. expressed or implied in these forward looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including, without limitation, UK domestic and global Visit www.
economic and business conditions, the ability to derive cost savings and other bene ts as well as to mitigate exposures from the acquisition and SHARE DEALING FACILITIES integration of HBOS, risks concerning borrower credit quality, market A full range of dealing services is available as follows: related trends and developments, changing demographic trends, Internet dealing.
com changes in customer preferences, changes to regulation, the policies Telephone dealing.
Call 0845 606 0560 and actions of Governmental and regulatory authorities in the UK or Internet and telephone dealing services are available between jurisdictions outside the UK, including other European countries and the 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
US, exposure to regulatory scrutiny, legal proceedings or complaints, competition and other factors.
Please refer to the rights issue prospectus Details of any dealing costs are available when you log on to the share issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc on 3 November 2009 for a dealing website or when you call the above number.
discussion of such factors together with examples of forward looking INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISAs statements.
The forward looking statements contained in this document are made as at the date of this document, and the Group undertakes no The Company provides a facility for investing in Lloyds Banking Group obligation to update any of its forward looking statements.
For details contact: Retail Investor Operations, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, HEAD OFFICE West Sussex BN99 6DA.
25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 The Companys share register and the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Account formerly the HBOS Shareholder Account are REGISTERED OFFICE maintained by Equiniti Limited.
Contact them if you have enquiries The Mound, Edinburgh EH1 1YZ about your Lloyds Banking Group shareholding, including those Registered in Scotland no 95000 concerning the following matters: INTERNET Change of name or address www.
com Loss of share certi cate Dividend information, including loss of dividend warrant or tax REGISTRAR voucher.
Equiniti Limited Equiniti operates a web based enquiry and portfolio management Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA service for you to receive shareholder communications electronically.
Telephone 0871 384 2990 In addition, you can change your address or bank details and register Textphone 0871 384 2255 proxy appointments and voting instructions on your shareholding online.
com CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Calls to 09058 and 0871 numbers are charged at 55p and 8p per minute, respectively, from a BT landline.
The price of calls from mobiles and other networks may vary.
The call prices we A copy of the Groups corporate responsibility report may be obtained have quoted were correct in February 2010. by writing to Corporate Responsibility, Lloyds Banking Group plc, 25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN.
This information together with the Groups code of business conduct is also available on the Groups website www.
com AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS ADRs Lloyds Banking Group shares are traded in the USA through an NYSE-listed sponsored ADR facility, with The Bank of New York Mellon as the depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol LYG.
The CUSIP number is 539439109 and the ratio of ADRs to ordinary shares is 1:4.
For details contact: The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15252-8516.
Telephone: 877-353-1154 US toll free, international callers: 1 201-680-6825.
com or email shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
Front cover photography Carol Walker www.
com Directors portraits Clive Arrowsmith & Marcus Ginns Other photography Corbis Printed in the UK by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, on material which contains a minimum of 50% post consumer waste: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 14001 ocial partner of the Environmental Management systems standards and both are Forest Stewardship Council certi ed.
