262 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GLOSSARY Asset-Backed Securities Asset-Backed Securities are securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The referenced pool can comprise any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages but could also include leases, credit card receivables, motor vehicles, student loans.
Further information on the Groups investments in ABS is given in Note 54.
Alt-A Alt-A is defined as loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but they share higher risk characteristics than lending under normal criteria.
Further information on the Groups exposure to Alt-A investments is given in note 54.
Arrears A customer is in arrears when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
Asset-backed commercial paper See Commercial Paper Collateralised Debt Obligations Collateralised Debt Obligations are securities issued by a third party which reference Asset-Backed Securities ABSs and or certain other related assets purchased by the issuer.
Lloyds Banking Group has not established any programmes creating CDOs but has invested in instruments issued by other banking groups.
These are primarily CLOs, CBOs, CREs and CDOs.
Details of these investments are given in note 54.
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities are securities that represent interests in a pool of commercial Securities CMBS mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
Further information on the Groups investment in CMBS is given in note 54.
Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate includes of ce buildings, industrial property, medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
Conduits A financial vehicle that holds asset-backed securities which are nanced with short-term loans generally commercial paper that use the asset-backed securities as collateral.
The conduit will often have a liquidity lines provided by a bank that it can draw down on in the event that it is unable to issue funding to the market.
The Group sponsors three asset-backed conduits, Cancara, Grampian and Landale.
Further details are provided in note 22.
Contractual maturities Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan or other financial instrument, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
Covered mortgage bonds A bond backed by a pool of mortgage loans.
The mortgages remain on the issuers balance sheet.
The issuing bank can change the make-up of the loan pool or the terms of the loans to preserve credit quality.
Covered bonds thus have a higher risk weighting than mortgage-backed securities because the holder is exposed to both the non-payment of the mortgages and the financial health of the issuer.
The Group issues covered bonds as part of its funding activities note 21.
Commercial Paper Commercial paper is an unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term credit needs.
It speci es the face amount paid to investors on the maturity date.
Commercial Paper can be issued as an unsecured obligation of the Group, or for example when issued by the Groups conduits as an asset-backed obligation in such case it is referred to as asset-backed commercial paper.
Commercial Paper is usually issued for periods from as little as a week up to nine months.
Credit Default Swaps A credit default swap is also referred to as a credit derivative.
It is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a fide ned credit event.
Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
Credit risk spread or credit The credit spread is the yield spread between securities with the same currency and maturity structure but with spread different associated credit risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens.
It is the premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to take on a lower credit quality.
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities of the Group.
The Group includes certain repos within customer deposits.
Debt restructuring This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash ow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering the repayment schedule as well as reducing the debt or interest charged on the loan.
Delinquency A debt or other financial obligation is considered to be in a state of delinquency when payments are overdue.
First Second Lien A first lien gives the holder usually the bank lending the funds the first right to collect compensation from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a default on the loan.
A second lien may be issued against the same collateral but in the case of default, compensation for this debt will only be received after the first lien has been repaid.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 263 263 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Gr Lloyds Banking Group oup company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Funded unfunded exposures Exposures where the notional amount of the transaction is either funded or unfunded.
Guaranteed mortgages Mortgages for which there is a guarantor to provide the lender a certain level of financial security in the event of default of the borrower.
Home Loans A loan to purchase a residential property which is then used as collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Impaired loans Impaired loans are loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash ows or to collect them when they are contractually due.
Impairment allowances Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet as a result of the raising of a charge against pro t for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
An impairment allowance may either be individual or collective.
Individually Collectively Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually signi cant, and collectively where a portfolio Assessed comprises homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
Liquidity and Credit Credit enhancement facilities are used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover enhancements losses due to asset default.
Two general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan guarantees such as guaranteed mortgages and self-enhancement through  in the case of covered bonds.
Liquidity enhancement makes funds available if required, for other reasons than asset default, eg to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
Loan-to-value ratio The loan-to-value ratio is a mathematical calculation which expresses the amount of a mortgage balance outstanding as a percentage of the total appraised value of the property.
A high LTV indicates that there is less value to protect the lender against house price falls or increases in the loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding balance of the loan.
Loans past due Loans are past due when a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Monolines A monoline insurer is fide ned as an entity which specialises in providing credit protection to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default by the debt security counterparty.
This protection is typically provided in the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps referencing the underlying exposures held.
Mortgage related assets Assets which are referenced to underlying mortgages.
Mortgage vintage The year the mortgage was issued.
Medium Term Notes Medium term notes are a form of corporate borrowing covering maturity periods ranging from nine months to 30 years.
Details of the notes issued under the Groups medium term notes programmes are given in note 35.
Negative basis bonds ABS held with a separately purchased matching credit default swaps to protect against the risk of default of the security.
The Group refers to ABS without the bene t of CDS protection as Uncovered ABS.
Details of the Groups exposure to negative basis bonds is given in note 54.
Negative Equity Mortgages Negative equity occurs when the value of the property purchased using the mortgage is below the balance outstanding on the loan.
Negative equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan.
Net Interest Income The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
Prime Prime mortgages are those granted to the most creditworthy category of borrower.
Private equity investments Private equity is equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Investment in private equity often involves the investment of capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in the delisting of public equity.
Capital for private equity investment is raised by retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Renegotiated loans Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue and will be impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the asset.
In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which is treated as a new loan.
Repurchase agreements Short-term funding agreements which allow a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as ABS or Government or repos bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of the agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some later date, usually less than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
Retail Loans Money loaned to individuals rather than institutions.
These include both secured and unsecured loans such as mortgages and credit card balances.
264 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GLOSSARY continued Residential Mortgaged-Backed Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities are a category of ABS.
They are securities that represent interests Securities in a group of residential mortgages.
Securitisation Securitisation is a process by which a group of assets, usually loans, are aggregated into a pool, which is used to back the issuance of new securities.
Securitisation is the process by which ABS are created.
A company sells assets to an special purpose entity which then issues securities backed by the assets.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be separated from the credit rating of the original company and transfers risk to external investors.
Assets used in securitisations include mortgages to create mortgage-backed securities or residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS as well as commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Group has established several securitisation structures as part of its funding and capital management activities.
These generally use mortgages, corporate loans and credit cards as asset pools.
A listing of these programmes with the amounts secured and associated funding raised is given in note 22.
Special Purpose Entities SPEs SPEs are entities that are created to accomplish a narrow and well fide ned objective.
There are often speci c restrictions or limits around their ongoing activities.
The Group uses a number of SPEs, including those set-up under securitisation programmes, and as conduits.
Where the Group has control of these entities or retains the risks and rewards relating to them they are consolidated within the Groups results.
Student loan related assets Assets which are referenced to underlying student loans.
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Details of the Groups subordinated liabilities are set out in note 44.
Sub-Prime Sub-prime is fide ned as loans to borrowers typically having weakened credit histories that include payment delinquencies and potentially more severe problems such as court judgements and bankruptcies.
They may also display reduced repayment capacity as measured by credit scores, high debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
Uncovered ABS ABS held without the bene t of separately purchased matching credit default swaps to protect against the risk of default of the security.
Details of the Groups uncovered ABS are given in note 54.
Value at Risk Value at Risk is an estimate of the potential loss in earnings which might arise from market movements under normal market conditions, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, measured to a con dence level of 95 per cent.
Wrapped loans and bonds If a loan or bond usually an ABS security is originally issued with a credit default swap already attached, the package is called a wrapped bond or wrapped loan.
The Groups exposure to wrapped loans and bonds is set out in note 54.
Write Downs The depreciation or lowering of the value of an asset in the books to re ect a decline in their value, or expected cash ows.
