OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 133 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements of Lloyds Banking Group plc prior to 16 January 2009 known as Lloyds TSB Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS comprises accounting standards prefixed IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and those prefixed IAS issued by the IASBs predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
The EU endorsed version of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relaxes some of the hedge accounting requirements: the Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation, and therefore there is no difference in application to the Group between IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available-for-sale financial assets, trading securities and certain other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and all derivative contracts.
As stated on page 104, the directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
To provide a more relevant presentation of the Groups financial instruments, additional line items have been added to the consolidated balance sheet to show debt securities classified as loans and receivables separately.
Comparatives have been reclassified to conform to the revised presentation.
The following IFRS pronouncements relevant to the Group have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements: i IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense that is non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
Entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The financial statements have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements: the application of this revised standard, which affects presentation only, has not had any impact on amounts recognised in these financial statements.
ii Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations.
This amendment to IFRS 2 restricts the definition of vesting condition to a condition that includes an explicit or implicit requirement to provide services.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions, which have to be taken into account to determine the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In the case that the award does not vest as the result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either the entity or the counterparty, this must be accounted for as a cancellation.
The main impact of this amendment for the Group arises from cancellations by employees of contributions to the Groups Save-As-You-Earn SAYE schemes: in the event of a cancellation the Group must recognise immediately the amount of the expense that would have otherwise been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
Under the former IFRS 2, such cancellations would have resulted in the reversal of the costs recognised in current and prior periods in respect of the SAYE schemes concerned for the relevant employees.
The amendment is applied retrospectively and has resulted in a restatement of the 2008 comparatives.
The effect has been to increase operating expenses and reduce profit before tax by 43 million in 2009 2008: 47 million but has had no effect on the Groups balance sheet or shareholders equity as the increased expense is offset by movements in retained profits.
iii Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments.
The amendments require enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of a three level fair value measurement hierarchy for financial instruments carried on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
As the amendments only result in additional disclosures, the amendments have not had any impact on amounts recognised in these financial statements.
This new standard replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires reporting of financial and descriptive information about operating segments which are based on how financial information is reported and evaluated internally.
The segment information for the year ended 31 December 2009 and for the corresponding comparative period is presented in note 4.
The application of this new standard, which affects disclosures only, has not had any impact for amounts recognised in these financial statements.
The application of the following IFRS pronouncements which all became effective in 2009 has had no material impact on these financial statements: Amendments to IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
This amendment clarifies that a reassessment of embedded derivatives is required whenever a financial asset has been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
This interpretation addresses accounting by entities who grant customer loyalty award credits to customers as part of sales transactions and which can be redeemed in the future for free or discounted goods or services.
The majority of customer loyalty award schemes are operated by third parties.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for hedges of net investments in foreign operations in an entitys consolidated financial statements.
This revised standard requires interest and other costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds to be recognised as an expense excepting that those which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale must be capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation.
The amendments require some puttable financial instruments being those which give the holder the right to put the instrument back to the issuer for cash or another financial asset and some financial instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as equity.
134 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued I mprovements to IFRSs issued May 2008.
Sets out minor amendments to IFRS standards as part of annual improvements process.
Most amendments clarified existing practice.
Details of those IFRS pronouncements which will be relevant to the Group but which were not effective at 31 December 2009 and which have not been applied in preparing these financial statements are given in note 56.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Groups accounting policies are set out below.
A CONSOLIDATION The assets, liabilities and results of Group undertakings including special purpose entities are included in the financial statements on the basis of accounts made up to the reporting date.
Group undertakings include subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
1 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries include entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies which generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group: they are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 9 to the parent company financial statements.
Investment vehicles, such as Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs, where the Group has control, typically through acting as fund manager and the life funds having a beneficial interest greater than 50 per cent, are consolidated.
The minority unitholders interest is reported in other liabilities.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the income statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
2 Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control under a contractual arrangement with other parties.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity and is normally achieved through holding between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting share capital of the entity.
The Group utilises the venture capital exemption for investments where significant influence or joint control is present and the business unit operates as a venture capital business.
These investments are designated at initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss.
Otherwise, the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recorded at cost and adjusted each year to reflect the Groups share of the post-acquisition results of the joint venture or associate based on audited accounts which are coterminous with the Group or made up to a date which is not more than three months before the Groups reporting date.
The share of any losses is restricted to a level that reflects an obligation to fund such losses.
B GOODWILL Goodwill arises on business combinations, including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates: goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is tested at least annually for impairment.
If an impairment is identified the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the Groups investment in joint ventures and associates.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 135 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued C OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets include brands, core deposit intangibles, purchased credit card relationships, customer-related intangibles and capitalised software enhancements.
Intangible assets which have been determined to have a finite useful life are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life as follows: Capitalised software enhancements up to 5 years Brands which have been assessed as having finite lives 10-15 years Customer-related intangibles up to 10 years Core deposit intangibles up to 8 years Purchased credit card relationships 5 years Intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date to assess whether there is any indication that they are impaired.
If any such indication exists the recoverable amount of the asset is determined and in the event that the assets carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount, it is written down immediately.
Certain brands have been determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not amortised.
Such intangible assets are reassessed annually to reconfirm that an indefinite useful life remains appropriate.
In the event that an indefinite life is inappropriate a finite life is determined and an impairment review is performed on the asset.
D REVENUE RECOGNITION Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement for all interest-bearing financial instruments, except for those classified at fair value through profit or loss, using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the financial instrument.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
The effective interest rate is calculated on initial recognition of the financial asset or liability by estimating the future cash flows after considering all the contractual terms of the instrument but not future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts expected to be paid or received by the Group including expected early redemption fees and related penalties and premiums and discounts that are an integral part of the overall return.
Direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument are also taken into account in the calculation.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss see accounting policy 2 H. Fees and commissions which are not an integral part of the effective interest rate are generally recognised when the service has been provided.
Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan once drawn.
Where it is unlikely that loan commitments will be drawn, loan commitment fees are recognised over the life of the facility.
Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the Group retains no part of the loan package for itself or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for all interest-bearing financial instruments, including loans and advances, as for the other participants.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Revenue recognition policies specific to life insurance and general insurance business are detailed below see accounting policy 2 O. E FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading liabilities and other financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition which are held at fair value.
Purchases and sales of securities and other financial assets and liabilities are recognised on trade date, being the date that the Group is committed to purchase or sell an asset.
1 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss where they are trading securities or where they are designated at fair value through profit or loss by management.
Derivatives are carried at fair value see accounting policy 2 F. Trading securities are debt securities and equity shares acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or which are part of a portfolio which is managed for short-term gains.
Such securities are classified as trading securities and recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur.
136 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such by management upon initial recognition.
Such assets and liabilities are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated at fair value through profit or loss on acquisition in the following circumstances: it eliminates or significantly reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring the assets and liabilities or recognising gains or losses on different bases.
The main type of financial assets designated by the Group at fair value through profit or loss are assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts issued by the Groups life insurance businesses.
Fair value designation allows changes in the fair value of these assets to be recorded in the income statement along with the changes in the value of the associated liabilities, thereby significantly reducing the measurement inconsistency had the assets been classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
the assets and liabilities are part of a group which is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, with management information also prepared on this basis.
As noted in accounting policy 2 A 2, certain of the Groups investments are managed as venture capital investments and evaluated on the basis of their fair value and these assets are designated at fair value through profit or loss.
where the assets and liabilities contain one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows arising under the contract and would otherwise need to be separately accounted for.
The fair values of assets and liabilities traded in active markets are based on current bid and offer prices respectively.
If the market is not active the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Refer to note 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements: Valuation of financial instruments and note 53 3 Financial instruments: Fair values of financial assets and liabilities for details of valuation techniques and significant inputs to valuation models.
The Group is permitted to reclassify, at fair value at the date of transfer, non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition out of the trading category if they are no longer held for the purpose of being sold or repurchased in the near term, as follows: if the financial assets would have met the definition of loans and receivables but for the fact that they had to be classified as held for trading at initial recognition, they may be reclassified into loans and receivables where the Group has the intention and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity: if the financial assets would not have met the definition of loans and receivables, they may be reclassified out of the held for trading category into available-for-sale financial assets in rare circumstances.
2 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities and equity shares that are not classified as trading securities, at fair value through profit or loss or as loans and receivables are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value, inclusive of transaction costs.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those intended to be held for an indeterminate period of time and may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the financial asset is either sold, becomes impaired or matures, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
Interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
The Group is permitted to transfer, at fair value at the date of transfer, a financial asset from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category where that asset would have met the definition of loans and receivables at the time of reclassification if the financial asset had not been designated as available-for-sale and where there is both the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future.
For assets transferred, gains or losses recognised in equity in respect of these assets as at the date of transfer are amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the asset using the effective interest method.
3 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables include loans and advances to banks and customers and eligible assets including those transferred into this category out of the fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale financial assets categories.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers at fair value inclusive of transaction costs or, for eligible assets transferred into this category, their fair value at the date of transfer.
Financial assets classified as loans and receivables are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest method see accounting policy 2 D less provision for impairment see accounting policy 2 H. The Group has entered into securitisation and similar transactions to finance certain loans and advances to customers.
These loans and advances to customers continue to be recognised by the Group, together with a corresponding liability for the funding.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 137 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 4 Borrowings Borrowings which include deposits from banks, customer deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
These instruments are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Preference shares and other instruments which carry a mandatory coupon or are redeemable on a specific date are classified as financial liabilities.
The coupon on these instruments is recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
An exchange of financial liabilities on substantially different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability extinguished and the new financial liability is recognised in profit or loss together with any related costs or fees incurred.
When a financial liability is exchanged for an equity instrument, the new equity instrument is recognised at fair value and any difference between the original carrying value of the liability and the fair value of the new equity is recognised in the profit or loss together with any related costs or fees incurred.
5 Sale and repurchase agreements Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos continue to be recognised on the balance sheet where substantially all of the risks and rewards are retained.
Funds received under these arrangements are included in deposits from banks, customer deposits, or trading liabilities.
Conversely, securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos, where the Group does not acquire substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership, are recorded as loans and receivables or trading securities.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
6 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from those assets has expired or when the Group has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the assets and either: substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or the Group has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has transferred control.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished ie when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expire.
F DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING All derivatives are recognised at their fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and option pricing models, as appropriate.
Derivatives are carried in the balance sheet as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that is not part of a hedging relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in financial instruments and insurance contracts unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, a policyholders option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount is not treated as an embedded derivative.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the derivatives depends on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedge accounting allows one financial instrument, generally a derivative such as a swap, to be designated as a hedge of another financial instrument such as a loan or deposit or a portfolio of the same.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, formal documentation is drawn up specifying the hedging strategy, the hedged item and the hedging instrument and the methodology that will be used to measure the effectiveness of the hedge relationship in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged risk.
The effectiveness of the hedging relationship is tested both at inception and throughout its life and if at any point it is concluded that it is no longer highly effective in achieving its documented objective, hedge accounting is discontinued.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of the particular risks inherent in recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges : 2 hedges of highly probable future cash flows attributable to recognised assets or liabilities cash flow hedges : or 3 hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
These are accounted for as follows: 138 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1 Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk: this also applies if the hedged asset is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are no longer recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative adjustment that has been made to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest method over the period to maturity.
2 Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
3 Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The hedging instrument in net investments hedges may include non-derivative liabilities as well as derivative financial instruments.
G OFFSET Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right of set-off and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In certain situations, even though master netting agreements exist, the lack of management intention to settle on a net basis results in the financial assets and liabilities being reported gross on the balance sheet.
H IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 1 Assets accounted for at amortised cost At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether, as a result of one or more events occurring after initial recognition and prior to the balance sheet date, there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets has become impaired.
The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss include: Delinquency in contractual payments of principal and or interest: Indications that the borrower or group of borrowers is experiencing significant financial difficulty: Restructuring of debt to reduce the burden on the borrower: Breach of loan covenants or conditions: and Initiation of bankruptcy or individual voluntary arrangement proceedings.
For impaired debt instruments which are classified as loans and receivables, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows.
A reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment.
The estimated period between a loss occurring and its identification is determined by local management for each identified portfolio.
In general, the periods used vary between two months and twelve months.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, an allowance is established which is calculated as the difference between the balance sheet carrying value of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at that assets original effective interest rate.
If an asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate used for measuring the impairment loss is the current effective interest rate.
For the Groups portfolios of smaller balance homogenous loans, such as the residential mortgage, personal lending and credit card portfolios, allowances are calculated for groups of assets taking into account historical cash flow experience.
For the Groups other lending portfolios, allowances are established on a case-by-case basis.
The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralised asset or group of assets reflects the cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
If there is no objective evidence of individual impairment the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assessed for impairment.
Segmentation takes into account such factors as the type of asset, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets as they are indicative of the borrowers ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
Future cash OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 139 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued flows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows of the assets in the Group and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly by the Group to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, such as an improvement in the borrowers credit rating, the allowance is adjusted and the amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
A loan or advance is normally written off, either partially or in full, against the related allowance when the proceeds from realising any available security have been received or there is no realistic prospect of recovery as a result of the customers insolvency, ceasing to trade or other reason and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of impairment losses recorded in the income statement.
Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans in order to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan and an acquisition of equity securities.
Where control is obtained over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated: where the Group has significant influence over an entity as a result of the transaction, the investment is accounted for by the equity method of accounting see accounting policy 2 A.
Any subsequent impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an impairment of the original instrument.
2 Available-for-sale financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired.
In addition to the criteria for financial assets accounted for at amortised cost set out above, this assessment involves reviewing the current financial circumstances including creditworthiness and future prospects of the issuer assessing the future cash flows expected to be realised and, in the case of equity shares, considering whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
If an impairment loss has been incurred, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised, is reclassified from equity to the income statement.
For impaired debt instruments, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows: a reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, an amount not greater than the original impairment loss is credited to the income statement: any excess is taken to other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
I INVESTMENT PROPERTY Investment property comprises freehold and long leasehold land and buildings that are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
The Groups investment property primarily relates to property held for long-term rental yields and capital appreciation within the life insurance funds.
Investment property is carried in the balance sheet at fair value, being the open market value as determined in accordance with the guidance published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash flow projections or recent prices.
These valuations are reviewed at least annually by an independent valuation expert.
Investment property being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be measured at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement as net trading income for investment property within the life insurance funds and as other operating income for other investment property.
J TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Tangible fixed assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The value of land included in premises is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between the cost and the residual value over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Premises excluding land : Freehold long and short leasehold premises: shorter of 50 years or the remaining period of the lease Leasehold improvements: shorter of 10 years or, if lease renewal is not likely, the remaining period of the lease Equipment: Fixtures and furnishings: 10-20 years Other equipment and motor vehicles: 2-8 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
140 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued K LEASES 1 As lessee The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
When an operating lease is terminated before the end of the lease period, any payment made to the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period of termination.
2 As lessor Assets leased to customers are classified as finance leases if the lease agreements transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee but not necessarily legal title.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual value, is recognised as a receivable, net of provisions, within loans and advances to banks and customers.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance lease income.
Finance lease income is recognised in interest income over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
Unguaranteed residual values are reviewed regularly to identify any impairment.
Operating lease assets are included within tangible fixed assets at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which equates to the lives of the leases, after taking into account anticipated residual values.
Operating lease rental income is recognised on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
The Group evaluates non-lease arrangements such as outsourcing and similar contracts to determine if they contain a lease which is then accounted for separately.
L PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of post-retirement benefit schemes for its employees including both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions: there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups principal defined benefit schemes are carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years: these valuations are updated to 31 December each year by qualified independent actuaries, or in the case of the Scottish Widows Retirement Benefits Scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by Scottish Widows.
For the purposes of these annual updates scheme assets are included at their fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses.
The defined benefit scheme liabilities are discounted using rates equivalent to the market yields at the balance sheet date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Groups income statement charge includes the current service cost of providing pension benefits, the expected return on the schemes assets, net of expected administration costs, and the interest cost on the schemes liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are not recognised unless the cumulative unrecognised gain or loss at the end of the previous reporting period exceeds the greater of 10 per cent of the scheme assets or liabilities the corridor approach.
In these circumstances the excess is charged or credited to the income statement over the employees expected average remaining working lives.
Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement, unless the charges are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Groups balance sheet includes the net surplus or deficit, being the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the discounted value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date adjusted for any cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses.
Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The Group recognises the effect of material changes to the terms of its defined benefit pension plans which reduce future benefits as curtailments: gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the curtailments occur.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 141 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued M SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The value of the employee services received in exchange for equity instruments granted under these plans is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the instruments, with a corresponding increase in equity.
This expense is determined by reference to the fair value of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments at the date of grant is estimated using an appropriate valuation technique, such as a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The determination of fair values excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, which are included in the assumptions used to estimate the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, this estimate is reassessed and if necessary revised.
Any revision of the original estimate is recognised in the income statement over the remaining vesting period, together with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Cancellations by employees of contributions to the Groups Save As You Earn plans are treated as non-vesting conditions and in accordance with the revised IFRS 2 the Group recognises, in the year of cancellation, the amount of the expense that would have otherwise been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
Modifications are assessed at the date of modification and any incremental charges are charged to the income statement over any remaining vesting period.
N TAXATION Current income tax which is payable on taxable profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
For the Groups long-term insurance businesses, the tax charge is analysed between tax that is payable in respect of policyholders returns and tax that is payable on equity holders returns.
This allocation is based on an assessment of the rates of tax which will be applied to the returns under current UK tax rules.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Income tax payable on profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which those profits arise.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax related to gains and losses on the fair value re-measurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges, where these gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Such deferred tax is subsequently transferred to the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss.
Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
O INSURANCE The Group undertakes both life insurance and general insurance business.
Products sold by the life insurance business are classified into three categories: Insurance contracts these contracts transfer significant insurance risk and may also transfer financial risk.
The Group defines significant insurance risk as the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event which are significantly more than the benefits payable if the insured event were not to occur.
These contracts may or may not include discretionary participation features.
Investment contracts containing a discretionary participation feature participating investment contracts these contracts do not transfer significant insurance risk, but contain a contractual right which entitles the holder to receive, in addition to the guaranteed benefits, further additional discretionary benefits or bonuses that are likely to be a significant proportion of the total contractual benefits and the amount and timing of which is at the discretion of the Group and based upon the performance of specified assets.
Non-participating investment contracts these contracts do not transfer significant insurance risk or contain a discretionary participation feature.
The general insurance business issues only insurance contracts.
1 Life insurance business i ACCOUNTING FOR INSURANCE AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS Premiums and claims Premiums received in respect of insurance and participating investment contracts are recognised as revenue when due except for unit-linked contracts on which premiums are recognised as revenue when received.
Claims are recorded as an expense on the earlier of the maturity date or the date on which the claim is notified.
142 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Liabilities Insurance and participating investment contracts in the Groups with-pro t funds Liabilities of the Groups with-profit funds, including guarantees and options embedded within products written by these funds, are stated at their realistic values in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys realistic capital regime, except that projected transfers out of the funds into other Group funds are recorded in unallocated surplus see below.
Further details on the realistic capital regime are given on page 89.
Changes in the value of these liabilities are recognised through insurance claims.
Insurance and participating investment contracts which are not unit-linked or in the Groups with-pro t funds A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised.
The liability is calculated by estimating the future cash flows over the duration of in-force policies and discounting them back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence.
The liability will vary with movements in interest rates and with the cost of life insurance and annuity benefits where future mortality is uncertain.
Assumptions are made in respect of all material factors affecting future cash flows, including future interest rates, mortality and costs.
Changes in the value of these liabilities are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Insurance and participating investment contracts which are unit-linked Liabilities for unit-linked insurance contracts and participating investment contracts are stated at the bid value of units plus, an additional allowance where appropriate such as for any excess of future expenses over charges.
The liability is increased or reduced by the change in the unit prices and is reduced by policy administration fees, mortality and surrender charges and any withdrawals.
Changes in the value of the liability are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Benefit claims in excess of the account balances incurred in the period are also charged through insurance claims.
Revenue consists of fees deducted for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges.
Unallocated surplus Any amounts in the with-profit funds not yet determined as being due to policyholders or shareholders are recognised as an unallocated surplus which is shown separately from liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
ii ACCOUNTING FOR NON-PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS The Groups non-participating investment contracts are primarily unit-linked.
These contracts are accounted for as financial liabilities whose value is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the Groups unitised investment funds.
The value of the unit-linked financial liabilities is determined using current unit prices multiplied by the number of units attributed to the contract holders at the balance sheet date.
Their value is never less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the required notice period where applicable.
Investment income allocated to non-participating investment contracts are included in insurance claims.
Deposits and withdrawals are not accounted for through the income statement but are accounted for directly in the balance sheet as adjustments to the non-participating investment contract liability.
The Group receives investment management fees in the form of an initial adjustment or charge to the amount invested.
These fees are in respect of services rendered in conjunction with the issue and management of investment contracts where the Group actively manages the consideration received from its customers to fund a return that is based on the investment profile that the customer selected on origination of the contract.
These services comprise an indeterminate number of acts over the lives of the individual contracts and, therefore, the Group defers these fees and recognises them over the estimated lives of the contracts, in line with the provision of investment management services.
Costs which are directly attributable and incremental to securing new non-participating investment contracts are deferred.
This asset is subsequently amortised over the period of the provision of investment management services and is reviewed for impairment in circumstances where its carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If the asset is greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately through fee and commission expense in the income statement.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
iii VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS The Group recognises as an asset the value of in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The asset represents the present value of the shareholders interest in the profits expected to emerge from those contracts written at the balance sheet date.
This is determined after making appropriate assumptions about future economic and operating conditions such as future mortality and persistency rates and includes allowances for both non-market risk and for the realistic value of financial options and guarantees.
Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
The asset in the consolidated balance sheet is presented gross of attributable tax and movements in the asset are reflected within other operating income in the income statement.
The Groups contractual rights to benefits from providing investment management services in relation to non-participating investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The resulting asset is amortised over the estimated lives of the contracts.
At each reporting date an assessment is made to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income statement.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 143 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2 General insurance business The Group both underwrites and acts as intermediary in the sale of general insurance products.
Underwriting premiums are included in insurance premium income, net of refunds, in the period in which insurance cover is provided to the customer: premiums received relating to future periods are deferred in the balance sheet within liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts and only credited to the income statement when earned.
Broking commission is recognised when the underwriter accepts the risk of providing insurance cover to the customer.
Where appropriate, provision is made for the effect of future policy terminations based upon past experience.
The underwriting business makes provision for the estimated cost of claims notified but not settled and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
The provision for the cost of claims notified but not settled is based upon a best estimate of the cost of settling the outstanding claims after taking into account all known facts.
In those cases where there is insufficient information to determine the required provision, statistical techniques are used which take into account the cost of claims that have recently been settled and make assumptions about the future development of the outstanding cases.
Similar statistical techniques are used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
Claims liabilities are not discounted.
3 Liability adequacy test At each balance sheet date liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of insurance and participating investment contract liabilities net of related deferred cost assets and value of in-force business.
In performing these tests current best estimates of discounted future contractual cash flows and claims handling and policy administration expenses, as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement, initially by writing off the relevant assets and subsequently by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests.
4 Reinsurance Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of short-term balances due from reinsurers as well as longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured contracts.
Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract and are regularly reviewed for impairment.
Premiums payable for reinsurance contracts are recognised as an expense when due within insurance premium income.
Changes in the reinsurance recoverable assets are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
P FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow or net investment hedges.
Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Translation differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held at fair value through profit and loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets, such as equity shares, are included in the fair value reserve in equity unless the asset is a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
The results and financial position of all group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of equity together with exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments see accounting policy 2 F 3.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of exchange differences relating to that foreign operation are reclassified from equity and included in determining the profit or loss arising on disposal.
144 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Q PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised in respect of present obligations arising from past events where it is probable that outflows of resources will be required to settle the obligations and they can be reliably estimated.
The Group recognises provisions in respect of vacant leasehold property where the unavoidable costs of the present obligations exceed anticipated rental income.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence depends on the outcome of uncertain future events or those present obligations where the outflows of resources are uncertain or cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless they are remote.
R SHARE CAPITAL 1 Share issue costs Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options or to the acquisition of a business are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
2 Dividends Dividends paid on the Groups ordinary shares are recognised as a reduction in equity in the period in which they are paid.
3 Treasury shares Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
S CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and non-mandatory balances with central banks and amounts due from banks with a maturity of less than three months.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The preparation of the Groups financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in applying the accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The significant judgements made by management in applying the Groups accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty in these financial statements, which together are deemed critical to the Groups results and financial position, are discussed below.
ALLOWANCE FOR IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND RECEIVABLES The Groups accounting policy for losses arising on financial assets classified as loans and receivables is described in note 2 H 1.
The allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the balance sheet date.
Impairment allowances are established to recognise incurred impairment losses in the Groups loan portfolios carried at amortised cost.
In determining whether an impairment has occurred at the balance sheet date the Group considers whether there is any observable data indicating that there has been a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows or their timings.
Where this is the case, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate.
At 31 December 2009 gross loans and receivables totalled 710,362 million 2008: 287,220 million against which impairment allowances of 15,380 million 2008: 3,727 million had been made see note 24.
Impairment allowances are made up of two components, those determined individually and those determined collectively.
Individual component All impaired loans which exceed a certain threshold, principally within the Groups Wholesale division, are individually assessed for impairment having regard to expected future cash flows including those that could arise from the realisation of security.
The determination of these allowances often requires the exercise of considerable judgement by management involving matters such as local economic conditions and the resulting trading performance of the customer and the value of the security held, for which there may not be a readily accessible market.
In particular, significant judgement is required by management in the current economic environment in assessing the borrowers cash flows and debt servicing capability together with the realisable value of commercial real estate collateral.
The actual amount of the future cash flows and their timing may differ significantly from the assumptions made for the purposes of determining the impairment allowances and consequently these allowances can be subject to variation as time progresses and the circumstances of the customer become clearer.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 145 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS continued Collective component Impairment allowances for portfolios of smaller balance homogenous loans, such as residential mortgages, personal loans and credit card balances that are below the individual assessment thresholds, and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the balance sheet date, are determined on a collective basis.
Collective impairment allowances are calculated on a portfolio basis using models which take into account factors such as historical experience of accounts progression through the various stages of delinquency, historical loss rates, the credit quality of the portfolio, and the value of any collateral held, which is estimated, where appropriate, using indices such as house price indices.
The calculation of the collective impairment allowance is therefore subject to estimation uncertainty.
The variables used in the collective impairment models are kept under regular review to ensure that as far as possible they reflect current economic circumstances.
However, significant management judgement is applied in assessing whether current economic conditions and borrowers behaviour are fully reflected in the historical loss data and other inputs to the impairment models.
The collective impairment allowance is sensitive to changes in economic and credit conditions, including the interdependency of house prices, unemployment rates, interest rates, borrowers behaviour, and consumer bankruptcy trends.
It is, however, inherently difficult to estimate how changes in one or more of these factors might impact the collective impairment allowance.
Given the relative size of the Groups mortgage portfolio, a key variable is UK house prices which determine the collateral value supporting loans in such portfolios.
The value of this collateral is estimated by applying changes in house price indices to the original assessed value of the property.
If average house prices within the Groups mortgage portfolio were 10 per cent lower than those estimated at 31 December 2009, the house price index related impact on the impairment charge would be an increase of approximately 350 million.
In the Wholesale division, the collective unimpaired provision is sensitive to the time between the loss event and the date the impairment is recognised.
This is known as the loss emergence period LEP.
If the LEP moved by one month in respect of the loan portfolio assessed for collective unimpaired provisions, this would result in an increase in the collective unimpaired provision of approximately 420 million.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IMPAIRMENT OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS In determining whether an impairment loss has been incurred in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset, the Group performs an objective review of the current financial circumstances and future prospects of the issuer and, in the case of equity shares, considers whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of that asset below its cost.
This consideration requires management judgement.
Among factors considered by the Group is whether the decline in fair value is a result of a change in the quality of the asset or a downward movement in the market as a whole.
An assessment is performed of the future cash flows expected to be realised from the asset, taking into account, where appropriate, the quality of underlying security and credit protection available.
The increase in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets during the year was 2,234 million 2008: reduction of 2,721 million.
Impairment losses in respect of available-for-sale financial assets transferred from reserves to the income statement totalled 602 million 2008: 130 million.
VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments classified by management as trading and other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets are carried at fair value which is determined as being the amount for which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Management judgement is required in determining the appropriate classification of financial instruments.
In 2009, the Group adopted Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments which, among other matters, established a three level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements of financial instruments carried on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
Management judgement is required in determining the categorisation of the Groups financial instruments that are carried at fair value.
Financial instruments categorised as level 1 are valued using quoted market prices and therefore there is less judgement applied in determining fair value.
However, the fair value of financial instruments categorised as level 2 and level 3 is determined using valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis and valuation models.
These require management judgement and therefore contain significant estimation uncertainty note 53.
In particular significant judgement is required by management in determining appropriate assumptions to be used for level 3 financial instruments.
At 31 December 2009, the Group classified 7,460 million of financial assets and 235 million of financial liabilities as level 3 note 53.
The largest asset class classified as level 3 is the Groups venture capital and unlisted equity investments.
Venture capital investments are valued using International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Guidelines which require significant management judgement in determining appropriate earnings multiples to be applied in determining fair value.
Unlisted equity investments are valued using a number of different techniques which require management to select the most appropriate assumptions, including earnings multiples, valuations relative to net assets, and estimated future cash flows.
Certain of the Groups asset-backed securities and derivatives, principally where there is no trading activity in such securities, are also classified as level 3.
Fair value is determined using valuation models which require significant judgement in determining appropriate values for inputs including prepayment rates, probability of default, loss given default and yield curves.
The valuation techniques used are set out in note 53 on page 224.
This provides details of the inputs into valuation models that have the potential to significantly impact the value determined, sets out the assumptions used for those inputs and provides the effects of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions.
146 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS continued TAXATION At 31 December 2009 the Group carried deferred tax assets on its balance sheet of 5,006 million 2008: 833 million and deferred tax liabilities of 209 million 2008: nil note 42.
This statutory presentation takes into account the ability of the Group to net deferred tax assets and liabilities only where there is a legally enforceable right of offset.
Note 42 also presents the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities by tax category.
The largest category of deferred tax asset which contains significant estimation uncertainty and which requires management judgement in assessing its recoverability relates to tax losses carried forward.
At 31 December 2009, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of 5,925 million 2008 856 million in respect of tax losses carried forward.
The significant increase reflects the taxable losses generated by certain Group companies, primarily Bank of Scotland plc in the last two years and Lloyds TSB Bank plc during 2009.
Applicable accounting standards permit the recognition of deferred tax assets only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available to utilise the tax losses carried forward.
The assessment of future taxable profits involves significant estimation uncertainty, principally relating to an assessment of managements projections of future taxable income based on business plans and ongoing tax planning strategies.
These projections include assumptions about the future strategy of the Group, the economic and regulatory environment in which the Group operates, future tax legislation, customer behaviour, and the ability of the Group to deliver expected integration benefits, amongst other variables.
At 31 December 2009, management has concluded that future taxable profits generated by the Group companies with tax losses carried forward are expected to be sufficient to utilise the tax losses carried forward in full.
At 31 December 2009 the Group carried an asset for current tax recoverable of 680 million 2008: 300 million and current tax liabilities of 51 million 2008: nil.
In determining the carrying value of these balances, management have taken account of tax issues that are subject to ongoing discussion with HM Revenue & Customs and other tax authorities.
Inherent in this is managements assessment of legal and professional advice, case law and other relevant guidance.
The determination of the outcome of such matters requires significant management judgement in assessing the various risks and applying appropriate probability weightings in determining the carrying value of current and deferred tax balances.
PENSIONS The net liability recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2009 in respect of the Groups retirement benefit obligations was 780 million 2008: 1,771 million of which 619 million 2008: 1,657 million related to defined benefit pension schemes.
As explained in note 2 L, the Group adopts the corridor approach to pensions accounting and consequently does not recognise actuarial losses of 2,936 million 2008: 267 million.
The defined benefit pension schemes gross deficit totalled 3,555 million 2008: 1,924 million representing the difference between the schemes liabilities and the fair value of the related assets at the balance sheet date.
The schemes liabilities are calculated using the projected unit credit method, which takes into account projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the scheme liabilities.
The resulting estimated cash flows are discounted at a rate equivalent to the market yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds with a similar duration and currency to the schemes liabilities.
In order to estimate the future cash flows, a number of financial and non-financial assumptions are made by management, changes to which could have a material impact upon the overall deficit or the net cost recognised in the income statement.
Two important assumptions are the rate of inflation and the expected lifetime of the schemes members.
The assumed rate of inflation affects the rate at which salaries are projected to grow and therefore the size of the pension that employees receive upon retirement and also the rate at which pensions in payment increase.
Over the longer term rates of inflation can vary significantly.
At 31 December 2009 it was assumed that the rate of inflation would be 3.4 per cent per annum 2008: 3.0 per cent, although if this was increased by 0.2 per cent the overall deficit would increase by approximately 795 million and the annual cost by approximately 69 million.
A reduction of 0.2 per cent would reduce the overall deficit by approximately 763 million and the annual cost by approximately 60 million.
The cost of the benefits payable by the schemes will also depend upon the longevity of the members.
Assumptions are made regarding the expected lifetime of scheme members based upon recent experience, however given the rate of advance in medical science and increasing levels of obesity, it is uncertain whether they will ultimately reflect actual experience.
Assumptions used by management reflect recent longevity experience and extrapolate the improving trend.
An increase of one year in the expected lifetime of scheme members would increase the overall deficit by approximately 590 million and the annual cost by approximately 79 million: a reduction of one year would reduce the overall deficit by approximately 603 million and the annual cost by approximately 76 million.
The size of the overall deficit is also sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore potentially subject to significant variations.
At 31 December 2009 the discount rate used was 5.7 per cent 2008: 6.3 per cent : a reduction of 0.2 per cent would increase the overall deficit by approximately 985 million and the annual cost by approximately 82 million, while an increase of 0.2 per cent would reduce the net deficit by approximately 937 million and the annual cost by approximately 68 million.
FAIR VALUE OF IDENTIFIABLE NET ASSETS OF HBOS The acquisition of the HBOS Group in January 2009 was accounted for in accordance with applicable accounting standards which require the recognition of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
As part of this process, it is also necessary to identify and recognise certain assets and liabilities which are not included on the acquirees balance sheet, for example the value of the internally generated brands and other intangible assets.
The exercise to fair value the HBOS Group balance sheet was inherently highly subjective and required management to make a number of assumptions and estimates.
The overall effect was to reduce the book value of the assets acquired by 11,975 million, after the recognition of brands OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 147 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS continued and other intangibles not previously included on the HBOS Group balance sheet totalling 4,650 million.
This was offset by a reduction in the value of the HBOS Groups liabilities of 13,216 million, resulting in a net increase in the value of the net assets acquired of 1,241 million note 14.
The fair value adjustments to the HBOS Groups assets principally reflect a reduction of 13,512 million in the value of customer lending.
For a significant proportion of these balances there was no active market and therefore in determining the acquisition-date fair values discounted cash flow models have been used.
The calculations were performed using benchmark interest rates and market-based credit spreads for the different lending portfolios, having regard to managements view of the level of expected credit losses.
The size of the adjustment reflects the market-wide reduction in interest rates since the lending was originated and a deterioration in the credit quality of the portfolio in the worsening economic environment.
The reduction in the value of the HBOS Groups liabilities was largely due to the lower values attributed to debt instruments issued by HBOS, for example commercial paper, medium-term notes and subordinated debt.
In many cases market prices were available to value these instruments and the lower fair values reflect market concern in January 2009 over the creditworthiness of HBOS.
During 2009, the effects of the fair value adjustments have started to unwind and be recognised in the Groups income statement.
The determination of the extent to which the adjustments unwind often requires significant judgement principally relating to the assessment of the extent to which losses incurred subsequent to the date of acquisition were expected and consequently reflected in the fair value adjustment made to write down the value of the lending.
In the period since the acquisition impairment losses of 6,859 million have been incurred which were reflected in the acquisition fair value adjustments.
GOODWILL At 31 December 2009 the Group carried goodwill on its balance sheet totalling 2,016 million 2008: 2,256 million, all of which relates to acquisitions made a number of years ago.
The Group reviews the goodwill for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate that impairment may have taken place.
The impairment review is performed by projecting future cash flows, excluding finance and tax, based upon budgets and plans and making appropriate assumptions about rates of growth and discounting these using a rate that takes into account prevailing market interest rates and the risks inherent in the business.
If the present value of the projected cash flows is less than the carrying value of the underlying net assets and related goodwill an impairment charge is required in the income statement.
This calculation requires the exercise of significant judgement by management: if the estimates made prove to be incorrect or performance does not meet expectations which affects the amount and timing of future cash flows, goodwill may become impaired in future periods.
Further details are given in note 27.
The Groups goodwill is allocated to cash generating units in the Insurance division Scottish Widows and in the Asset Finance business in the Wholesale division.
Goodwill attributable to the Groups Asset Finance business, for which an impairment charge was recognised in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008, has been reviewed for impairment due to the continuing uncertainties over the short-term macroeconomic environment.
As a consequence, the carrying value of the consumer finance cash generating unit within Asset Finance has been reassessed and has resulted in the related element of the goodwill being written off and the Group recognising a further impairment charge of 240 million in the year ended 31 December 2009.
LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS The Group carries in its balance sheet a value in-force asset, representing the present value of future profits expected to arise from the portfolio of in-force life insurance and participating investment contracts, of 5,140 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 1,893 million.
The Group also recognises an acquired value in-force asset of 1,545 million at 31 December 2009 2008: nil representing contractual rights to benefits from providing investment management services in relation to non-participating investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers.
The methodology used to value these assets is set out in note 2 O 1.
The valuation or recoverability of these assets requires assumptions to be made about future economic and operating conditions.
These assumptions are inherently uncertain and changes could significantly affect the value attributed to these assets.
At 31 December 2009 the Group carried substantial liabilities to holders of life, pensions and investment contracts in its balance sheet.
Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts were 56,800 million and 18,089 million respectively 2008: 21,518 million and 11,619 million and those arising from non-participating investment contracts totalled 46,348 million 2008: 14,243 million.
The methodology used to value the liabilities is described in note 2 O 1.
Elements of the liability valuations require assumptions to be made about future investment returns, future mortality rates and future policyholder behaviour.
The process for determining key assumptions that have been made for life insurance assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009 is detailed in notes 28 and 36.
The impact on profit before tax of changes in key assumptions is detailed in note 37.
GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS At 31 December 2009 the Group held a provision of 502 million 2008: 183 million in respect of the estimated cost of claims notified but not settled and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
The methodology for valuing these liabilities, which includes the use of statistical techniques, is described in note 2 O 2.
While management believes that the liability carried at year end is adequate, the application of statistical techniques requires significant judgement.
An increase of 10 per cent in the cost of claims would result in the recognition of an additional loss of approximately 48 million.
Similarly, an increase of 10 per cent in the ultimate number of such claims would lead to an additional loss of approximately 44 million: some relief would arise from reinsurance contracts held.
148 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Group is a leading financial services group, whose businesses provide a wide range of banking and financial services in the UK and in certain locations overseas.
The group executive committee has been determined to be the chief operating decision maker for the Group.
The Groups operating segments reflect its organisational and management structures.
The group executive committee reviews the Groups internal reporting based around these segments in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
This assessment includes a consideration of each segments net interest revenue and consequently the total interest income and expense for all reportable segments is presented on a net basis.
The segments are differentiated by the type of products provided, by whether the customers are individuals or corporate entities and by the geographical location of the customer.
During 2009, following the acquisition of HBOS, the Groups activities were reorganised into four financial reporting segments: Retail, Wholesale, Wealth and International and Insurance.
Consequently, the comparative information has been restated to be consistent with the reorganised structure of the Group.
The segmental results and comparatives are presented on the basis reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in 2009 and therefore include the pre-acquisition results of HBOS for 2008 and for the period from 1 January 2009 to 16 January 2009.
The Retail division, with its brands including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, Birmingham Midshires and Cheltenham & Gloucester, is a UK provider of current accounts, savings, personal loans, credit cards and mortgages serving over 30 million customers through a large branch network in the UK.
The division is also a general insurance and bancassurance distributor selling a wide range of long-term savings, investment and general insurance products.
The Wholesale division serves in excess of a million businesses ranging from start-ups and small enterprises to global corporations, with a range of propositions fully segmented according to customer need.
The enlarged division, following the acquisition of HBOS, comprises Corporate Markets, Treasury and Trading and Asset Finance.
Corporate Markets comprises Corporate, Commercial, Corporate Real Estate, Specialist Finance and Wholesale Markets.
Wealth and International was created to give increased focus and momentum to the Groups private banking and asset management activities and to closely co-ordinate the management of its international businesses.
Wealth comprises the Groups private banking, wealth and asset management businesses in the UK and overseas.
International comprises corporate, commercial, asset finance and retail businesses in Australia, Ireland and continental Europe.
The Insurance division is a bancassurance provider in the UK providing a wide range of long-term savings, investment and protection products, together with individual and corporate pensions.
It is also a distributor of payment protection and home insurance in the UK.
The division consists of three business units: life, pensions and investments UK: life, pensions and investments Europe: and general insurance.
Other includes the results of managing the Groups technology platforms, branch and head office property estate, operations including payments, banking operations and collections and procurement services, the costs of which are predominantly recharged to the other divisions.
It also reflects other items not recharged to the divisions, including hedge ineffectiveness.
The improvement in revenue of 1,376 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily reflects gains arising on the extinguishment of certain existing liabilities in 2009.
Inter-segment services are generally recharged at cost, with the exception of the internal commission arrangements between the UK branch and other distribution networks and the insurance product manufacturing businesses within the Group, where a profit margin is also charged.
Inter-segment lending and deposits are generally entered into at market rates, except that non-interest bearing balances are priced at a rate that reflects the external yield that could be earned on such funds.
For those derivative contracts entered into by business units for risk management purposes, the business unit retains the amount that would have been recognised on an accrual accounting basis an amount equal to the interest element of the next payment on the swap and transfers the remainder of the fair value of the swap to the central group segment where the resulting accounting volatility is managed though the establishment of hedge accounting relationships.
Any change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk is also recorded within the central group segment.
This allocation of the fair value of the swap and change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk avoids accounting asymmetry in segmental results and records volatility in the central group segment where it is managed.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 149 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Wealth and Reported basis Retail Wholesale International Insurance Other total m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2009 Net interest income 7,970 4,710 1,217 287 884 12,726 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,804 4,199 1,128 2,944 1,800 11,875 Total income 9,774 8,909 2,345 2,657 916 24,601 Insurance claims 637 637 Total income, net of insurance claims 9,774 8,909 2,345 2,020 916 23,964 Operating expenses 4,566 4,106 1,544 974 419 11,609 Trading surplus 5,208 4,803 801 1,046 497 12,355 Impairment 4,227 15,683 4,078 23,988 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 6 720 21 22 2 767 Profit loss before tax and fair value unwind 975 11,600 3,298 1,024 499 12,400 Fair value unwind 407 6,897 942 49 2,097 6,100 Profit loss before tax 1,382 4,703 2,356 975 1,598 6,300 External revenue 14,221 5,965 2,859 3,780 2,224 24,601 Inter-segment revenue 4,447 2,944 514 1,123 3,140 Segment revenue 9,774 8,909 2,345 2,657 916 24,601 Segment external assets 383,588 394,057 94,051 135,814 19,745 1,027,255 Segment customer deposits 224,149 153,389 29,037 166 406,741 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: Depreciation and amortisation 196 1,284 84 152 147 1,863 Movement in value of in-force business 5 1,097 1,092 Defined benefit scheme charges 190 112 40 39 156 537 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 65 2,969 53 255 487 3,829 Investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 30 189 123 14 151 479 150 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Wealth and Reported basis Retail Wholesale International Insurance Other total m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2008 Net interest income 8,454 5,752 1,314 345 272 14,903 Other income net of fee and commission expense 2,739 302 1,191 3,493 188 6,933 Total income 11,193 5,450 2,505 3,148 460 21,836 Insurance claims 481 481 Total income, net of insurance claims 11,193 5,450 2,505 2,667 460 21,355 Operating expenses 4,963 4,591 1,476 1,129 77 12,236 Trading surplus fide cit 6,230 859 1,029 1,538 537 9,119 Impairment 3,695 10,394 731 60 14,880 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 7 944 21 2 4 952 Profit loss before tax 2,542 10,479 277 1,540 593 6,713 External revenue 15,228 150 1,883 6,020 1,145 21,836 Inter-segment revenue 4,035 5,600 622 2,872 685 Segment revenue 11,193 5,450 2,505 3,148 460 21,836 Segment external assets 393,827 517,269 86,394 127,249 1,979 1,126,718 Segment customer deposits 216,282 157,941 34,095 844 409,162 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: Depreciation and amortisation 197 1,603 71 80 343 2,294 Movement in value of in-force business 625 625 Defined benefit scheme charges 163 106 31 36 1 335 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 127 2,241 254 411 735 3,768 Investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 78 1,032 117 38 50 1,239 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 151 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED BASIS TO STATUTORY RESULTS The reported basis is the basis on which financial information is presented to the chief operating decision maker which excludes certain items included in the statutory results.
The table below reconciles the statutory results to the reported basis.
Lloyds Removal of: Banking Group Pre-acquisition Acquisition Insurance Fair value Reported 1 statutory results of HBOS related Volatility gross up unwind basis m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2009 Net interest income 9,026 243 11 1,280 2,166 12,726 Other income 36,271 1,123 479 21,659 1,135 11,875 Total income 45,297 880 468 20,379 1,031 24,601 Insurance claims 22,019 1,349 20,318 285 637 Total income, net of insurance claims 23,278 469 468 61 746 23,964 Operating expenses 15,984 293 4,589 61 18 11,609 Trading surplus deficit 7,294 176 4,589 468 764 12,355 Impairment 16,673 456 6,859 23,988 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 752 10 5 767 Gain on acquisition 11,173 11,173 Fair value unwind 6,100 6,100 Profit loss before tax 1,042 280 6,584 478 6,300 1 Includes gain on acquisition, integration costs, amortisation of purchased intangibles and goodwill impairment.
Removal of: Amortisation of purchased Results of intangibles Statutory HBOS ReclassifiBankWest and and goodwill Insurance Reported 1 basis statutory cations St. Andrews Volatility impairments gross up basis m m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2008 Net interest income 7,718 8,171 1,906 524 9 2,359 14,903 Other income 709 4,559 234 148 2,358 10,225 6,933 Total income 7,009 3,612 1,672 672 2,349 7,866 21,836 Insurance claims 2,859 6,192 1,570 7,962 481 Total income, net of insurance claims 9,868 9,804 102 672 2,349 96 21,355 Operating expenses 6,100 6,880 400 258 86 12,236 Trading surplus deficit 3,768 2,924 102 272 2,349 258 10 9,119 Impairment 3,012 12,050 182 14,880 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 4 956 952 Non-operating income 56 56 Loss on disposal 799 46 845 Profit loss before tax 760 10,825 755 2,349 258 10 6,713 As at 31 December 2008 Lloyds TSB Statutory HBOS Reclassifiand HBOS Fair value Consolidation Reported 2 basis statutory cations share issues adjustments adjustments basis m m m m m m m Assets 436,033 689,917 15,198 16,770 11,975 19,225 1,126,718 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised 2 Includes 4,500 million of ordinary share capital and 1,000 million of preference shares issued by Lloyds TSB Group plc to HM Treasury on 13 January 2009 and 15 January 2009, respectively and 8,500 million of ordinary share capital and 3,000 million of preference shares issued by HBOS plc to HM Treasury on 15 January 2009 net of costs.
152 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS The Groups activities are focused in the UK and the analyses of income and assets below are based on the location of the branch or entity recording the income or assets.
UK Non-UK Total 2009 m m m Total income 42,572 2,725 45,297 Total assets 916,734 110,521 1,027,255 There was no individual non-UK country contributing more than 5 per cent of total income or total assets.
As the activities of the Group were predominantly carried out in the UK prior to the acquisition of HBOS, no comparative geographical analysis is presented.
5 NET INTEREST INCOME Weighted average effective interest rate 2009 2008 2009 2008 % % m m Interest and similar income: Loans and advances to customers 3.58 6.33 24,171 13,808 Loans and advances to banks 1.18 4.74 769 1,847 Debt securities held as loans and receivables 3.68 2.52 1,469 61 Lease and hire purchase receivables 6.01 7.62 852 706 Interest receivable on loans and receivables 3.43 6.11 27,261 16,422 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.78 4.58 977 1,147 Total interest and similar income 3.32 5.98 28,238 17,569 Interest and similar expense: Deposits from banks 0.95 3.65 883 1,540 Customer deposits 1.23 3.27 4,410 4,932 Debt securities in issue 2.56 4.10 6,318 2,227 Subordinated liabilities 10.05 5.82 4,325 896 Liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements 1.95 4.45 1,655 256 Interest payable on liabilities held at amortised cost 2.13 3.67 17,591 9,851 Other 14.92 1,621 Total interest and similar expense 2.30 3.61 19,212 9,851 Net interest income 9,026 7,718 Included within interest receivable is 971 million 2008: 435 million in respect of impaired financial assets.
Net interest income also includes a charge of 121 million 2008: charge of 16 million transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve see note 47.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 153 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 6 NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 2009 2008 m m Fee and commission income: Current accounts 1,088 707 Insurance broking 539 549 Credit and debit card fees 765 581 Trust and other fiduciary fees 395 413 Other 1,467 981 4,254 3,231 Fee and commission expense 1,517 694 Net fee and commission income 2,737 2,537 As discussed in note 2 D, fees and commissions which are an integral part of the effective interest rate form part of net interest income shown in note 5.
Fees and commissions relating to instruments that are held at fair value through profit or loss are included within net trading income shown in note 7.
7 NET TRADING INCOME 2009 2008 m m Foreign exchange translation gains 283 66 Gains on foreign exchange trading transactions 488 75 Total foreign exchange 771 141 Investment property losses note 26 214 1,058 Securities and other gains losses 18,541 8,269 Net trading income 19,098 9,186 Securities and other gains losses comprise net gains losses arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and for trading as follows: 2009 2008 m m Net income expense arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Debt securities, loans and advances 4,297 938 Equity shares 11,475 7,759 Total net income expense arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss 15,772 6,821 Net expense arising on liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities in issue 125 232 Total net gains losses arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 15,647 7,053 Net gains losses on financial instruments held for trading 2,894 1,216 Securities and other gains losses 18,541 8,269 154 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 8 INSURANCE PREMIUM INCOME 2009 2008 m m Life insurance Gross premiums 7,768 4,841 Ceded reinsurance premiums 308 41 Net earned premiums 7,460 4,800 Non-life insurance Gross premiums written 1,390 651 Ceded reinsurance premiums 101 23 Net premiums 1,289 628 Change in provision for unearned premiums note 36 2 171 16 Change in provision for ceded unearned premiums note 36 2 26 Net earned premiums 1,486 612 Total net earned premiums 8,946 5,412 Life insurance gross written premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m Life and pensions 7,070 4,182 Annuities 685 645 Other 13 14 Gross premiums 7,768 4,841 Non-life insurance gross written premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m Credit protection 417 203 Home 968 441 Health 5 7 1,390 651 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 155 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2009 2008 m m Operating lease rental income 1,509 392 Rental income from investment properties note 26 358 209 Other rents receivable 51 32 Gains less losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets note 47 97 19 Movement in value of in-force business note 28 1,169 325 Gain on capital transactions 1,498 Other income 808 201 5,490 528 GAIN ON CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS During 2009, as part of the Groups management of capital, the Group exchanged certain existing subordinated debt securities for new securities as described below.
These exchanges resulted in a gain on extinguishment of the existing liability of 1,498 million, being the difference between the carrying amount of the security extinguished and the fair value of the new security together with related fees and costs.
In the first half of 2009, undated subordinated notes issued by a number of Group companies were exchanged for innovative tier 1 securities and senior unsecured notes issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
These exchanges resulted in a gain of 745 million.
In July 2009, dated and undated subordinated liabilities issued by Clerical Medical Finance plc were exchanged for senior unsecured notes issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc resulting in a gain of 30 million.
In November 2009, as part of the restructuring plan that was a requirement for European Commission approval of state aid received by the Group, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons and dividends on certain of the Groups preference shares and preferred securities for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
This suspension gave rise to a partial extinguishment of the original liability, equivalent to the present value of the suspended cash flows.
During December 2009, as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, preference shares, preferred securities and undated subordinated notes were exchanged for enhanced capital notes.
These exchanges, together with the partial extinguishment of liabilities arising from the suspension of payments of coupons, resulted in a gain of 723 million.
156 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 10 INSURANCE CLAIMS Insurance claims comprise: 2009 2008 m m Life insurance and participating investment contracts Claims and surrenders: Gross 8,010 4,710 Reinsurers share 146 65 7,864 4,645 Change in insurance and participating investment contract liabilities note 36 1 : Change in gross liabilities 5,922 4,332 Change in reinsurers share of liabilities 177 40 5,745 4,372 Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities Change in gross liabilities 7,458 3,041 Change in reinsurers share of liabilities 7,458 3,041 Change in unallocated surplus note 39 318 284 Total life insurance and participating investment contracts 21,385 3,052 Non-life insurance Claims and claims paid: Gross 542 219 Reinsurers share 16 7 526 212 Change in liabilities note 36 2 : Gross 111 24 Reinsurers share 3 5 108 19 Total non-life insurance 634 193 Total insurance claims expense credit 22,019 2,859 Life insurance gross claims can also be analysed as follows: Deaths 637 289 Maturities 2,107 1,888 Surrenders 4,225 1,960 Annuities 710 516 Other 331 57 8,010 4,710 A non-life insurance claims development table is included in note 36.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 157 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 OPERATING EXPENSES 1 2009 2008 m m Staff costs: Salaries 4,369 2,230 Social security costs 383 176 Pensions and other post-retirement benefit schemes note 41 744 235 Restructuring costs 412 14 Other staff costs 767 323 6,675 2,978 Premises and equipment: Rent and rates 569 318 Hire of equipment 20 16 Repairs and maintenance 226 151 Other 341 165 1,156 650 Other expenses: Communications and data processing 668 455 Advertising and promotion 335 194 Professional fees 540 229 Other 1,310 808 2,853 1,686 Depreciation and amortisation: Depreciation of tangible fixed assets note 30 1,716 648 Amortisation of acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts note 28 75 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 29 769 38 2,560 686 Goodwill impairment note 27 240 100 Total operating expenses excluding GAPS fee 13,484 6,100 GAPS fee 2,500 Total operating expenses 15,984 6,100 The average number of persons on a headcount basis employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 UK 125,109 64,355 Overseas 6,891 2,118 132,000 66,473 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised The UK government has published draft legislation which, when enacted, will introduce a bank payroll tax of 50 per cent applicable to discretionary bonuses and other amounts over 25,000 awarded to bank employees in the period 9 December 2009 to 5 April 2010.
The legislation has yet to be finalised and there remain significant uncertainties over aspects of its detailed application and the Group continues to assess its ultimate liability in respect of all of its schemes.
However, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits the Group has provided in full for the estimated cost of the bank payroll tax: the amount is not significant.
158 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 11 OPERATING EXPENSES continued 1 2009 2008 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Companys current year annual report 2.2 1.1 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 18.8 8.5 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 4.2 3.0 Total audit fees 25.2 12.6 Other services audit related fees 5.3 5.3 Total audit and audit related fees 30.5 17.9 Services relating to taxation 1.0 0.5 Other non-audit fees: Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.3 0.4 Other services 8.9 0.7 Total other non-audit fees 9.2 1.1 Total fees payable to the Companys auditors by the Group 40.7 19.5 During the year, the auditors also earned fees payable by entities outside the consolidated Lloyds Banking Group in respect of the following: 1 2009 2008 m m Audits of Group pension schemes 0.3 0.2 Audits of the unconsolidated Open Ended Investment Companies managed by the Group 0.6 0.5 Reviews of the financial position of corporate and other borrowers 19.3 1.4 Acquisition due diligence and other work performed in respect of potential venture capital investments 1.4 1.0 1 The allocation of fees between those payable for the audit of the Companys current year audit and those for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries has been restated.
There is no change in total fees payable.
Other non-audit fees include the costs associated with the Groups preparations for ensuring the HBOS Group complies fully with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by 31 December 2010.
The following types of services are included in the categories listed above: Audit fees: This category includes fees in respect of the audit of the Groups annual financial statements and other services in connection with regulatory filings.
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation relate primarily to the costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit requirements together with the cost of the audit of the Groups Form 20-F filing.
Audit related fees: This category includes fees in respect of services for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the financial statements, for example acting as reporting accountants in respect of prospectuses and circulars required by the UKLA listing rules.
Services relating to taxation: This category includes tax compliance and tax advisory services.
Other non-audit fees: This category includes due diligence relating to corporate finance, including venture capital transactions and other assurance and advisory services.
It is the Groups policy to use the auditors on assignments in cases where their knowledge of the Group means that it is neither efficient nor cost effective to employ another firm of accountants.
Such assignments typically relate to the provision of advice on tax issues, assistance in transactions involving the acquisition and disposal of businesses and accounting advice.
The Group has procedures that are designed to ensure auditor independence, including that fees for audit and non-audit services are approved in advance.
This approval can be obtained either on an individual engagement basis or, for certain types of non-audit services, particularly those of a recurring nature, through the approval of a fee cap covering all engagements of that type provided the fee is below that cap.
All statutory audit work as well as non-audit assignments where the fee is expected to exceed the relevant fee cap must be pre-approved by the audit committee on an individual engagement basis.
On a quarterly basis, the audit committee receives a report detailing all pre-approved services and amounts paid to the auditors for such pre-approved services.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 159 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 IMPAIRMENT 1 2009 2008 m m Impairment losses on loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 3 135 Loans and advances to customers 15,783 2,584 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 248 157 Total impairment losses on loans and receivables note 24 16,028 2,876 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 602 130 Other credit risk provisions note 43 43 6 Total impairment charged to the income statement 16,673 3,012 13 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES The Groups share of results of and investments in joint ventures and associates comprises: Joint ventures Associates Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m Income 708 29 5 16 713 45 Expenses 544 22 96 17 640 39 Impairment 272 114 386 Insurance claims 465 465 Profit loss before tax 573 7 205 1 778 6 Tax 24 2 2 26 2 Share of post-tax results 549 5 203 1 752 4 Current assets 2,754 68 605 89 3,359 157 Non-current assets 4,662 11 1,611 44 6,273 55 Current liabilities 2,175 17 494 86 2,669 103 Non-current liabilities 4,871 7 1,613 47 6,484 54 Share of net assets 370 55 109 479 55 At 1 January 55 50 9 55 59 Adjustment on acquisition 956 219 1,175 Additional investments 140 12 152 Acquisitions 3 60 63 Disposals 199 39 6 238 6 Share of post-tax results 549 5 203 1 752 4 Dividends paid 21 2 21 2 Exchange and other adjustments 15 60 45 At 31 December 370 55 109 479 55 160 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 13 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES continued The Groups unrecognised share of losses of associates for the year is 64 million 2008: nil and of joint ventures is 424 million 2008: nil.
For entities making losses, subsequent profits earned are not recognised until previously unrecognised losses are extinguished.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised profits on a cumulative basis of associates is 64 million 2008: nil and of joint ventures is 424 million 2008: nil.
The Groups principal joint venture investments at 31 December 2009 were: Nature of Type of Statutory accounts Principal area of business shares held Groups interest made up to operations esure Holdings Limited see below Insurance Ordinary 70% 31 December UK Preference 100% Sainsburys Bank plc Banking Ordinary 50% 31 December UK All of the interests in the joint ventures above are incorporated in the UK.
All interests in joint ventures are held by subsidiaries.
Where entities have statutory accounts drawn up to a date other than 31 December management accounts are used when accounting for them by the Group.
Subsequent to the year end, on 11 February 2010 the Group announced the sale of its 70 per cent stake in esure to a management buyout vehicle.
14 GAIN ON ACQUISITION On 16 January 2009, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of HBOS plc, which together with its subsidiaries undertakes banking, insurance and other financial services related activities in the UK and in certain overseas locations.
The table below sets out the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
At the time of the recommended offer for HBOS in September 2008, it had become increasingly difficult for HBOS to raise funds in wholesale markets and their board sought to restore confidence and stability through an agreement to be acquired by Lloyds TSB Group plc announced on 18 September 2008 at the original terms of 0.833 Lloyds TSB Group plc shares for each HBOS share.
However turbulence in the markets continued and the UK Government decided in October 2008 that it would be appropriate for the UK banking sector to increase its level of capitalisation.
As a consequence of the recapitalisation of HBOS and the impact of the deteriorating market conditions the terms of the final agreed offer were revised down to a ratio of 0.605 per HBOS share.
As the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired was greater than the total consideration paid, negative goodwill arises on the acquisition.
The negative goodwill is recognised as Gain on acquisition in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Book value Fair value as at as at 16 January Fair value 16 January 2009 adjustments 2009 m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 2,123 2,123 Items in the course of collection from banks 523 523 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 83,857 83,857 Derivative financial instruments 54,840 808 54,032 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 15,751 43 15,794 Loans and advances to customers 450,351 13,512 436,839 Debt securities 39,819 1,411 38,408 Available-for-sale financial assets 27,151 27,151 Investment properties 3,002 3,002 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,152 23 1,175 Value of in-force business 3,152 561 3,713 Other intangible assets 104 4,650 4,754 Tangible fixed assets 5,721 14 5,707 Current tax recoverable 1,050 1,050 Deferred tax assets 2,556 602 1,954 Other assets 7,601 905 6,696 Total assets 698,753 11,975 686,778 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 161 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 GAIN ON ACQUISITION continued Book value Fair value as at as at 16 January Fair value 16 January 2009 adjustments 2009 m m m Liabilities Deposits from banks 87,731 109 87,840 Customer deposits 223,859 835 224,694 Items in course of transmission to banks 521 521 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 16,360 16,360 Derivative financial instruments 45,798 45,798 Notes in circulation 936 936 Debt securities in issue 191,566 6,247 185,319 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 36,405 282 36,687 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 28,168 13 28,181 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 526 526 Other liabilities 14,732 312 14,420 Retirement benefit obligations 474 832 358 Current tax liabilities 58 58 Deferred tax liabilities 245 142 103 Other provisions 146 606 752 Subordinated liabilities 29,240 9,192 20,048 Total liabilities 675,817 13,216 662,601 Net assets acquired 22,936 1,241 24,177 Fair value of net assets acquired 24,177 Adjust for: 1 Preference shares 3,917 Minority interests 1,300 Adjusted net assets of HBOS acquired 18,960 Consideration of acquisition costs: 2 Issue of 7,776 million ordinary shares of 25p in Lloyds Banking Group plc 7,651 Fees and expenses related to the transaction 136 Total consideration 7,787 Gain on acquisition 11,173 1 On 16 January 2009, the Group cancelled the following HBOS preference share issuances in exchange for preference shares issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc: 6.475 per cent non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each, 6.3673 per cent non-cumulative fixed to floating preference shares of 1 each and 6.0884 per cent non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each.
The fair value of the Lloyds Banking Group preference shares issued is deducted from the net assets acquired for the purposes of calculating the gain arising on acquisition.
2 The calculation of consideration is based on the closing price of Lloyds TSB ordinary shares of 98.4p on 16 January 2009: 12,852 million HBOS shares were exchanged for Lloyds Banking Group shares at a ratio of 0.605 shares per HBOS share.
The post acquisition loss before tax of HBOS plc covering the period from 17 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 which is included in the Group statutory consolidated income statement for the year to 31 December 2009 is 5,613 million.
Had the acquisition date of HBOS plc been 1 January 2009, Lloyds Banking Group consolidated total income would have been 880 million lower at 44,417 million and Lloyds Banking Group consolidated profit before tax would have been 280 million lower at 762 million.
DISPOSAL OF BUSINESS On 12 August 2009, the Group announced the sale of Insight Investment Management Limited, a subsidiary in which the Group held a 100 per cent interest.
The sale completed on 8 November 2009 and resulted in no gain or loss on disposal.
Customer related intangible assets of 170 million that arose on the acquisition of HBOS were included in the disposal note 29.
162 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 15 TAXATION A ANALYSIS OF TAX CREDIT FOR THE YEAR 2009 2008 m m UK corporation tax: Current tax on pro t for the year 227 667 Adjustments in respect of prior years 310 19 537 686 Double taxation relief 10 91 527 595 Foreign tax: Current tax on pro t for the year 221 144 Adjustments in respect of prior years 40 4 181 140 Current tax charge 708 735 Deferred tax note 42 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2,429 625 Adjustments in respect of prior years 190 148 2,619 773 Tax credit 1,911 38 The credit for tax on the profit for 2009 is based on a UK corporation tax rate of 28.0 per cent 2008: 28.5 per cent.
The above income tax credit is made up as follows: 2009 2008 m m Tax charge credit attributable to policyholders 410 461 Shareholder tax credit charge 2,321 423 1,911 38 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 163 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 TAXATION continued Before tax After tax amount Total tax amount m m m Year ended 31 December 2009 Movements in available-for-sale financial assets: Change in fair value 2,234 298 1,936 Transferred to income statement in respect of disposals 97 23 74 Transferred to income statement in respect of impairment 621 168 453 Other transfers to income statement 93 26 67 2,665 417 2,248 Movement in cash flow hedge: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to other comprehensive income 530 148 382 Net gains transferred to the income statement 121 29 92 409 119 290 Currency translation differences 37 182 219 Other comprehensive income for the year 2,219 480 1,739 Before After tax tax amount Total tax amount m m m 1 Year ended 31 December 2008 Movements in available-for-sale financial assets: Change in fair value 2,721 690 2,031 Transferred to income statement in respect of disposals 19 19 Transferred to income statement in respect of impairment 130 28 102 Other transfers to income statement 91 25 66 2,701 687 2,014 Movement in cash flow hedge: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to other comprehensive income 33 9 24 Net gains transferred to the income statement 16 4 12 17 5 12 Currency translation differences 1,304 942 362 Other comprehensive income for the year 4,022 1,634 2,388 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised 164 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 15 TAXATION continued B FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CREDIT FOR THE YEAR A reconciliation of the charge that would result from applying the standard UK corporation tax rate to profit before tax to the tax credit for the year is given below: 1 2009 2008 m m Profit before tax 1,042 760 Tax charge thereon at UK corporation tax rate of 28 per cent 2008: 28.5 per cent 292 217 Factors affecting charge: Goodwill 3,022 28 Disallowed and non-taxable items 447 116 Overseas tax rate differences 352 39 Gains exempted or covered by capital losses 14 27 Policyholder interests 295 330 Tax losses where no deferred tax provided 332 Adjustments in respect of previous years 66 101 Effect of profit loss in joint ventures and associates 211 Other items 4 20 Tax credit on profit on ordinary activities 1,911 38 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 165 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE 1 2009 2008 m m Pro t attributable to equity shareholders basic and diluted 2,827 772 1 2009 2008 million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue basic 37,674 11,581 Adjustment for share options and awards 255 79 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted 37,929 11,660 Basic earnings per share 7.5p 6.7p Diluted earnings per share 7.5p 6.6p 1 Restated, see below Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, which has been calculated after deducting 10 million 2008: 11 million restated ordinary shares representing the Groups holdings of own shares in respect of employee share schemes.
The basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue reflects the issue of 2,597 million ordinary shares on 13 January 2009, the issue of 7,776 million ordinary shares as purchase consideration for the acquisition of 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of HBOS plc on 16 January 2009, the capitalisation issue of 408 million ordinary shares on 11 May 2009, the issue of 10,409 million ordinary shares on 16 June 2009 in respect of a placing and compensatory open offer, the issue of 36,505 million shares in respect of the rights issue on 27 November 2009 and the issue of 108 million ordinary shares on 11 December 2009.
To the extent that such shares contain a bonus element, the average number of shares for 2009 has been adjusted to reflect that bonus element for the full year.
Average shares for 2008 have been adjusted accordingly see below.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares in respect of share options and awards granted to employees.
The number of shares that could have been acquired at the average annual share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards is determined.
This is deducted from the number of shares issuable under such options and awards to leave a residual bonus amount of shares which are added to the weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
In December 2009, as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, the Group entered into an agreement with holders of certain existing liabilities to exchange these for ordinary shares or for cash on 18 February 2010.
The weighted average number of anti-dilutive shares arising from this transaction that have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 294 million at 31 December 2009.
As set out in note 57, on 18 February 2010, the above exchange completed and 3,141 million new ordinary shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc were issued.
The weighted-average number of anti-dilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 393 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 59 million.
166 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE continued EARNINGS PER SHARE RESTATEMENT Pro t attributable to equity shareholders has been restated for the adoption of IFRS 2 Revised as explained in accounting policies see page 133.
The weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue have been restated to reflect the adjustment factor of 1.025 arising from the capitalisation issue on 11 May 2009, the adjustment factor of 1.310 arising from the placing and compensatory open offer on 16 June 2009, and the adjustment factor of 1.502 arising from the rights issue on 27 November 2009.
The impact of these adjustments on the previously published comparatives is as follows: 2008 m Pro t attributable to equity shareholders as published 819 Restatement for IFRS 2 Revised 47 Restated 772 Shares million Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue basic as published 5,742 Restatement for capitalisation issue 144 Restatement for impact of placing and compensatory open offer 1,824 Restatement for rights issue 3,871 Restated 11,581 Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted as published 5,781 Restatement for capitalisation issue 145 Restatement for impact of placing and compensatory open offer 1,837 Restatement for rights issue 3,897 Restated 11,660 17 TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS These assets are comprised as follows: 2009 2008 Other financial Other financial assets at fair assets at fair Trading value through Trading value through assets profit or loss Total assets profit or loss Total m m m m m m Loans and advances to customers 13,579 166 13,745 283 325 608 Loans and advances to banks 4,702 635 5,337 Debt securities: Government securities 2,936 17,025 19,961 38 7,326 7,364 Other public sector securities 6 700 706 1818 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 2,034 2,034 433 433 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 520 520 369 369 Other asset-backed securities 891 1,999 2,890 1,342 1,342 Corporate and other debt securities 3,097 17,571 20,668 536 11,120 11,656 8,964 37,815 46,779 574 20,608 21,182 Equity shares: Listed 55,685 55,685 16,569 16,569 Unlisted 28,465 28,465 6,705 6,705 84,150 84,150 23,274 23,274 27,245 122,766 150,011 857 44,207 45,064 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 167 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS continued Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss represent the following assets designated into that category: i financial assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts of 118,573 million 31 December 2008: 39,899 million which are so designated because the related liabilities either have cash flows that are contractually based on the performance of the assets or are contracts whose measurement takes account of current market conditions and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise: ii loans and advances to customers of 166 million 31 December 2008: 325 million which are economically hedged by interest rate derivatives which are not in hedge accounting relationships and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise if the related derivatives were treated as trading liabilities and the loans and advances were carried at amortised cost: and iii private equity investments of 1,880 million 31 December 2008: 947 million that are managed, and evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and reported to key management personnel on that basis.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2009 of the loans and advances to banks and customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was 166 million 2008: 325 million : the Group does not hold any credit derivatives or other instruments in mitigation of this risk.
There was no significant movement in the fair value of these loans attributable to changes in credit risk which is determined by reference to the publicly available credit ratings of the instruments involved.
The carrying value of assets that are subject to stock lending arrangements was 1,752 million at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: 809 million all of which the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge.
The Groups Wholesale division had exposure to negative basis asset-backed securities of 1,174 million 31 December 2008: 584 million of which 970 million were protected by monoline financial guarantors note 54.
18 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group holds derivatives as part of the following strategies: Customer driven, where derivatives are held as part of the provision of risk management products to Group customers: To manage and hedge the Groups interest rate and foreign exchange risk arising from normal banking business.
The hedge accounting strategy adopted by the Group is to utilise a combination of fair value, cash flow and net investment hedge approaches as described in Note 54: and Derivatives held in policyholders funds as permitted by the investment strategies of those funds, Derivatives are classified as trading except those designated as effective hedging instruments which meet the criteria under IAS39.
Derivatives are held at fair value on the Groups balance sheet.
A description of the methodology used to determine the fair value of derivative financial instruments and the effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for those derivatives valued using unobservable inputs is set out in note 53.
The principal derivatives used by the Group are as follows: Interest rate related contracts include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and options.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange fixed and floating interest payments, based upon interest rates defined in the contract, without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Forward rate agreements are contracts for the payment of the difference between a specified rate of interest and a reference rate, applied to a notional principal amount at a specific date in the future.
An interest rate option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to fix the rate of interest on a future loan or deposit, for a specified period and commencing on a specified future date.
Exchange rate related contracts include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options.
A forward foreign exchange contract is an agreement to buy or sell a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified future date at an agreed rate.
Currency swaps generally involve the exchange of interest payment obligations denominated in different currencies: the exchange of principal can be notional or actual.
A currency option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to sell specified amounts of currency at agreed rates of exchange on or before a specified future date.
Credit derivatives, principally credit default swaps, are used by the Group as part of its trading activity and to manage its own exposure to credit risk.
A credit default swap is a swap in which one counterparty receives a premium at pre-set intervals in consideration for guaranteeing to make a specific payment should a negative credit event take place.
The Group also uses credit default swaps to securitise, in combination with external funding, 6,455 million 2008: 8,360 million of corporate and commercial banking loans.
Equity derivatives are also used by the Group as part of its equity based retail product activity to eliminate the Groups exposure to fluctuations in various international stock exchange indices.
Index-linked equity options are purchased which give the Group the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified amount of equities, or basket of equities, in the form of published indices on or before a specified future date.
168 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments are set out the following table: Contract notional Fair value Fair value amount assets liabilities m m m 31 December 2009 Trading and other Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 149,701 1,675 1,695 Currency swaps 130,954 6,853 1,787 Options purchased 11,130 678 Options written 11,072 431 302,857 9,206 3,913 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 1,092,319 23,799 24,153 Forward rate agreements 840,539 441 400 Options purchased 68,267 1,700 Options written 57,772 1,656 Futures 12,938 2 7 2,071,835 25,942 26,216 Credit derivatives 19,673 1,711 444 Embedded equity conversion feature 1,797 Equity and other contracts 27,391 1,842 1,225 Total derivative assets liabilities trading and other 2,421,756 40,498 31,798 Hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Currency swaps 26,162 635 107 Interest rate swaps 80,085 3,989 985 Options written 628 144 106,875 4,624 1,236 Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges: Interest rate swaps 222,548 4,749 7,285 Futures 5,137 1 3 Currency swaps 8,937 8 144 Options purchased 2,754 4 239,376 4,762 7,432 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Cross currency swaps 2,507 44 19 Total derivative assets liabilities hedging 348,758 9,430 8,687 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 2,770,514 49,928 40,485 The principal amount of the contract does not represent the Groups real exposure to credit risk which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group should the counterparty default.
To reduce credit risk the Group uses a variety of credit enhancement techniques such as netting and collateralisation, where security is provided against the exposure.
Further details are provided in Note 54 3 on page 231.
The embedded equity conversion feature of 1,797 million reflects the value at 31 December 2009 of the equity conversion feature contained in the Enhanced Capital Notes issued by the Group in December 2009 as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from the Government Asset Protection Scheme see note 44.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 169 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Contract notional Fair value Fair value amount assets liabilities m m m 31 December 2008 Trading and other Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 157,572 5,788 4,102 Currency swaps 29,463 4,367 1,463 Options purchased 9,185 714 Options written 10,143 743 206,363 10,869 6,308 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 368,176 11,797 12,639 Forward rate agreements 153,930 405 395 Options purchased 37,175 843 Options written 33,130 627 Futures 587 44 3 592,998 13,089 13,664 Credit derivatives 32,495 4,257 2,670 Equity and other contracts 5,447 234 81 Total derivative assets liabilities trading and other 837,303 28,449 22,723 Hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps including swap options 37,243 434 1,665 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 867 1 91 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Cross currency swaps 6,318 2,413 Total derivative assets liabilities hedging 44,428 435 4,169 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 881,731 28,884 26,892 19 LOANS AND ADVANCES TO BANKS 2009 2008 m m Lending to banks 3,705 3,056 Money market placements with banks 31,805 35,812 Total loans and advances to banks 35,510 38,868 Allowance for impairment losses note 24 149 135 35,361 38,733 The Group holds collateral with a fair value of 4,171 million 31 December 2008: 10,739 million, which it is permitted to sell or repledge, of which 4,171 million 2008: 5,492 million was repledged or sold to third parties for periods not exceeding three months from the transfer.
The Group is obliged to return collateral with a fair value of 4,171 million 2008: 5,492 million.
170 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 20 LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS 2009 2008 m m Agriculture, forestry and fishing 5,130 3,969 Energy and water supply 3,031 2,598 Manufacturing 14,912 12,057 Construction 10,830 3,016 Transport, distribution and hotels 31,820 14,664 Postal and telecommunications 1,662 1,060 Property companies 83,820 23,318 Financial, business and other services 66,923 33,319 Personal: Mortgages 362,667 114,643 Other 42,958 25,318 Lease financing 9,307 4,546 Hire purchase 8,710 5,295 641,770 243,803 Allowance for impairment losses note 24 14,801 3,459 626,969 240,344 The Group holds collateral with a fair value of 1,110 million 31 December 2008: 1,736 million, which it is permitted to sell or repledge, of which 1,102 million 31 December 2008: 366 million was repledged or sold to third parties for periods not exceeding three months from the transfer.
The Group is obliged to return collateral with a fair value of 1,102 million 2008: 366 million.
Loans and advances to customers include finance lease receivables, which may be analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m Gross investment in finance leases, receivable: Not later than 1 year 1,374 541 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 3,577 1,775 Later than 5 years 7,911 5,570 12,862 7,886 Unearned future finance income on finance leases 3,428 3,038 Rentals received in advance 119 128 Commitments for expenditure in respect of equipment to be leased 8 174 Net investment in finance leases 9,307 4,546 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 171 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 20 LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS continued The net investment in finance leases represents amounts recoverable as follows: 2009 2008 m m Not later than 1 year 1,008 328 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 2,403 974 Later than 5 years 5,896 3,244 9,307 4,546 Equipment leased to customers under finance leases primarily relates to structured financing transactions to fund the purchase of aircraft, ships and other large individual value items.
During 2009 and 2008 no contingent rentals in respect of finance leases were recognised in the income statement.
The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment losses is 123 million 2008: 15 million.
The unguaranteed residual values included in finance lease receivables were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Not later than 1 year 4 1 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 46 29 Later than 5 years 5 3 55 33 21 SECURITISATIONS AND COVERED BONDS Loans and advances to customers include balances that have been securitised but not derecognised, including residential mortgages and commercial banking loans, the carrying values of which are set out below together with any related liabilities.
Residential mortgages are not derecognised because the Group remains exposed to the majority of the risk of any default in respect of them: commercial banking loans are not derecognised because the Group has not transferred the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from those loans nor has it assumed a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows from those loans to a third party.
Beneficial interests in certain residential mortgages have been transferred to special purpose entities which issue floating rate debt securities.
Neither the Group nor any entities in the Group are obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the note holders and do not intend to offer such support.
The floating rate note holders only receive payments of interest and principal to the extent that the special purpose entities have received sufficient funds from the transferred mortgages and after certain expenses have been met.
In the event of a deficiency, they have no recourse whatsoever to the Group.
172 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 21 SECURITISATIONS AND COVERED BONDS continued The Groups principal securitisation and covered bond programmes, together with the balances of the advances subject to securitisation and the carrying value of the notes in issue at 31 December, are listed below.
The notes in issue are reported in note 35.
2009 2008 Gross assets Notes Gross assets Notes securitised in issue securitised in issue Securitisation Type of loan m m m m Arkle UK residential mortgages 32,070 18,141 34,293 27,189 1 Ascot Black Commercial loans 1,220 1,434 1 Goodwood Gold Commercial loans 2,932 119 2,909 127 1 Doncaster Gold Commercial loans 831 60 950 48 1 Exeter Blue PFI PPP and project finance loans 877 45 859 48 1 Kelso Corporate loans and revolving credit facilities 595 7 1,158 3 1 Morse Corporate loans and revolving credit facilities 1,050 Coopers Hill UK residential mortgages 11,383 12,000 Highland UK residential mortgages 5,937 6,050 Permanent UK residential mortgages 38,134 30,512 Mound UK residential mortgages 8,603 6,933 Handbridge Personal loans 3,730 2,613 Candide Dutch residential mortgages 4,800 4,663 Prominent Commercial loans 898 787 Chepstow Blue Commercial loans 3,959 4,050 Derby Blue Commercial loans 3,231 3,250 Pendeford UK residential mortgages 11,994 9,039 Balliol UK residential mortgages 12,771 12,819 Brae UK residential mortgages 7,838 9,588 Dakota UK residential mortgages 3,832 3,826 Deva UK residential mortgages 6,691 6,906 Penarth Credit card receivables 5,155 2,699 Tioba UK residential mortgages 2,094 2,249 Trinity UK residential mortgages 11,033 11,466 Wolfhound Irish residential mortgages 6,522 6,585 Bella Trust Series Motor vehicle loans 443 470 Other UK residential mortgages 63 169 187,636 155,046 42,653 27,415 Less held by the Group 117,489 17,365 Total securitisations 37,557 10,050 Covered Bonds Residential Mortgage-Backed Covered Bonds 99,753 76,636 40,608 24,000 Social Housing Loan-Backed Covered Bonds 3,356 2,735 103,109 79,371 40,608 24,000 Less held by the Group 52,060 24,000 Total covered bonds 27,311 Total securitisations and covered bonds 64,868 10,050 1 Securitisations utilising a combination of external funding and credit default swaps.
Cash deposits of 31,480 million 31 December 2008: 1,846 million held by the Group are restricted in use to repayment of the debt securities issued by the securitisation vehicles and other legal obligations.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 173 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 22 SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES In addition to the special purpose entities disclosed in note 21, which are used for securitisation and covered bond programmes, the Group sponsors three asset-backed conduits, Cancara, Grampian and Landale, which invest in debt securities and client receivables.
All the external assets in these conduits are consolidated in the Groups financial statements and are included in the credit market exposures set out in note 54.
The total consolidated exposures in these conduits are set out in the table below: Cancara Grampian Landale Total m m m m At 31 December 2009 Loans and receivables 3,681 3,681 Debt securities: Classified as loans and receivables 15 9,867 698 10,580 Classified as available-for-sale note 25 5,382 5,382 Total debt securities 5,397 9,867 698 15,962 Total assets 9,078 9,867 698 19,643 At 31 December 2008 Loans and receivables 5,905 5,905 Debt securities: Classified as loans and receivables 437 437 Classified as available-for-sale note 25 6,273 6,273 Total debt securities 6,710 6,710 Total assets 12,615 12,615 OTHER SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES 22 SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES During 2009, the Group established Lloyds TSB Pension ABCS No 1 LLP and Lloyds TSB Pension ABCS No 2 LLP and transferred approximately 5 billion of assets, primarily comprising notes in certain of the Groups securitisation programmes, in aggregate to these entities.
The Group transferred interests in the LLPs with a fair value of approximately 1 billion in aggregate to the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 1 and the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 2 entitling these schemes to annual payments of approximately 215 million in aggregate until 31 December 2014 see note 41.
174 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 23 DEBT SECURITIES CLASSIFIED AS LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Debt securities accounted for as loans and receivables comprise: 2009 2008 m m Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 13,322 478 Other asset-backed securities 17,137 540 Corporate and other debt securities 2,623 3,531 33,082 4,549 Allowance for impairment losses see note 24 430 133 32,652 4,416 24 ALLOWANCE FOR IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and Loans and advances to advances Debt customers to banks securities Total m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 2,408 2,408 Exchange and other adjustments 43 43 Advances written off 1,586 24 1,610 Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 112 112 Unwinding of discount 102 102 Charge to the income statement 2,584 135 157 2,876 At 31 December 2008 3,459 135 133 3,727 Exchange and other adjustments 95 17 49 161 Advances written off 4,200 4,200 Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 110 110 Unwinding of discount 446 446 Charge to the income statement 15,783 3 248 16,028 At 31 December 2009 14,801 149 430 15,380 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 175 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 2009 2008 Conduits Other Total Conduits Other Total m m m m m m Debt securities: Government securities 8,669 8,669 868 868 Other public sector securities 31 31 1212 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 1,014 1,014 9,602 9,602 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 3,481 1,300 4,781 3,929 1,771 5,700 Other asset-backed securities 1,901 5,739 7,640 2,344 5,748 8,092 Corporate and other debt securities 19,904 19,904 2,183 2,183 5,382 36,657 42,039 6,273 20,184 26,457 Equity shares: Listed 102 102 33 Unlisted 1,929 1,929 38 38 2,031 2,031 4141 Treasury bills and other bills: Treasury bills and similar securities 2,532 2,532 2,402 2,402 Other bills 26,807 26,807 2,532 2,532 29,209 29,209 5,382 41,220 46,602 6,273 49,434 55,707 Details of the Groups asset-backed conduits shown in the table above are included in note 22.
Included within asset-backed securities are 12,421 million 31 December 2008: 13,792 million managed by the Wholesale division.
Further information on these exposures is provided in note 54.
The carrying value of assets that are subject to stock lending arrangements was 4,616 million at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: nil all of which the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge.
All assets have been individually assessed for impairment.
The criteria used to determine whether an impairment loss has been incurred are disclosed in note 2 H. Included in available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2009 are debt securities individually determined to be impaired whose gross amount before impairment allowances was 144 million 31 December 2008: 282 million and in respect of which no collateral was held.
In addition, included in available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2009 are equity securities individually determined to be impaired whose gross amount before impairment allowances was 621 million 31 December 2008: 31 million.
176 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 26 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 2,631 3,722 Exchange and other adjustments 15 66 Adjustment on acquisition 3,002 Additions: Acquisitions of new properties 151 85 Additional expenditure on existing properties 67 116 Total additions 218 201 Disposals 865 300 Changes in fair value note 7 214 1,058 At 31 December 4,757 2,631 The investment properties are valued at least annually at open-market value, by independent, professionally qualified valuers, who have recent experience in the location and categories of the investment properties being valued.
In addition, the following amounts have been recognised in the income statement: 2009 2008 m m Rental income 358 209 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties that generate rental income 64 29 Capital expenditure in respect of investment properties: 2009 2008 m m Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not recognised in the financial statements 57 82 27 GOODWILL 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 2,256 2,358 Exchange and other adjustments 2 Impairment charged to the income statement 240 100 At 31 December 2,016 2,256 1 Cost 2,362 2,362 Accumulated impairment losses 346 106 At 31 December 2,016 2,256 1 For acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, cost is included net of amounts amortised up to 31 December 2003.
The goodwill held in the Groups balance sheet is tested at least annually for impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing the goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit: of the total balance of 2,016 million 31 December 2008: 2,256 million, 1,836 million or 91 per cent of the total has been allocated to Scottish Widows in the Groups Insurance division and 170 million or 8 per cent of the total to Asset Finance in the Groups Wholesale division.
The recoverable amount of Scottish Widows has been based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation uses projections of future cash flows based upon budgets and plans approved by management covering a five-year period, and a discount rate of 12 per cent gross of tax.
The budgets and plans are based upon past experience adjusted to take into account anticipated changes in sales volumes, product mix and margins having regard to expected market conditions and competitor activity.
The discount rate is determined with reference to internal measures and available industry information.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using a steady 3 per cent growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the life assurance market.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of Scottish Widows to fall below its balance sheet carrying value.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 177 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 GOODWILL continued In 2009, the markets in which the Consumer Finance unit of Asset Finance operates have deteriorated further with both macroeconomic and market conditions worsening, leading to a fall off in demand and increasing arrears.
This, together with continuing uncertainties over the likely short-term macroeconomic environment, has resulted in a reassessment of the carrying value of the consumer finance cash generating unit and the recognition of a goodwill impairment charge of 240 million at 31 December 2009 reflecting the write down of the entire balance of goodwill allocated to the Consumer Finance unit of Asset Finance leaving goodwill of 170 million in the Autolease unit of Asset Finance.
The recoverable amount of Asset Finance has also been based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and plans approved by management covering a five-year period and a discount rate of 18.75 per cent gross of tax.
The cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 0.5 per cent which does not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the markets in which Asset Finance participates.
27 GOODWILL 28 VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS The gross value of in-force business asset in the consolidated balance sheet is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts 1,545 Value of in-force insurance and participating investment contracts 5,140 1,893 6,685 1,893 The movement in the acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts over the year is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January Adjustment on acquisition 1,620 Amortisation taken to income statement note 11 75 At 31 December 1,545 The acquired value of in-force non-participating investment contracts includes 379 million in relation to OEIC business.
The movement in the value of in-force insurance and participating investment contracts over the year is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 1,893 2,218 Adjustment on acquisition 2,093 Exchange and other adjustments 15 Movements in the year: New business 563 368 Existing business: Expected return 456 112 Experience variances 84 46 Non-economic assumption changes 135 92 Economic variance 843 443 Movement in the value of in-force business taken to income statement note 9 1,169 325 At 31 December 5,140 1,893 This breakdown shows the movement in the value of in-force business only, and does not represent the full contribution that each item in the breakdown contributes to profit before tax, which would also contain changes in the other assets and liabilities of the relevant businesses.
Economic variance is the element of earnings which is generated from changes to economic experience in the period and to assumptions over time.
The presentation of economic variance includes the impact of financial market conditions being different at the end of the reporting period from those included in assumptions used to calculate new and existing business returns.
178 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 28 VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS continued The principal features of the methodology and process used for determining key assumptions used in the calculation of the value of in-force business are set out below: ECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
In practice, to achieve the same result, where the cash flows are either independent of or move linearly with market movements, a method has been applied known as the certainty equivalent approach whereby it is assumed that all assets earn a risk-free rate and all cash flows are discounted at a risk-free rate.
A market consistent approach has been adopted for the valuation of financial options and guarantees, using a stochastic option pricing technique calibrated to be consistent with the market price of relevant options at each valuation date.
The risk-free rate used for the value of financial options and guarantees is defined as the spot yield derived from the relevant government bond yield curve in line with FSA realistic balance sheet assumptions.
The liabilities in respect of the Groups UK annuity business are matched by a portfolio of fixed interest securities, including a large proportion of corporate bonds.
In accordance with the approach adopted in December 2008, the value of the in-force business asset for UK annuity business has been calculated after taking into account an estimate of the market premium for illiquidity in respect of these corporate bond holdings.
The illiquidity premium is estimated to be 75 basis points as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: 154 basis points.
The reduction in the illiquidity premium over 2009 has offset gains made on the assets backing the annuity liabilities, reducing the benefit within the results from the reduction in corporate bond spreads.
The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the non-annuity in-force business is the 15 year government bond yield for the appropriate territory.
The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the in-force asset for the UK annuity business is presented as a single risk-free rate to allow a better comparison to the rate used for other business.
That single risk-free rate has been derived to give the equivalent value to the UK annuity book, had that book been valued using the UK gilt yield curve increased to reflect the illiquidity premium described above.
The table below shows the range of resulting yields and other key assumptions at 31 December for UK business: 2009 2008 % % Risk-free rate value of in-force non-annuity business 4.45 3.74 Risk-free rate value of in-force annuity business 5.05 5.22 Risk-free rate financial options and guarantees 0.87 to 4.76 1.11 to 4.24 Retail price inflation 3.64 2.75 Expense in ation 4.42 3.50 NON-MARKET RISK An allowance for non-market risk is made through the choice of best estimate assumptions based upon experience, which generally will give the mean expected financial outcome for shareholders and hence no further allowance for non-market risk is required.
However, in the case of operational risk and the with-profit funds these can be asymmetric in the range of potential outcomes for which an explicit allowance is made.
NON-ECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS Future mortality, morbidity, lapse and paid-up rate assumptions are reviewed each year and are based on an analysis of past experience and on managements view of future experience.
These assumptions are intended to represent a best estimate of future experience.
Further information about the effect of changes in key assumptions is given in note 37.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 179 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Purchased Capitalised Core deposit credit card Customersoftware Brands intangible relationships related intangibles enhancements Total m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2008 57 240 297 Additions 6 80 86 At 31 December 2008 63 320 383 Adjustment on acquisition 596 2,770 300 984 104 4,754 Additions 63 63 Disposals of businesses note 14 170 170 At 31 December 2009 596 2,770 300 877 487 5,030 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2008 5 143 148 Charge for the year 7 31 38 At 31 December 2008 12 174 186 Charge for the year 21 393 58 237 60 769 Disposals 12 12 At 31 December 2009 21 393 58 237 234 943 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2009 575 2,377 242 640 253 4,087 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2008 51 146 197 The majority of the customer-related intangibles as well as the brands, core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships have arisen from the acquisition of HBOS.
Included within brands above are assets of 380 million 31 December 2008: nil that have been determined to have indefinite useful lives and are not amortised.
These brands use the Bank of Scotland name which has been in existence for over 300 years.
These brands are well established financial services brands and there are no indications that they should not continue indefinitely.
The customer-related intangibles include customer lists and the benefits of customer relationships that generate recurring income.
The purchased credit card relationships represent the benefit of recurring income generated from the portfolio of credit cards purchased and the core deposit intangible is the benefit derived from a large stable deposit base that has low interest rates.
Capitalised software enhancements principally comprise identifiable and directly associated internal staff and other costs.
180 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 30 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Operating Total tangible Premises Equipment lease assets fixed assets m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2008 1,437 2,871 1,431 5,739 Exchange and other adjustments 2 18 70 90 Additions 96 341 556 993 Disposals 19 82 493 594 At 31 December 2008 1,516 3,148 1,564 6,228 Exchange and other adjustments 19 38 281 262 Adjustment on acquisition 966 825 3,916 5,707 Additions 113 1,317 1,949 3,379 Disposals 153 130 1,326 1,609 At 31 December 2009 2,461 5,122 6,384 13,967 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2008 718 2,007 175 2,900 Exchange and other adjustments 1 10 21 32 Charge for the year 81 254 313 648 Disposals 11 63 243 317 At 31 December 2008 789 2,208 266 3,263 Exchange and other adjustments 19 12 113 82 Charge for the year 132 450 1,134 1,716 Disposals 18 49 251 318 At 31 December 2009 884 2,597 1,262 4,743 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2009 1,577 2,525 5,122 9,224 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2008 727 940 1,298 2,965 At 31 December the future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Receivable within 1 year 845 294 1 to 5 years 1,939 320 Over 5 years 88 9 2,872 623 Equipment leased to customers under operating leases primarily relates to vehicle contract hire arrangements.
During 2009 and 2008 no contingent rentals in respect of operating leases were recognised in the income statement.
In addition, total future minimum sub-lease income of 79 million at 31 December 2009 102 million at 31 December 2008 is expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases of the Groups premises.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 181 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 OTHER ASSETS 2009 2008 m m Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held note 36 1,875 385 Deferred acquisition and origination costs 533 196 Settlement balances 1,587 751 Other assets and prepayments 8,230 4,469 12,225 5,801 Deferred acquisition and origination costs: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 196 212 Adjustment on acquisition 422 Costs deferred, net of amounts amortised to the income statement 84 16 Exchange and other adjustments 1 At 31 December 533 196 32 DEPOSITS FROM BANKS 2009 2008 m m Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 27,558 24,888 Other deposits from banks 54,894 41,626 Deposits from banks 82,452 66,514 Included in deposits from banks were deposits of 17,253 million 31 December 2008: 2,574 million held as collateral.
The fair value of those deposits approximates the carrying amount.
33 CUSTOMER DEPOSITS 2009 2008 m m Non-interest bearing current accounts 9,264 4,176 Interest bearing current accounts 93,887 47,109 Savings and investment accounts 207,474 76,144 Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 35,554 92 Other customer deposits 60,562 43,417 Customer deposits 406,741 170,938 Included in customer deposits were deposits of 656 million 31 December 2008: 1,002 million held as collateral.
182 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 34 TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 2009 2008 m m Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 6,160 6,748 Trading liabilities: Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 21,389 Short positions in securities 202 6 Other 520 22,111 6 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 28,271 6,754 The amount contractually payable on maturity of the debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2009 was 5,866 million, which was 294 million lower than the balance sheet carrying value 31 December 2008: 6,517 million, which was 231 million lower than the balance sheet carrying value.
At 31 December 2009 there was a cumulative 55 million decrease in the fair value of these liabilities attributable to changes in credit spread risk: this is determined by reference to the quoted credit spreads of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, the issuing entity within the Group.
Of the 55 million, 11 million arose in 2009 and 36 million arose in 2008.
Liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss represent debt securities in issue which either contain substantive embedded derivatives which would otherwise need to be recognised and measured at fair value separately from the related debt securities, or which are accounted for at fair value to significantly reduce an accounting mismatch.
35 DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE 2009 2008 m m Medium-term notes issued 82,876 11,823 Covered bonds note 21 27,311 Certificates of deposit issued 50,858 33,207 Securitisation notes note 21 37,557 10,050 Commercial paper 34,900 20,630 Total debt securities in issue 233,502 75,710 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 183 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS Insurance contract and participating investment contract liabilities are comprised as follows: 2009 2008 1 1 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Life insurance see 1 below : Insurance contracts 56,800 1,831 54,969 21,518 380 21,138 Participating investment contracts 18,089 18,089 11,619 11,619 74,889 1,831 73,058 33,137 380 32,757 Non-life insurance contracts see 2 below : Unearned premiums 788 31 757 472 472 Claims outstanding 502 13 489 183 5 178 1,290 44 1,246 655 5 650 76,179 1,875 74,304 33,792 385 33,407 1 Reinsurance balances are reported within other assets note 31.
At 31 December 2009 44,441 million 31 December 2008: 29,967 million of liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year.
1 LIFE INSURANCE The movement in life insurance contract and participating investment contract liabilities over the year can be analysed as follows: Participating Insurance investment Gross Reinsurance Net contracts contracts m m m At 1 January 2008: 22,526 14,874 37,400 340 37,060 New business 2,915 208 3,123 32 3,091 Changes in existing business 4,092 3,363 7,455 8 7,463 Change in liabilities charged to the income statement note 10 1,177 3,155 4,332 40 4,372 Exchange and other adjustments 169 100 69 69 At 31 December 2008: 21,518 11,619 33,137 380 32,757 New business 4,455 122 4,577 28 4,549 Changes in existing business 971 374 1,345 149 1,196 Change in liabilities charged to the income statement note 10 5,426 496 5,922 177 5,745 Adjustment on acquisition 29,996 5,996 35,992 1,367 34,625 Exchange and other adjustments 140 22 162 93 69 At 31 December 2009 56,800 18,089 74,889 1,831 73,058 Liabilities for life insurance contracts and participating investment contracts can be split into with-profit fund liabilities, accounted for using the FSAs realistic capital regime realistic liabilities and non-profit fund liabilities, accounted for using a prospective actuarial discounted cash flow methodology, as follows: 2009 2008 With-profit Non-profit With-profit Non-profit fund fund Total fund fund Total m m m m m m Insurance contracts 12,066 44,734 56,800 7,457 14,061 21,518 Participating investment contracts 11,506 6,583 18,089 5,836 5,783 11,619 23,572 51,317 74,889 13,293 19,844 33,137 184 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 36 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued With-profit fund realistic liabilities i Business description The Group has with-profit funds within Scottish Widows plc and Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited containing both insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The primary purpose of the conventional and unitised business written in the with-profit funds is to provide a long-term smoothed investment vehicle to the policyholder, protecting them against short-term market fluctuations.
With-profit policyholders are entitled to at least 90 per cent of the distributed profits, the shareholders receiving the balance.
The policyholder is also usually insured against death and the policy may carry a guaranteed annuity option at maturity.
ii Method of calculation of liabilities With-profit liabilities are stated at their realistic value, the main components of which are: With-profit benefit reserve, the total asset shares for with-profit policies: Cost of options and guarantees Deductions levied against asset shares: and Impact of the smoothing policy.
The realistic assessment is carried out using a stochastic simulation model which values liabilities on a market consistent basis.
The calculation of realistic liabilities uses best estimate assumptions for mortality, persistency rates and expenses.
These are calculated in a similar manner to those used for the value of in-force business as discussed in note 28. iii Assumptions Key assumptions used in the calculation of with-profit liabilities, and the processes for determining these, are: INVESTMENT RETURNS AND DISCOUNT RATES The realistic capital regime dictates that with-profit fund liabilities are valued on a market-consistent basis.
This is achieved by the use of a valuation model which values liabilities on a basis calibrated to tradable market option contracts and other observable market data.
The with-profit fund financial options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic simulation model where all assets are assumed to earn, on average, the risk-free yield and all cash flows are discounted using the risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as the spot yield derived from the relevant government bond yield curve.
GUARANTEED ANNUITY OPTIONS Certain pension contracts contain guaranteed annuity options that allow the policyholder to take an annuity benefit on retirement at annuity rates that were guaranteed at the outset of the contract.
For contracts that contain such options, key assumptions in determining the cost of options are economic conditions in which the option has value, mortality rates and take up rates of other options.
The financial impact is dependent on the value of corresponding investments, interest rates and longevity at the time of the claim.
INVESTMENT VOLATILITY The calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices.
MORTALITY The mortality assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this is significant, and relevant industry data otherwise.
LAPSE RATES PERSISTENCY Lapse rates refer to the rate of policy termination or the rate at which policyholders stop paying regular premiums due under the contract.
Historical persistency experience is analysed using statistical techniques.
As experience can vary considerably between different product types and for contracts that have been in force for different periods, the data is broken down into broadly homogenous groups for the purposes of this analysis.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses and managements views on future experience, taking into consideration potential changes in future experience that may result from guarantees and options becoming more valuable under adverse market conditions, in order to determine a best estimate view of what persistency will be.
In determining this best estimate view a number of factors are considered, including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period under consideration, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 185 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued Non-profit fund liabilities i Business description The Group principally writes the following types of life insurance contracts within its non-profit funds.
Shareholder profits on these types of business arise from management fees and other policy charges.
Unit-linked business This includes unit-linked pensions and unit-linked bonds, the primary purpose of which is to provide an investment vehicle where the policyholder is also insured against death.
Life insurance The policyholder is insured against death or permanent disability, usually for predetermined amounts.
Such business includes whole of life and term assurance and long-term creditor policies.
Annuities The policyholder is entitled to payments for the duration of their life and is therefore insured against surviving longer than expected.
German insurance and pensions business is written through the subsidiary Heidelberger Leben and comprises policies similar to the UK definitions above, except that there is participation by the policyholder in the investment, insurance and expense profits of Heidelberger Leben.
A minimum level of policyholder participation is prescribed by German law.
The following types of life insurance contracts are written under which there is policyholder participation in Heidelberger Leben profits: Unit linked endowment or pensions business: Traditional endowment or pensions business: Life insurance business in which the policyholder is protected against temporary disability: and Life insurance business in which the policyholder is protected against death.
ii Method of calculation of liabilities The non-profit fund liabilities are determined on the basis of recognised actuarial methods and consistent with the approach required by regulatory rules.
The methods used involve estimating future policy cash flows over the duration of the in-force book of policies, and discounting the cash flows back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence.
iii Assumptions Generally, assumptions used to value non-profit fund liabilities are prudent in nature and therefore contain a margin for adverse deviation.
This margin for adverse deviation is based on managements judgement and reflects managements views on the inherent level of uncertainty.
The key assumptions used in the measurement of non-profit fund liabilities are: INTEREST RATES The rates used are derived in accordance with the guidelines set by local regulatory bodies.
These limit the rates of interest that can be used by reference to a number of factors including the redemption yields on fixed interest assets at the valuation date.
Margins for risk are allowed for in the assumed interest rates.
These are derived from the limits in the guidelines set by local regulatory bodies, including reductions made to the available yields to allow for default risk based upon the credit rating of the securities allocated to the insurance liability.
MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY The mortality and morbidity assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this provides a reliable basis, and relevant industry data otherwise, and include a margin for adverse deviation.
For German business appropriate industry tables have been considered.
LAPSE RATES PERSISTENCY Lapse rates are allowed for on some non-profit fund contracts.
The process for setting these rates is as described for with-profit liabilities, however a prudent scenario is assumed by the inclusion of a margin for adverse deviation within the non-profit fund liabilities.
MAINTENANCE EXPENSES Allowance is made for future policy costs explicitly.
Expenses are determined by reference to an internal analysis of current and expected future costs plus a margin for adverse deviation.
Explicit allowance is made for future expense inflation.
For German business appropriate cost assumptions have been set in accordance with the rules of the local regulatory body.
KEY CHANGES IN ASSUMPTIONS A detailed review of the Groups assumptions in 2009 resulted in the following key impacts on profit before tax: Change in persistency assumptions 79 million decrease Change in the assumption in respect of future mortality rates 44 million increase These amounts include the impacts of movements in liabilities and value of the in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
186 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 36 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued 2 NON-LIFE INSURANCE Gross non-life insurance contract liabilities are analysed by line of business as follows: 2009 2008 m m Credit protection 533 293 Home 754 359 Health 3 3 1,290 655 For non-life insurance contracts, the methodology and assumptions used in relation to determining the bases of the earned premium and claims provisioning levels are derived for each individual underwritten product.
Assumptions are intended to be neutral estimates of the most likely or expected outcome.
There has been no significant change in the assumptions and methodologies used for setting reserves.
The reserving methodology and associated assumptions are set out below: The unearned premium reserve is determined on a basis that reflects the length of time for which contracts have been in force and the projected incidence of risk over the term of each contract.
Claims outstanding comprise those claims that have been notified and those that have been incurred but not reported.
Claims incurred but not reported are determined based on the historical emergence of claims and their average cost.
The notified claims element represents the best estimate of the cost of claims reported using projections and estimates based on historical experience.
The movements in non-life insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets over the year have been as follows: Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Provisions for unearned premiums At 1 January 2008 456 456 Increase in the year 651 23 628 Release in the year 635 23 612 Change in provision for unearned premiums charged to income statement note 8 16 16 At 31 December 2008 472 472 Adjustment on acquisition 487 4 483 Increase in the year 1,267 101 1,166 Release in the year 1,438 75 1,363 Change in provision for unearned premiums charged to income statement note 8 171 26 197 Exchange translation 1 1 At 31 December 2009 788 31 757 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 187 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued These provisions represent the liability for short-term insurance contracts for which the Groups obligations are not expired at the year end.
Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Claims and loss adjustment expenses Notified claims 188 10 178 Incurred but not reported 19 19 At 1 January 2008 207 10 197 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 245 7 238 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 221 221 Arising from prior year claims 2 2 Change in liabilities charged to income statement note 10 24 5 19 At 31 December 2008 183 5 178 Adjustment on acquisition 208 5 203 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 513 14 499 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 623 15 608 Arising from prior year claims 1 2 1 Change in liabilities charged to income statement note 10 111 3 108 At 31 December 2009 502 13 489 Notified claims 289 9 280 Incurred but not reported 213 4 209 At 31 December 2009 502 13 489 Notified claims 160 5 155 Incurred but not reported 23 23 At 31 December 2008 183 5 178 188 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 36 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued NON-LIFE INSURANCE CLAIMS DEVELOPMENT TABLE The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
The top half of the table below illustrates how the Groups estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year has changed at successive year ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
The accident year basis is considered the most appropriate for the business written by the Group.
NON-LIFE INSURANCE ALL RISKS GROSS 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total m m m m m m Accident year Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 211 208 317 205 639 1,580 One year later 207 206 311 199 Two years later 204 204 299 Three years later 202 204 Four years later 201 Current estimate in respect of above claims 201 204 299 199 639 1,542 Current estimate of claims relating to general insurance business acquired during the year 283 321 391 270 1,265 Current estimate of cumulative claims 484 525 690 469 639 2,807 Cumulative payments to date 478 517 664 412 270 2,341 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 6 8 26 57 369 466 1 Liability in respect of earlier years 26 Total liability included in the balance sheet 492 1 This balance includes 19 million of claims relating to general insurance business acquired during the year.
The liability of 492 million shown in the above table excludes 10 million of unallocated claims handling expenses.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 189 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 LIFE INSURANCE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The following table demonstrates the effect of changes in key assumptions on profit before tax and equity disclosed in these financial statements assuming that the other assumptions remain unchanged.
In practice this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
These amounts include movements in assets, liabilities and the value of the in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The impact is shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably symmetrical.
Increase Increase reduction in reduction in Change in profit before tax equity variable m m 1 Non-annuitant mortality 5% reduction 80 58 2 Annuitant mortality 5% reduction 120 86 3 Lapse rates 10% reduction 168 121 4 Future maintenance and investment expenses 10% reduction 207 149 5 Risk-free rate 0.25% reduction 56 40 6 Guaranteed annuity option take up 5% addition 7 5 7 Equity investment volatility 1% addition 13 9 8 Widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds 0.25% addition 144 104 9 Increase in illiquidity premia 0.10% addition 78 56 Assumptions have been flexed on the basis used to calculate the value of in-force business and the realistic and statutory reserving bases.
1 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing mortality and morbidity rates on non-annuity business to 95 per cent of the expected rate.
2 This sensitivity shows the impact on the annuity and deferred annuity business of reducing mortality rates to 95 per cent of the expected rate.
3 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing lapse and surrender rates to 90 per cent of the expected rate.
4 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing maintenance expenses and investment expenses to 90 per cent of the expected rate.
5 This sensitivity shows the impact on the value of in-force business, financial options and guarantee costs, statutory reserves and asset values of reducing the risk-free rate by 25 basis points.
6 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 5 per cent addition to the expected rate.
7 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 1 per cent addition to the expected rate.
8 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 25 basis point increase in credit default spreads on corporate bonds and the corresponding reduction in market values.
Government bond yields, the risk-free rate and illiquidity premia are all assumed to be unchanged.
9 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 10 basis point increase in the allowance for illiquidity premia.
It assumes the overall corporate bond spreads are unchanged and hence market values are unchanged.
Government bond yields and the non-annuity risk-free rate are both assumed to be unchanged.
The increased illiquidity premium increases the annuity risk-free rate.
38 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM NON-PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS The movement in liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts may be analysed as follows: Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2008 18,197 18,197 New business 660 660 Changes in existing business 4,614 4,614 At 31 December 2008 14,243 14,243 Adjustment on acquisition 28,181 28,181 New business 3,498 3,498 Changes in existing business 430 430 Exchange translation 4 4 At 31 December 2009 46,348 46,348 190 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 39 UNALLOCATED SURPLUS WITHIN INSURANCE BUSINESSES The movement in the unallocated surplus within long-term insurance business over the year can be analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 270 554 Adjustment on acquisition 526 Change in unallocated surplus recognised in the income statement note 10 318 284 Exchange and other adjustments 32 At 31 December 1,082 270 40 OTHER LIABILITIES 2009 2008 m m Settlement balances 2,070 891 Unitholders interest in Open Ended Investment Companies 12,415 4,336 Other creditors and accruals 14,835 6,229 Other liabilities 29,320 11,456 41 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 2009 2008 m m Charge to the income statement Defined benefit pension schemes 529 157 Other post-retirement benefit schemes 7 7 Total defined benefit schemes 536 164 Defined contribution pension schemes 208 71 744 235 2009 2008 m m Amounts recognised in the balance sheet Defined benefit pension schemes 619 1,657 Other post-retirement benefit schemes 161 114 780 1,771 PENSION SCHEMES Defined benefit schemes The Group has established a number of defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas, the three most significant being the defined benefit sections of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Schemes Nos 1 and 2 and the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme HFSPS.
These schemes provide retirement benefits calculated as a percentage of final salary depending upon the length of service: the minimum retirement age under the rules of the schemes at 31 December 2009 was 50.
The latest full valuations of the two Lloyds TSB schemes were carried out as at 30 June 2008: the latest full valuation of the HFSPS was carried out as at 31 December 2007.
The provisional results have been updated to 31 December 2009 by qualified independent actuaries.
The last full valuations of other Group schemes were carried out on a number of different dates: these have been updated to 31 December 2009 by qualified independent actuaries or, in the case of the Scottish Widows Retirement Benefits Scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by Scottish Widows.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 191 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued The Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes are funded.
During 2009, the Groups contributions to its defined benefit schemes of 1,859 million included one-off contributions to the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 1 and Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 2 of approximately 1 billion in aggregate.
These contributions took the form of interests in limited liability partnerships for each of the two schemes which contain assets of approximately 5 billion in aggregate entitling the schemes to annual payments of approximately 215 million in aggregate until 31 December 2014.
Thereafter, assuming that all distributions have been made, the value of the partnership interests will equate to a nominal amount.
The limited liability partnerships are fully consolidated in the Groups balance sheet see note 22.
The Group currently expects to pay contributions of at least 500 million to its defined benefit schemes in 2010.
2009 2008 m m Amount included in the balance sheet Present value of funded obligations 27,073 15,617 Fair value of scheme assets 23,518 13,693 3,555 1,924 Unrecognised actuarial losses 2,936 267 Liability in the balance sheet 619 1,657 2009 2008 m m Movements in the defined benefit obligation At 1 January 15,617 16,795 Adjustment on acquisition 7,046 Current service cost 395 258 Employee contributions 2 Interest cost 1,383 957 Actuarial losses gains 3,568 1,928 Benefits paid 932 597 Past service cost 67 21 Curtailments 6 Settlements 8 Exchange and other adjustments 65 105 At 31 December 27,073 15,617 2009 2008 m m Changes in the fair value of scheme assets At 1 January 13,693 16,112 Adjustment on acquisition 6,743 Expected return 1,320 1,085 Employer contributions 1,859 541 Employee contributions 2 Actuarial gains losses 886 3,520 Benefits paid 932 597 Settlements 12 Exchange and other adjustments 41 72 At 31 December 23,518 13,693 Actual return on scheme assets 2,206 2,435 192 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 41 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued ASSUMPTIONS The principal actuarial and financial assumptions used in valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes were as follows: 2009 2008 % % Discount rate 5.70 6.30 Rate of inflation 3.40 3.00 Rate of salary increases 3.75 3.75 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.20 2.80 Years Years Life expectancy for member aged 60, on the valuation date: Men 27.1 26.4 Women 28.2 27.2 Life expectancy for member aged 60, 15 years after the valuation date: Men 28.7 27.3 Women 29.8 28.1 The mortality assumptions used in the scheme valuations are based on standard tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries which were adjusted in line with the actual experience of the relevant schemes.
The table shows that a member retiring at age 60 as at 31 December 2009 is assumed to live for, on average, 27.1 years for a male and 28.2 years for a female.
In practice there will be much variation between individual members but these assumptions are expected to be appropriate across all members.
It is assumed that younger members will live longer in retirement than those retiring now.
This reflects the expectation that mortality rates will continue to fall over time as medical science and standards of living improve.
To illustrate the degree of improvement assumed the table also shows the life expectancy for members aged 45 now, when they retire in 15 years time at age 60.
An analysis of the impact of a reasonable change in these assumptions is provided in note 3.
The expected return on scheme assets has been calculated using the following assumptions: 2009 2008 % % Equities 8.4 8.2 Fixed interest gilts 3.7 4.5 Index linked gilts 4.0 4.4 Non-Government bonds 6.7 6.0 Property 6.4 6.7 Money market instruments and cash 3.8 4.8 The expected return on scheme assets in 2010 will be calculated using the following assumptions: 2010 % Equities and alternative assets 8.3 Fixed interest gilts 4.5 Index linked gilts 4.1 Non-Government bonds 6.0 Property 7.5 Money market instruments and cash 4.3 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 193 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Composition of scheme assets: 2009 2008 m m Equities 10,934 7,040 Fixed interest gilts 2,038 1,452 Index linked gilts 2,917 1,326 Non-Government bonds 2,148 1,721 Property 1,577 1,485 Money market instruments, cash and other assets and liabilities 3,904 669 At 31 December 23,518 13,693 The assets of all the funded plans are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The expected return on plan assets was determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields at the balance sheet date at a term and credit rating broadly appropriate for the bonds held.
Expected returns on equity and property investments are long-term rates based on the views of the plans independent investment consultants.
The expected return on equities allows for the different expected returns from the private equity, infrastructure and hedge fund investments held by some of the funded plans.
Some of the funded plans also invest in certain money market instruments and the expected return on these investments has been assumed to be the same as cash.
Experience adjustments history: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 27,073 15,617 16,795 17,378 17,320 Fair value of scheme assets 23,518 13,693 16,112 15,279 14,026 3,555 1,924 683 2,099 3,294 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 31 39 185 50 69 Experience gains losses gains on scheme assets 886 3,520 139 314 1,538 The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December comprises: 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 395 258 Interest cost 1,383 957 Expected return on scheme assets 1,320 1,085 Curtailments 6 Settlements 4 Past service cost 67 21 Total fide ned bene t pension expense 529 157 Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas, principally the defined contribution sections of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Schemes Nos 1 and 2.
During the year ended 31 December 2009 the charge to the income statement in respect of defined contribution schemes was 208 million 2008: 71 million, representing the contributions payable by the employer in accordance with each schemes rules.
194 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 41 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits and concessionary mortgages to certain employees, retired employees and their dependants.
The principal scheme relates to former Lloyds Bank staff and under this scheme the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees and their dependants who retired prior to 1 January 1996.
The Group has entered into an insurance contract to provide these benefits and a provision has been made for the estimated cost of future insurance premiums payable.
For the principal post-retirement healthcare scheme, the latest actuarial valuation of the liability was carried out at 30 June 2008: this valuation has been updated to 31 December 2009 by qualified independent actuaries.
The principal assumptions used were as set out above, except that the rate of increase in healthcare premiums has been assumed at 7.33 per cent 2008: 7.50 per cent.
Amount included in the balance sheet: 2009 2008 m m Present value of unfunded obligations 170 118 Unrecognised actuarial losses 9 4 Liability in the balance sheet 161 114 Movements in the other post-retirement benefits obligation: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 118 123 Exchange and other adjustments 7 2 Adjustment on acquisition 55 Actuarial loss gain 5 8 Insurance premiums paid 8 6 Charge for the year 7 7 At 31 December 170 118 42 DEFERRED TAX The movement in the net deferred tax balance is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Asset liability at 1 January 833 948 Exchange and other adjustments 107 4 Adjustment on acquisition 1,851 Disposals 16 98 Income statement credit note 15 2,619 773 Amount credited charged to equity: Available-for-sale financial assets note 47 395 566 Net investment hedges note 47 358 358 Cash flow hedges note 47 119 5 Share based compensation 5 15 629 914 Asset at 31 December 4,797 833 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 195 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42 DEFERRED TAX continued The statutory position reflects the deferred tax assets and liabilities as disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet and takes account of the inability to offset assets and liabilities where there is no legally enforceable right of offset.
The tax disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities ties to the amounts outlined in the table below which splits the deferred tax assets and liabilities by type.
2009 2008 2009 2008 Statutory position m m Tax disclosure m m Deferred tax assets 5,006 833 Deferred tax assets 8,579 2,308 Deferred tax liabilities 209 Deferred tax liabilities 3,782 1,475 4,797 833 4,797 833 The deferred tax credit in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2009 2008 m m Accelerated capital allowances 1,039 318 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 199 104 Long-term assurance business 188 458 Allowances for impairment losses 128 2 Trading losses 4,000 97 Tax on fair value of acquired assets 2,022 Other temporary differences 117 2 2,619 773 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax assets: Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 424 496 Allowances for impairment losses 474 103 Other provisions 232 51 Derivatives 155 114 Available-for-sale asset revaluation 936 567 Tax losses carried forward 5,925 856 Other temporary differences 433 121 8,579 2,308 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax liabilities: Accelerated capital allowances 92 561 Long-term assurance business 1,530 655 Tax on fair value of acquired assets 1,913 Effective interest rates 88 2 Other temporary differences 159 257 3,782 1,475 196 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 42 DEFERRED TAX continued DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
Group companies have recognised deferred tax assets of 5,925 million 2008: 856 million in relation to tax losses carried forward.
After reviews of medium-term profit forecasts, the Group considers that there will be sufficient profits in the future against which these losses will be offset.
Deferred tax assets of 487 million 31 December 2008: 252 million have not been recognised in respect of capital losses carried forward as there are no predicted future capital profits.
Capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax assets of 349 million 31 December 2008: nil have not been recognised in respect of trading losses carried forward, mainly in certain overseas companies as there are limited predicted future trading profits.
Trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
In addition, deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unrelieved foreign tax carried forward as at 31 December 2009 of 53 million 31 December 2008: 60 million, as there are no predicted future taxable profits against which the unrelieved foreign tax credits can be utilised.
These tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Future transfers from Scottish Widows plcs long-term business funds to its Shareholder Fund will be subject to a shareholder tax charge.
Under IAS 12, no provision is required to be made to the extent that the timing of such transfers is under Scottish Widows plcs control.
Accordingly, deferred tax liabilities of 90 million 2008: 90 million have not been recognised.
Scottish Widows plc has a taxable difference of 152 million 2008: 152 million in respect of its holding of a life insurance subsidiary.
No deferred tax liability is required to be recognised in respect of this taxable temporary difference under IAS 12 as Scottish Widows plc does not intend to dispose of this subsidiary company.
43 OTHER PROVISIONS Provisions for contingentCustomer Vacant liabilities and remediation Restructuring leasehold commitments provisions provisions property Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 30 34 14 28 124 230 Exchange and other adjustments 1 1 7 7 Transfers 157 157 Adjustment on acquisition 503 2 40 207 752 Provisions applied 105 1 128 234 Charge release for the year 43 130 101 40 17 71 At 31 December 2009 72 460 116 108 227 983 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 197 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 OTHER PROVISIONS continued PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Provisions are held in cases where the Group is irrevocably committed to advance additional funds, but where there is doubt as to the customers ability to meet its repayment obligations.
CUSTOMER REMEDIATION PROVISIONS The Group establishes provisions for the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past product sales, in those cases where the original sales processes have been found to be deficient.
During 2009 management has reviewed the adequacy of the provisions held having regard to current complaint volumes and the level of payments being made and 130 million has been released to the income statement.
At 31 December 2009 the remaining provisions held relate to past sales of a number of products, including mortgage endowment policies, sold through the branch networks.
RESTRUCTURING Provisions are made for staff and other costs related to Group restructuring initiatives at the point at which the Group becomes irrevocably committed to the expenditure.
VACANT LEASEHOLD PROPERTY Vacant leasehold property provisions are made by reference to a prudent estimate of expected sub-let income, compared to the head rent, and the possibility of disposing of the Groups interest in the lease, taking into account conditions in the property market.
These provisions are reassessed on a biennial basis and will normally run off over the period of under-recovery of the leases concerned, currently averaging five years: where a property is disposed of earlier than anticipated, any remaining balance in the provision relating to that property is released.
OTHER Other provisions include the provisions which the Group carries in respect of its obligations relating to UIC Insurance Company Limited UIC, which is in provisional liquidation.
The Group has indemnified a third party against losses in the event that UIC does not honour its obligations under a reinsurance contract, which is subject to asbestosis and pollution claims in the US.
The ultimate cost of settling the Groups exposure in respect of the insurance business of UIC and the timing remains uncertain.
The provision held represents managements current best estimate of the cost after having regard to the financial condition of UIC and actuarial estimates of future claims.
198 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 44 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES 2009 2008 m m Preference shares 1,983 1,408 Preferred securities 2,917 4,088 Undated subordinated liabilities 4,826 5,638 Enhanced capital notes 9,047 Dated subordinated liabilities 15,954 6,122 34,727 17,256 As part of the Groups recapitalisation and agreement not to enter GAPS which included a 13.1 billion rights issue net of costs note 45, on 1 December, 10 December and 15 December 2009, the Group issued a total of 8,554 million of enhanced capital notes in exchange for certain existing preference shares, preferred securities and undated subordinated liabilities.
The ECNs contain an equity conversion feature based on a fixed definition as defined by the Financial Services Authority in May 2009 that requires them to convert into ordinary shares if the consolidated core tier 1 ratio of the Group falls below 5 per cent.
The conversion feature meets the definition of an embedded derivative and has been recorded separately as a derivative asset note 18.
The ECNs are guaranteed by either the Company or Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
These guarantees are subordinated to the claims of senior creditors, rank equally with the claims of the holders of dated subordinated liabilities and are senior to the claims of holders of undated subordinated liabilities, preferred securities and shareholders of the respective guarantor.
The securities in this note will, in the event of the winding-up of the issuer, be subordinated to the claims of depositors and all other creditors of the issuer, other than creditors whose claims rank equally with, or are junior to, the claims of the holders of the subordinated liabilities.
The subordination of specific subordinated liabilities is determined in respect of the issuer and any guarantors of that liability.
The claims of holders of preferred shares and securities are generally junior to those of the holders of undated subordinated liabilities, which in turn are junior to the claims of holders of the dated subordinated liabilities.
The subordination of the enhanced capital notes ranks equally with that of the dated subordinated liabilities.
The Group has not had any defaults of principal, interest or other breaches with respect to its subordinated liabilities during the year 2008: none.
No repayment or purchase by the issuer of the subordinated liabilities may be made prior to their stated maturity without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
2009 2008 Note m m Preference shares 6% Non-cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares a 6.369% Fixed Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares callable 2015 600 million c, e 584 6.267% Fixed Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares callable 2016 US$1,000 million c, e 327 824 9% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 300 million b, c, e 197 9% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 100 million b, c, e 72 6.413% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 series A preference shares US$750 million b, c, e 115 5.92% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 series B preference shares US$750 million b, c, e 90 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating rate US$1 preference shares US$750 million b, c, e 28 7.875% Non-cumulative callable preference shares US$1,250 million c, d, e 680 7.875% Non-cumulative callable preference shares 500 million c, d, e 417 6.475% xed rate non-cumulative callable preference shares 186 million b, c, e 45 6.0884% xed-tooating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares 745 million b, c, e 10 6.3673% xed-tooating non-cumulative callable preference shares 335 million b, c, e 2 1,983 1,408 As described in note 51, in January 2009 the Company issued 1,000 million 12 per cent xed-tooating non-cumulative callable preference shares to HM Treasury as part of the recapitalisation of the Lloyds Banking Group and a further 3,000 million 12 per cent xed-tooating non-cumulative callable preference shares in respect of the recapitalisation of the HBOS Group.
These shares were redeemed out of the proceeds from the placing and compensatory open offer in June 2009 see note 45 and are excluded from the table above.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 199 199 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Gr Lloyds Banking Group oup company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES continued a Since 2004, the Company has had in issue 400 6 per cent non-cumulative preference shares of 25p each.
The shares, which are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, carry the rights to a xed rate non-cumulative preferential dividend of 6 per cent per annum: no dividend shall be payable in the event that the directors determine that prudent capital ratios would not be maintained if the dividend were paid.
Upon winding up, the shares rank equally with any other preference shares issued by the Company.
The holder of the 400 25p 6 per cent preference shares has waived its right to payment for the period from 1 March 2010 to 1 March 2012. b On 16 January 2009 so as to improve the position of HBOS preference shareholders and simplify the Groups capital structure following the acquisition of HBOS the Group replaced certain HBOS preference share issuances in exchange for preference shares with similar terms and conditions issued by the Company.
c As part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, following an exchange offer, on 1 December, 10 December and 15 December 2009, certain holders of certain series elected to exchange some or all of the preference shares they held for enhanced capital notes issued by LBG Capital No.
2 plc or equity issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc.
d On 19 January 2009 the Company issued US$1,250,000,000 7.875 per cent non-cumulative callable preference shares and 500,000,000 7.875 per cent non-cumulative callable preference shares by exercising its option to convert preferred securities into preference shares.
Both issues are callable on 29 November 2013. e As described in note 9, in November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
44 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES 2009 2008 Note m m Preferred securities 6.90% Perpetual Capital Securities US$1,000 million c 645 756 7.375 % Euro Step-up Non-Voting Non-Cumulative Preferred Securities callable 2012 430 million c, d 306 459 7.875% Perpetual Capital Securities 500 million a 472 7.875% Perpetual Capital Securities US$1,250 million a 921 6.35% Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2013 500 million c 456 512 7.834% Sterling Step-up Non-Voting Non-Cumulative Preferred Securities callable 2015 250 million c, d 43 248 4.385% Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2017 750 million c, d 82 720 6.071% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each US$750 million b, c 240 6.85% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each US$1,000 million b, c 6.461% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series A of 1,000 each 600 million b, c 398 8.117% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 1 of 1,000 each Class A 250 million b, c 234 7.754% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 2 of 1,000 each Class B 150 million b, c 93 7.881% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 245 million b, c 151 7.627% Fixed to Floating Rate Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 415 million b, c 259 4.939% Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities 750 million b, c, d 10 2,917 4,088 a On 16 January 2009 Lloyds TSB Bank plc exercised the option to convert these securities into preference shares.
b Arising on acquisition of HBOS.
c As part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, following an exchange offer, on 1 December 2009, 10 December and 15 December 2009 certain holders of certain series elected to exchange some or all of the notes they held for enhanced capital notes issued by LBG Capital No.
d As described in note 9, in November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
200 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 44 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES continued 2009 2008 Note m m Undated subordinated liabilities Primary Capital Undated Floating Rate Notes: b Series 1 US$750 million e 408 515 Series 2 US$500 million e 262 343 Series 3 US$600 million e 326 412 11% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 million e 102 100 5 5 8% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2009 1,250 million b, e 1,212 Undated Step-up Floating Rate Notes callable 2009 150 million b 144 5 6 8% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2010 410 million b, c, e 5 409 5.125% Step-up Perpetual Subordinated Notes callable 2015 560 million Scottish Widows plc a 547 536 5.57% Undated Subordinated Step-up Coupon Notes callable 2015 20,000 million e 189 5.125% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2016 500 million b, c, e 455 6% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2019 270 million b, c, e 241 8% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2023 200 million b, c, e 186 6% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2029 450 million c, e 444 6% Undated Subordinated Step-up Guaranteed Bonds callable 2032 500 million c, e 10 452 13% Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2019 784 million e 9 13% Euro Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2019 532 million e 47 12% Fixed to Floating Rate Perpetual Tier 1 Capital Securities callable 2024 US$2,000 million 1,235 13% Sterling Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2029 700 million e 666 5.625% Cumulative Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 500 million b, c, d, e 1 4.875% Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Instruments 750 million b, c, d, e 60 Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 500 million b, c, d, e 41 5.375% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes US$1,000 million d, e 3 5.125% Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Notes 750 million b, c, d, e 39 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 600 million b, c, d, e 2 6.05% Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 500 million b, c, d, e 50 Perpetual Regulatory Tier One Securities 300 million d 204 7.5% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 300 million b, c, d, e 4 3.50% Undated Subordinated Yen Step-up Notes JPY 42.5 billion d 267 8.625% Perpetual Subordinated Notes 200 million b, c, d, e 18 7.375% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 200 million Clerical Medical Finance plc d, f 35 Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 300 million b, c, d, e 58 Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes US$250 million d, e 146 10.25% Subordinated Undated Instruments 100 million b, c, d, e 1 12% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 million d, e 22 8.75% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 million d, e 6 13.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 75 million d, e 33 9.375% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 50 million d, e 26 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 500 million b, c, d, e 3 4.25% Perpetual Fixed Floating Rate Reset Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 750 million Clerical Medical Finance plc d, f 190 4,826 5,638 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 201 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES continued a Scottish Widows plc may elect to defer interest on these securities although in that event Scottish Widows plc cannot declare or pay a dividend on any ordinary share capital until any deferred payments have been made.
b Following an exchange offer, on 7 January 2009 certain holders elected to exchange all or some of the notes they held for innovative Tier 1 securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
c Following an exchange offer, on 25 March 2009 certain holders elected to exchange all or some of the notes they held for senior unsecured notes issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
d Arising on acquisition of HBOS.
e As part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, following an exchange offer, on 1 December, 10 December and 15 December certain holders of certain series elected to exchange some or all of the notes they held for enhanced capital notes issued by LBG Capital No.
f Following an exchange offer, on 30 June 2009, certain holders elected to exchange all or some of the notes for senior unsecured notes by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
2009 2008 Note m m Enhanced capital notes 7.5884% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 1 732 million 690 7.8673% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 Series 2 331 million 316 7.975% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2024 Series 3 102 million 96 7.869% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 8 596 million 572 8.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 12 125 million 117 9.334% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 14 208 million 218 6.439% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 15 710 million 557 6.385% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 18 662 million 517 11.04% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 19 736 million 871 15% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 Series 21 775 million 1,125 15% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 Series 22 487 million 646 15% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2029 Series 23 68 million 108 9.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 27 148 million 153 11.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 31 39 million 45 7.375% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 32 95 million 80 Floating Rate Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 33 53 million a 42 12.75% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 34 57 million 74 8.07% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 35 20,000 million 156 7.625% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 36 226 million 193 6.75% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 Series 37 17,000 million 121 7.625% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 Series 39 151 million 142 9% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 Series 40 97 million 100 8.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 Series 41 4 million 4 14.5% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2022 Series 42 79 million 115 9.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2023 Series 44 57 million 62 11.25% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2023 Series 45 95 million 115 10.5% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2023 Series 46 69 million 78 11.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2024 Series 47 35 million 45 9% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2029 Series 49 107 million 108 8.5% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2032 Series 50 104 million 100 16.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2024 Series 52 61 million 100 7.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 US$986 million 599 8% Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Enhanced Capital Notes callable 2022 US$1,259 million b 639 8.5% Undated Enhanced Capital Notes callable 2021 Series 2 US$277 million b 143 9,047 a Interest is payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 3 month EURIBOR 3.1 per cent per annum.
b Issued in upper tier 2 format.
202 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 44 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES continued Enhanced capital notes are a new liability class developed for the purposes of the liability management exercise conducted by Lloyds Banking Group in the final quarter of 2009.
With the exception of the two series identi ed in note b, the ECNs were issued in lower tier 2 format and are convertible into ordinary shares on the breach of a fide ned trigger.
The trigger on the ECNs offered in the exchange will be if the published core tier 1 ratio of the Group falls below 5 per cent as fide ned by the Financial Services Authority in May 2009.
2009 2008 Note m m Dated subordinated liabilities 1 9 2% Subordinated Bonds 2009 100 million 100 1 6 % Subordinated Notes 2010 400 million 375 404 4 12% Guaranteed Subordinated Bonds 2011 100 million a 108 100 7.70% Notes 2010 US$500 million b 327 1 9 % Subordinated Bonds 2011 150 million 152 149 8 3 4 % Subordinated Notes 2011 850 million 771 836 4 6.50% Notes 2011 US$150 million b 102 5.50% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2012 750 million b 654 6.25% Instruments 2012 12.8 million b 10 6.125% Notes 2013 325 million b 296 4.25% Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 2013 US$1,000 million b 594 7 5 % Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2014 750 million 768 821 8 7 5 8% Subordinated Notes 2014 150 million 154 149 11% Subordinated Bonds 2014 250 million b 304 5 6 % Subordinated Notes 2015 350 million 335 320 8 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2015 1,000 million b 875 Subordinated Step-up Floating Rate Notes 2016 callable 2011 300 million 296 300 Subordinated Step-up Floating Rate Notes 2016 callable 2011 500 million 445 480 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 500 million b 374 Subordinated Notes 2016 500 million b 389 Notes 2016 US$750 million b 367 Subordinated Lower Tier II Notes 2017 1,000 million b 704 Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 US$1,000 million b 464 Subordinated Callable Floating Rate Instruments 2017 Aus$400 million b 209 6.75% Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Instruments 2017 Aus$200 million b 101 5.109% Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Notes 2017 Can$500 million b 263 Lower Tier II Subordinated Notes 2017 500 million b 474 5.625% Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes due 2018 callable 2013 1,000 million 979 992 10.5% Subordinated Bonds 2018 150 million b 165 6.75% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2018 US$2,000 million b 917 6.375% Instruments 2019 250 million b 227 4.375% Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 750 million b 602 6.9625% Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes due 2020 callable 2015 750 million 755 754 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2020 100 million 89 96 9.375% Subordinated Bonds 2021 500 million b 268 5.374% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2021 160 million b 132 6.45% Fixed Floating Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2023 400 million Clerical Medical Finance plc b, c 171 6.5% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2023 175 million b 128 5.75% Subordinated Step-up Notes 2025 callable 2020 350 million 322 309 9 5 8% Subordinated Bonds 2023 300 million 333 312 4.50% Fixed Rate Step-up Subordinated Notes due 2030 750 million b 478 6.00% Subordinated Notes 2033 US$750 million b 477 15,954 6,122 a Issued by a group undertaking under the Companys subordinated guarantee.
c Following an exchange offer on 30 June 2009, certain holders elected to exchange all or some of the notes for senior unsecured notes issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 203 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 SHARE CAPITAL 1 AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company removed references to authorised share capital from its articles of association at the annual general meeting on 5 June 2009.
This change took effect from 1 October 2009.
2 ISSUED AND FULLY PAID SHARE CAPITAL 2009 2008 2009 2008 Number of shares Number of shares m m Ordinary shares of 10p formerly 25p each At 1 January 5,972,855,669 5,647,703,945 1,493 1,412 Private placement 284,400,000 71 Placing and open offer 2,596,653,203 649 Issued on acquisition of HBOS 7,775,694,993 1,944 Capitalisation issue 407,943,501 102 Placing and compensatory open offer 10,408,535,000 2,602 Subdivision 4,074 Rights issue 36,505,088,579 3,651 Issued to the Lloyds TSB Foundations 107,740,591 11 Issued under employee share schemes 40,751,724 10 At 31 December 63,774,511,536 5,972,855,669 6,378 1,493 Limited voting ordinary shares of 10p formerly 25p each At 1 January 78,947,368 78,947,368 20 20 Capitalisation issue 1,973,683 Subdivision 12 At 31 December 80,921,051 78,947,368 8 20 Deferred shares of 15p each At 1 January Subdivision of ordinary shares 27,161,682,366 4,074 Subdivision of limited voting ordinary shares 80,921,051 12 At 31 December 27,242,603,417 4,086 Total issued share capital 10,472 1,513 Details of preference shares that are classified as debt for accounting purposes are given in note 44.
SHARE SUBDIVISION At the general meeting held on 26 November 2009 the Companys shareholders approved the subdivision of the ordinary shares with each ordinary share of 25 pence subdivided into one ordinary share of 10 pence and a deferred share of 15 pence.
In addition, the shareholders approved the subdivision of the limited voting ordinary shares with each share of 25 pence subdivided into one limited voting ordinary share of 10 pence and a deferred share of 15 pence.
204 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 45 SHARE CAPITAL continued Share issuances during 2009 ORDINARY SHARES On 13 January 2009 the Company issued 2,597 million shares under a placing and open offer, subscribed for by HM Treasury as part of the recapitalisation of the banking industry by the UK Government, which raised 4,430 million net of 70 million issue costs.
This issue resulted in an increase of 649 million in share capital and an increase of 3,781 million in the merger reserve.
On 16 January 2009 the Company issued 7,776 million shares in consideration for the acquisition of HBOS, whereby 12,852 million HBOS shares were exchanged for Lloyds Banking Group shares at a ratio of 0.605 shares per HBOS share.
This issue resulted in an increase of 1,944 million in share capital and an increase of 5,707 million in the merger reserve.
In lieu of a dividend the Group announced a capitalisation issue of 1 for 40 ordinary shares held and on 11 May 2009 408 million ordinary shares of 25 pence were issued.
This resulted in an increase in share capital of 102 million with a corresponding decrease in the share premium account.
In June 2009 the Company issued 10,409 million shares under a placing and compensatory open offer which raised 3,905 million net of 95 million issue costs, the proceeds of which were used to redeem the 4,000 million of 12 per cent xed-tooating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares of 25 pence each issued to HM Treasury earlier in the year as described in note 44.
This issue resulted in an increase of 2,602 million in share capital and an increase of 1,303 million in the share premium account.
In December 2009, the Company issued 36,505 million shares in a rights issue at an issue price of 37 pence per new share as part of its recapitalisation and exit from the Government Asset Protection Scheme.
This raised 13,112 million net of 395 million of issue costs.
This issue resulted in an increase of 3,651 million in share capital and an increase of 9,461 million in the share premium account.
DEFERRED SHARES The share subdivision noted above created 27,243 million deferred shares of 15 pence each.
These shares carry no voting or dividend rights and on a return of capital on a winding up of the Company will have the right to receive the paid up amount only after ordinary shareholders have received in aggregate any amounts paid up plus 10 million per ordinary share.
3 SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than as set out in the articles of association and: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law and regulations for example, insider trading laws : pursuant to the UK Listing Authoritys listing rules where directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares: and pursuant to the rules of some of the Companys employee share plans where certain restrictions may apply while the shares are subject to the plans.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the bene cial owners of shares but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
In addition, the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Information regarding signi cant direct or indirect holdings of shares in the Company can be found on page 261.
The directors have authority to allot and issue ordinary and preference shares and to make market purchases of preference shares as granted at the general meeting on 26 November 2009.
The authority to issue shares will expire at the annual general meeting, and the authority to make market purchases of preference shares expires on 25 November 2010.
The directors also have authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares as granted at the general meeting on 5 June 2009.
This authority expires either a year after the date of approval or at the annual general meeting.
Shareholders will be asked, at the annual general meeting, to give similar authorities.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held.
Further details regarding voting at the annual general meeting can be found in the notes to the notice of the annual general meeting.
ORDINARY SHARES The holders of ordinary shares excluding the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 98.7 per cent of the total ordinary share capital as at 31 December 2009, are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, attend, speak and vote at general meetings and appoint proxies to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares excluding the limited voting ordinary shares may also receive a dividend subject to the provisions of the Companys articles of association and the restrictions noted below and on a winding up may share in the assets of the Company.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 205 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 SHARE CAPITAL continued Under the terms of the state aid remedies referred to in note 9, the Company is prevented from making discretionary coupon and dividend payments on certain capital instruments from 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012.
Consequently, the terms of these instruments prevent the Company from making dividend payments on ordinary shares.
45 SHARE CAPITAL LIMITED VOTING ORDINARY SHARES The limited voting ordinary shares are held by the Lloyds TSB Foundations the Foundations.
The holders of the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 1.3 per cent of the total ordinary shares as at 31 December 2009, are entitled to receive copies of every circular or other document sent out by the Company to the holders of other ordinary shares.
These shares carry no rights to dividends but rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in respect of other distributions and in the event of winding up.
These shares do not have any right to vote at general meetings other than on resolutions concerning acquisitions or disposals of such importance that they require shareholder consent, or for the winding up of the Company, or for a variation in the class rights of the limited voting ordinary shares.
In the event of an offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting ordinary share will convert into an ordinary share and shall rank equally with the ordinary shares in all respects from the date of conversion.
PREFERENCE SHARES The Company has in issue various classes of preference shares which are all classi ed as liabilities under IFRS and details of which are shown in note 44.
46 SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 2,096 1,298 Premium arising on private placement of ordinary shares 689 Capitalisation issue 102 Premium arising on Placing and Compensatory Open Offer of ordinary shares 1,303 1 Transfer to merger reserve 1,000 Rights issue 9,461 Issued to Lloyds TSB Foundations 30 2 Redemption of preference shares 2,684 Premium arising on issue of shares under share option schemes 109 At 31 December 14,472 2,096 1 Distributable reserves of 1,000 million arose on the issue of preference shares in January 2009 which were classi ed as debt.
In June 2009, these preference shares were redeemed out of the proceeds of the placing and compensatory open offer of ordinary shares and the distributable element of this issue was transferred from the share premium account to the merger reserve.
2 In December 2009, the Group redeemed eight issues of preference shares in exchange for the issuance of enhanced capital notes.
This resulted in a transfer of 26 million from the merger reserve to the capital redemption reserve and a transfer of 2,684 million from the merger reserve to the share premium account.
Details of the preference shares redeemed are set out in note 44.
206 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 47 OTHER RESERVES 2009 2008 m m Other reserves comprise: Merger reserve 8,121 343 Capital redemption reserve 26 Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 914 2,982 Cash ow hedging reserve 305 15 Foreign currency translation reserve 158 178 At 31 December 7,086 2,476 The merger reserve primarily comprises the premium on shares issued on 13 January 2009 under the placing and open offer and shares issued on 16 January 2009 on the acquisition of HBOS plc.
The capital redemption reserve represents transfers from the merger reserve in accordance with companies legislation.
The revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets represents the cumulative after tax unrealised change in the fair value of financial assets classi ed as available-for-sale since initial recognition, or in the case of available-for-sale financial assets obtained on acquisitions of businesses, since the date of acquisition.
The cash ow hedging reserve represents the cumulative after tax gains and losses on effective cash ow hedging instruments that will be reclassi ed to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects pro t or loss.
The foreign currency translation reserve represents the cumulative after-tax gains and losses on the translation of foreign operations and exchange differences arising on financial instruments designated as hedges of the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Movements in other reserves were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Merger reserve At 1 January 343 343 Placing and open offer 3,781 Shares issued on acquisition of HBOS 5,707 1 Issue of preference shares 1,000 2 Redemption of preference shares 2,710 At 31 December 8,121 343 2009 2008 m m Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 2 Redemption of preference shares 26 At 31 December 26 1 Distributable reserves of 1,000 million arose on the issue of preference shares in January 2009 which were classi ed as debt.
In June 2009, these preference shares were redeemed out of the proceeds of the placing and compensatory open offer of ordinary shares and the distributable element of this issue was transferred to the merger reserve.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 207 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 OTHER RESERVES continued 2009 2008 m m Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets At 1 January 2,982 399 Exchange and other adjustments 199 541 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 2,234 2,721 Change in fair value attributable to minority interests 1 2 Deferred tax 276 566 Current tax 2 94 1,955 2,059 Income statement transfers: Disposals note 9 97 19 Deferred tax 23 74 19 Impairment 621 130 Deferred tax 168 Current tax 28 453 102 Other transfers 93 91 Deferred tax 26 Current tax 25 67 66 At 31 December 914 2,982 2009 2008 m m Cash ow hedging reserve At 1 January 15 3 Change in fair value of hedging derivatives 530 33 Deferred tax 148 9 382 24 Income statement transfer note 5 121 16 Deferred tax 29 4 92 12 At 31 December 305 15 2009 2008 m m Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 178 1 Currency translation differences arising in the year 652 2,533 Foreign currency losses on net investment hedges 814 3,310 Amounts transferred to income statement in respect of hedge ineffectiveness 14 Current tax 176 584 Deferred tax 358 358 632 2,354 At 31 December 158 178 208 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 48 RETAINED PROFITS 1 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 8,260 9,471 Pro t for the year 2,827 772 Dividends 2,042 Purchase sale of treasury shares 45 16 Employee share option schemes value of employee services 116 43 At 31 December 11,248 8,260 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised Retained profits are stated after deducting 48 million 2008: 40 million representing 49 million 2008: 15 million treasury shares held.
Value of employee services includes a credit of 111 million 2008: 59 million reflecting the income statement charge in respect of SAYE and executive options, together with a related tax credit of 5 million 2008: tax charge 16 million.
Purchase sale of treasury shares includes a credit of 128 million 2008: 31 million relating to the cost of other share scheme awards.
49 ORDINARY DIVIDENDS 2009 2008 2009 2008 Pence per share Pence per share m m Final dividend for previous year paid during the current year 24.7 1,394 Interim dividend 11.4 648 36.1 2,042 The directors do not propose to pay a final dividend 2008: none.
Bank of New York Nominees Limited have waived the right to all dividends on Lloyds Banking Group plc shares that they hold holding at 31 December 2009: nil shares and at 31 December 2008: 10 shares.
In addition, the trustees of the following holdings of Lloyds Banking Group plc shares in relation to employee share schemes retain the right to receive dividends but chose to waive their entitlement to the dividends on those shares as indicated: the Lloyds TSB Group Shareplan holding at 31 December 2009: 3,028,623 shares, at 31 December 2008: 972,151 shares, waived right to all dividends, the Lloyds TSB Group Employee Share Ownership Trust holding at 31 December 2009: 1,301,968 shares, at 31 December 2008: 1,442,116 shares, waived right to all dividends, Lloyds TSB Group Holdings Jersey Limited holding at 31 December 2009: 42,846 shares, at 31 December 2008: 41,801 shares, waived right to all but a nominal amount of 1 penny in total and the Lloyds TSB Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust holding at 31 December 2009: 1,398 shares, at 31 December 2008: 1,364 shares, waived right to all but a nominal amount of 1 penny in total.
50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CHARGE TO THE INCOME STATEMENT The charge to the income statement is set out below: 1 2009 2008 m m Deferred bonus scheme 18 Executive and SAYE schemes: Options granted in the year 13 28 Options granted in prior years 98 31 111 59 Share incentive plans: Shares granted in the year 26 10 Shares granted in prior years 102 21 128 31 257 90 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 209 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued SHARE BASED PAYMENT SCHEME DETAILS During the year ended 31 December 2009 the Group operated the following share based payment schemes, all of which are equity settled.
Deferred bonus scheme 2009 Bonuses in respect of the performance in 2009 of certain employees within the Groups Wholesale division have been recognised in these financial statements in full.
Individual bonus payments of up to 2,000 for employees earning up to 39,000 are not subject to deferral and as they will be settled in cash are not included in the preceding table.
Executive schemes The executive share option schemes were long-term incentive schemes available to certain senior executives of the Group, with grants usually made annually.
Options were granted within limits set by the rules of the schemes relating to the number of shares under option and the price payable on the exercise of options.
The last grant of executive options was made in August 2005.
These options were granted without a performance multiplier and the maximum limit for the grant of options in normal circumstances was three times annual salary.
Between April 2001 and August 2004, the aggregate value of the award based upon the market price at the date of grant could not exceed four times the executives annual remuneration and, normally, the limit for the grant of options to an executive in any one year would be equal to 1.5 times annual salary with a maximum performance multiplier of 3.5.
Prior to 18 April 2001, the normal limit was equal to one years remuneration and no performance multiplier was applied.
PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR EXECUTIVE OPTIONS For options granted up to March 2001 Options granted Performance conditions March 1999 August 1999 Growth in earnings per share which is equal to the aggregate percentage change in the Retail Price Index plus two percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period together with a further condition that Lloyds Banking Group plcs ranking based on total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price over the relevant period should be in the top fty companies of the FTSE 100.
March 2000 March 2001 As for March 1999 August 1999 except that there must have been growth in the earnings per share equal to the change in the Retail Price Index plus three percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period.
In respect of options granted between March 1999 and March 2001, the relevant period for the performance conditions began at the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant and continued until the end of the third subsequent year following commencement or, if not met, the end of such later year in which the conditions were met.
Once the conditions were satis ed the options remain exercisable without further conditions.
If they were not satis ed by the tenth anniversary of the grant the options would lapse.
For options granted from August 2001 to August 2004 The performance condition was linked to the performance of Lloyds Banking Group plcs total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price against a comparator group of 17 companies including Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The performance condition was measured over a three year period which commenced at the end of the financial year preceding the grant of the option and continued until the end of the third subsequent year.
If the performance condition was not then met, it was measured at the end of the fourth financial year.
If the condition was not then met, the options would lapse.
To meet the performance conditions, the Groups ranking against the comparator group required to be at least ninth.
The full grant of options only became exercisable if the Group was ranked first.
A performance multiplier of between nil and 100 per cent was applied below this level to calculate the number of shares in respect of which options granted to executive directors would become exercisable, and were calculated on a sliding scale.
If Lloyds Banking Group plc was ranked below median the options would not be exercisable.
Options granted to senior executives other than executive directors were not so highly leveraged and, as a result, different performance multipliers were applied to their options.
For the majority of executives, options were granted with the performance condition but with no performance multiplier.
Options granted in 2004 became exercisable as the performance condition was met on the re-test.
The performance condition vested at 14 per cent for executive directors, 24 per cent for managing directors, and 100 per cent for all other executives.
For options granted in 2005 The same conditions applied as for grants made up to August 2004, except that: the performance condition was linked to the performance of Lloyds Banking Group plcs total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price against a comparator group of 15 companies including Lloyds Banking Group plc: if the performance condition was not met at the end of the third subsequent year, the options would lapse: and the full grant of options became exercisable only if the Group was ranked in the top four places of the comparator group.
A sliding scale applied between fourth and eighth positions.
If Lloyds Banking Group was ranked below the median ninth or below the options would lapse.
Options granted in 2005 became exercisable as the performance condition was met when tested.
The performance condition vested at 82.5 per cent for all options granted.
210 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Movements in the number of share options outstanding under the executive share option schemes during 2008 and 2009 are set out below: 2009 2008 Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 11,203,628 490.05 20,621,774 480.57 Exercised 137,431 419.25 Forfeited 2,418,650 536.46 9,280,715 470.02 Outstanding at 31 December 8,784,978 476.56 11,203,628 490.05 Exercisable at 31 December 8,784,978 476.56 9,132,197 453.77 No options were exercised during 2009 therefore the weighted average share price was nil 2008: 4.53.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 4.3 years 2008: 5.1 years.
Save-As-You-Earn schemes Eligible employees may enter into contracts through the Save-As-You-Earn schemes to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years, have the option to use these savings within six months of the expiry of the fixed term to acquire shares in the Group at a discounted price of no less than 80 per cent of the market price at the start of the invitation.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding under the SAYE schemes are set out below: 2009 2008 Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 190,478,449 152.54 85,673,227 342.49 Adjustment on acquisition 53,755,275 300.91 Granted 215,737,733 173.80 Exercised 40,612,608 290.77 Forfeited 9,581,800 397.07 2,394,415 388.11 Cancelled 93,599,380 170.24 62,963,491 373.21 Expired 10,918,552 453.64 4,961,997 311.47 Outstanding at 31 December 130,133,992 157.84 190,478,449 152.54 Exercisable at 31 December 754,554 317.32 3,157,524 332.12 No options were exercised during 2009 therefore the weighted average share price was nil 2008: 3.70.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 2.7 years 2008: 3.4 years.
Similarly as no SAYE options were granted during the year, the weighted share price was nil 2008: 0.61.
The values for the SAYE options have been determined using a standard Black-Scholes model.
For the HBOS sharesave plan, no options were exercised during 2009 therefore the weighted average share price was nil.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had exercise prices in the range of 2.20 to 3.64 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.0 years.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 211 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued OTHER SHARE OPTION PLANS Lloyds TSB Group Executive Share Plan 2003 The plan was adopted in December 2003 and under the plan share options may be granted to senior employees.
Options granted under this plan have been granted specifically to facilitate recruitment and as such were not subject to any performance conditions.
The plan has now been extended to not only compensate new recruits for any lost share awards but also to make grants to key individuals for retention purposes with, in some instances, the grant being made subject to individual performance conditions.
2009 2008 Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 857,611 Nil 308,718 Nil Granted 24,704,070 Nil 681,931 Nil Rebasement adjustment 1,876,005 Nil Nil Exercised 157,105 Nil 117,236 Nil Forfeited 1,181,396 Nil 15,802 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 26,099,185 Nil 857,611 Nil Exercisable at 31 December 33,794 Nil Nil The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 0.68 2008: 2.92.
The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2009 was 0.71 2008: 2.91.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 3.0 years 2008: 2.5 years.
Options granted under this plan were adjusted on 2 July 2009 as a result of the Placing and Compensatory Open Offer.
The adjustment was made using a standard HMRC formula, to negate the dilutionary impact of the capital raising event.
HBOS share option plans The table below includes details of the outstanding options for the HBOS Share Option Plan, the St Jamess Place Share Option Plan, and the 1995 and 1996 Bank of Scotland Executive Stock Option schemes.
The final award under the HBOS Share Option Plan was made in 2004.
Under this plan, options over shares, at market value with a face value equal to 20 per cent of salary, were granted to employees with the exception of certain senior executives.
A separate option plan exists for some of the partners of St Jamess Place, which grants options in respect of Lloyds Banking Group plc shares.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding under these schemes are set out below: 2009 Weighted average Number of exercise price options pence Share option plans Outstanding at 16 January, date of acquisition of HBOS 13,040,430 670.01 Granted during the year 4,040,555 104.50 Exercised during the year Forfeited during the year 2,779,237 689.48 Outstanding at 31 December 14,301,748 506.46 Exercisable at 31 December 8,638,542 694.19 No options were exercised during 2009.
The options outstanding under the HBOS Share Option Plan and St Jamess Place Share Option Plan at 31 December 2009 had exercise prices in the range of 1.05 to 17.576 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years.
The options outstanding under the Bank of Scotland Executive Stock Option schemes at 31 December 2009 had exercise prices in the range of 8.834 to 10.009 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.8 years.
OTHER SHARE PLANS Lloyds TSB Long-Term Incentive Plan The Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP introduced in 2006 is aimed at delivering shareholder value by linking the receipt of shares to an improvement in the performance of the Group over a three year period.
Awards are made within limits set by the rules of the plan, with the limits determining the maximum number of shares that can be awarded equating to three times annual salary.
In exceptional circumstances this may increase to four times annual salary.
212 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The performance conditions for awards made in May and August 2006 are as follows: i For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the percentage increase in earnings per share of the Group on a compound annualised basis over the relevant period must be at least an average of 6 percentage points per annum greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
If it is less than 3 per cent per annum the EPS Award will lapse.
If the increase is more than 3 per cent but less than 6 per cent per annum then the proportion of shares released will be on a straight line basis between 17.5 per cent and 100 per cent.
The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2006 and ended on 31 December 2008. ii For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award it will be necessary for the Groups total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price to exceed the median of a comparator group 14 companies over the relevant period by an average of 7.5 per cent per annum for the TSR Award to vest in full.
17.5 per cent of the TSR Award will vest where the Groups total shareholder return is equal to median and vesting will occur on a straight line basis in between these points.
Where the Groups total shareholder return is below the median of the comparator group, the TSR Award will lapse.
The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2006 and ended on 31 December 2008.
When tested at the end of the relevant performance period, neither the EPS nor the TSR performance conditions were met and all awards made in 2006 lapsed.
The performance conditions for awards made in March and August 2007 are as follows: i For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the performance condition is as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 1 January 2007 and ending on 31 December 2009. ii For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award the performance condition is as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 8 March 2007 the date of the first award and ending on 7 March 2010.
The performance conditions for awards made in March, April, August and September 2008 are as follows: i For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the performance condition is as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 1 January 2008 and ending on 31 December 2010. ii For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award the performance condition is as described for May 2006, except that the comparator group comprises of 13 companies, with the relevant performance period commencing on 6 March 2008 the date of the first award and ending on 5 March 2011.
The current LTIP rules allow for awards to be made of up to 400 per cent of base salary.
Under normal circumstances awards are made of 300 per cent of salary with the additional 100 per cent available for circumstances that the remuneration committee deems to be exceptional.
In 2008, awards were made of 375 per cent of base salary to the chief executive and two of the executive directors for retention purposes, and in light of data reviewed by the committee which showed total remuneration to be behind median both for the FTSE 20, and the other major UK banks.
The performance conditions for awards made in April, May and September 2009 are as follows: i EPS: The release of 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the extent to which the growth in EPS achieves cumulative EPS targets over the three-year period.
ii Economic profit: The release of the remaining 50 per cent of shares will be dependent on the extent to which Lloyds Banking Group achieves cumulative economic profit targets over a three-year period.
The EPS and economic pro t performance measures applying to this 2009 LTIP award were set on the basis that the Group would enter into the Government Asset Protection Scheme GAPS.
Now that the Group is not participating in GAPS, the Remuneration Committee has determined that these performance measures be restated on a basis consistent with the EPS and economic pro t measures used for the 2010 LTIP awards.
In addition in 2009 an additional discretionary award was made in April, May and September 2009.
The performance conditions for those awards are as follows: i Synergy savings: The release of 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the achievement of target run-rate synergy savings in 2009 and 2010 as well as the achievement of sustainable synergy savings of at least 1.5 billion by the end of 2011.
The award will be broken down into three equally weighted annual tranches.
Performance will be assessed at the end of each year against annual performance targets based on a trajectory to meet the 2011 target.
The extent to which targets have been achieved will determine the proportion of shares to be banked each year.
Any release of shares will be subject to the remuneration committee judging the overall success of the delivery of the integration programme.
ii Integration balanced scorecard: The release of the remaining 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the outcome of a Balanced Scorecard of non-financial measures of the success of the integration in each of 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The Balanced scorecard element will be broken down into three equally weighted tranches.
The tranches will be crystallised and banked for each year of the performance cycle subject to separate annual performance targets across the four measurement categories of Building the Business, Customer, Risk and People and Organisation Development.
Performance against the first year of the award has been assessed and all targets have been met or exceeded.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 213 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued 2009 2008 Number of shares Number of shares Outstanding at 1 January 22,237,282 13,209,081 Granted 199,293,192 10,519,609 Rebasement adjustment 10,443,102 Forfeited 8,740,524 1,491,408 Outstanding at 31 December 223,233,052 22,237,282 The fair value of the share awards granted in 2009 was 0.68 2008: 2.28.
Conditional awards of shares made under this plan were adjusted on 2 July 2009 as a result of the placing and compensatory open offer.
Performance share plan Under the performance share plan, introduced during 2005, participating executives will be eligible for an award of free shares, known as performance shares, to match the bonus shares awarded as part of their 2004 and 2005 bonus.
The maximum match was two performance shares for each bonus share, awarded at the end of a three year period.
The actual number of shares awarded was dependent on the Groups total shareholder return performance measured over a three year period, compared to other companies in the comparator group.
The maximum of two performance shares for each bonus share was awarded only if the Groups total shareholder return performance placed it first in the comparator group: one performance share for each bonus share was granted if the Group was placed fifth: and one performance share for every two bonus shares if the Group was placed eighth median.
Between first and fifth position, and fifth and eighth position, sliding scales would apply.
If the total shareholder return performance was below median, no performance shares were awarded.
Whilst income tax and national insurance was deducted from the bonus before deferral into the plan, where a match of performance shares was justi ed, these shares were awarded as if income tax and national insurance had not been deducted.
The performance condition attached to the March 2006 award was not met, with Lloyds Banking Group ranked in ninth place.
Bonus shares were released on 20 March 2009, at which time the performance shares lapsed.
2009 2008 Number of shares Number of shares Outstanding at 1 January 941,324 1,767,594 Forfeited 74,691 Lapsed 941,324 375,790 Released 375,789 Outstanding at 31 December 941,324 The weighted average share price at the date the shares were released during 2008 was 4.4613.
The ranges of exercise prices, weighted average exercise prices, weighted average remaining contractual life and number of options outstanding for the option schemes were as follows: Executive schemes SAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of pence years options pence years options pence years options 31 December 2009 Exercise price range 0 to 1 Nil 3.1 26,099,185 1 to 2 139.00 2.5 107,939,699 104.50 2.3 4,019,026 2 to 3 220.98 3.9 18,054,765 3 to 4 349.18 2.0 2,842,644 394.64 5.2 721,886 4 to 5 464.19 4.9 7,526,441 427.04 1.8 1,296,884 499.91 0.2 273,986 5 to 6 552.02 0.2 515,527 573.60 0.6 53,328 6 to 7 653.55 1.2 743,010 640.00 0.0 2,388,026 7 to 8 707.40 0.2 6,845,496 214 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 50 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Executive schemes SAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of pence years options pence years options pence years options 31 December 2008 0 to 1 Nil 2.5 857,611 1 to 2 139.00 3.5 178,932,603 2 to 3 284.00 0.4 941,414 3 to 4 344.75 1.9 7,366,320 4 to 5 453.77 5.9 9,132,197 423.49 2.0 3,200,532 5 to 6 551.25 1.2 741,905 588.50 0.3 37,580 6 to 7 652.30 2.1 997,326 7 to 8 8 to 9 863.63 0.3 332,200 The fair value calculations at 31 December 2009 for grants made in the year are based on the following assumptions: Other option Other share SAYE schemes plans Risk-free interest rate Nil 2.01% 2.23% Expected life Nil 2.6 years 3.0 years Expected volatility Nil 90% 84% Expected dividend yield Nil 1.7% 1.8% Weighted average share price Nil 0.71 0.71 Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Nil Expected forfeitures Nil 4% 4% Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the Groups shares are expected to uctuate during the life of an option.
The expected volatility is estimated based on the historical volatility of the closing daily share price over the most recent period that is commensurate with the expected life of the option.
The historical volatility is compared to the implied volatility generated from market traded options in the Groups shares to assess the reasonableness of the historical volatility and adjustments made where appropriate.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN Free shares An award of shares may be made annually to employees based on a percentage of each employees salary in the preceding year up to a maximum of 3,000.
The percentage is normally announced concurrently with the Groups annual results and the price of the shares awarded is announced at the time of award.
The shares awarded are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees behalf.
The award is subject to a non-market based condition: if an employee leaves the Group within this three year period for other than a good reason, all of the shares awarded will be forfeited.
No free shares were awarded in 2009 2008: 8,862,823 shares, with an average fair value of 4.38 based on the market price at the date of award.
Matching shares The Group undertakes to match shares purchased by employees up to the value of 30 per month: these shares are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees behalf.
The award is subject to a non-market based condition: if an employee leaves within this three year period for other than a good reason, 100 per cent of the matching shares are forfeited.
Similarly if the employees sell their purchased shares within three years, their matching shares are forfeited.
The number of shares awarded relating to matching shares in 2009 was 16,746,310 2008: 4,475,264, with an average fair value of 0.69 2008: 2.56, based on market prices at the date of award.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 215 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity: the Groups key management personnel are the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc group executive committee together with its non-executive directors.
The table below details, on an aggregated basis, key management personnel compensation: 2009 2008 m m Compensation Salaries and other short-term bene ts 17 8 Post-employment bene ts 1 1 Share based payments 4 18 13 Aggregate contributions in respect of key management personnel to fide ned contribution pension schemes were 0.4 million 2008: 0.2 million.
2009 2008 million million Share options At 1 January 2 7 Granted exercised lapsed including options of former directors 5 At 31 December 2 2 2009 2008 million million Share incentive plans At 1 January 7 6 Granted including entitlements of appointed directors 17 3 Exercised lapsed including entitlements of former directors 5 2 At 31 December 19 7 The tables below detail, on an aggregated basis, balances outstanding at the year end and related income and expense, together with information relating to other transactions between the Group and its key management personnel: 2009 2008 m m Loans At 1 January 3 2 Advanced including loans of appointed directors 2 Repayments including loans of former directors 1 1 At 31 December 2 3 The loans are on both a secured and unsecured basis and are expected to be settled in cash.
The loans attracted interest rates of between 1.28 per cent and 24.90 per cent in 2009 2008: 2.14 per cent and 34.01 per cent.
No provisions have been recognised in respect of loans given to key management personnel 2008: nil.
216 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 51 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued 2009 2008 m m Deposits At 1 January 6 5 Placed including deposits of appointed directors 12 27 Withdrawn including deposits of former directors 14 26 At 31 December 4 6 Deposits placed by key management personnel attracted interest rates of up to 6.5 per cent 2008: 6.0 per cent.
At 31 December 2009, the Group did not provide any guarantees in respect of key management personnel 2008: none.
At 31 December 2009, transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by the Groups banking subsidiaries with directors and connected persons included amounts outstanding in respect of loans and credit card transactions of 2 million with seven directors and four connected persons 2008: 3 million with eight directors and six connected persons.
SUBSIDIARIES Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 9 to the parent company financial statements.
In accordance with IAS 27, transactions and balances with subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
On 16 January 2009, the Company acquired 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of HBOS plc.
From this date, HBOS plc and its subsidiaries became controlled entities.
HM TREASURY On 13 January 2009, HM Treasury subscribed for approximately 2,597 million shares in the Company which gave it a 30.2 per cent interest in the Companys ordinary share capital and consequently HM Treasury became a related party of the Company from this date.
On 16 January 2009, the Company acquired HBOS plc in an all share acquisition which, together with the shares subscribed for on 13 January 2009, gave HM Treasury a 43.4 per cent interest in the Companys ordinary share capital.
The material transactions entered into with HM Treasury from 13 January 2009 are described below: Capital transactions On 15 January 2009, the Company issued 1,000 million 12 per cent non-cumulative xed to oating rate preference shares to HM Treasury.
In addition, 3,000 million non-cumulative 12 per cent xed to oating rate preference shares were issued by the Company to HM Treasury on 16 January 2009 in exchange for the 3,000 million non-cumulative 12 per cent xed to oating rate preference shares which had been issued by HBOS plc to HM Treasury on 15 January 2009.
In June 2009 the Company issued 10,408 million new ordinary shares as part of a placing and compensatory open offer: HM Treasury subscribed for approximately 4,521 million of these new ordinary shares at a price of 38.43 pence per share.
As placees were procured for all the new ordinary shares for which valid acceptances were not received under the placing and compensatory open offer, HM Treasurys shareholding remained at 43.4 per cent.
The Company used the proceeds from this placing and compensatory open offer to redeem the 4,000 million preference shares issued by the Company to HM Treasury described above at 101 per cent of their issue price in accordance with the terms agreed with HM Treasury together with accrued dividends thereon.
In December 2009 the Company issued 36,505 million new ordinary shares in respect of a rights issue as part of an alternative to the Groups proposed participation in GAPS together with a liability management exercise.
The Company entered into an Undertaking to Subscribe agreement with HM Treasury whereby HM Treasury undertook, amongst other things, to take up its rights to subscribe for all of the new shares to which it was entitled under the rights issue.
HM Treasury subscribed for approximately 15,854 million new shares at a price of 37 pence per share.
As subscribers were procured for all the new ordinary shares for which valid acceptances were not received under the rights issue, HM Treasurys shareholding remained at 43.4 per cent.
In addition, the Group paid HM Treasury a commission payment of approximately 132 million in consideration, inter alia, of HM Treasurys pre-launch commitment to participate in full in respect of its entitlements under the rights issue.
Material related party agreements in connection with capital transactions In connection with the placing and compensatory open offer, an Open Offer Agreement dated 7 March 2009 was entered into between the Company and HM Treasury as amended and restated, amongst other things, to include certain other parties pursuant to which, amongst other things, HM Treasury agreed that, to the extent not placed or taken up under the compensatory open offer and subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Open Offer Agreement, HM Treasury would subscribe for the open offer shares itself at the issue price.
In consideration of the provision of its services under the Open Offer Agreement, the Company agreed to pay to HM Treasury i a commission of 0.5 per cent of the aggregate value of the open offer shares at the issue price: and ii a further commission of 1 per cent of the aggregate value of the open offer shares subscribed for by HM Treasury or by placees including HM Treasury at the issue price.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 217 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued The Company also agreed to i pay to each of HM Treasury, the joint sponsors and joint bookrunners all legal and other costs and expenses, and those of HM Treasurys financial advisors incurred in connection with the placing and compensatory open offer, the redemption of the preference shares or any arrangements referred to in the 2009 Open Offer Agreement: and ii bear all costs and expenses relating to the placing and compensatory open offer and the preference share redemption.
The costs and commissions incurred by the joint bookrunners in connection with the rump placing were deducted from the aggregate proceeds of the rump placing.
The Company also gave certain representations and warranties and indemnities to each of HM Treasury, the joint sponsors and joint bookrunners under the 2009 Open Offer Agreement.
The Companys liabilities thereunder are unlimited as to time and amount.
HM Treasury is entitled to novate its rights under the agreement to any entity that is wholly-owned, directly or indirectly, by HM Treasury.
Pursuant to its obligations to HM Treasury under the 2009 Open Offer Agreement, the Company entered into a Resale Rights Agreement with HM Treasury with effect from 11 June 2009, in which it agreed to provide its assistance to HM Treasury in connection with any proposed sale by HM Treasury of ordinary shares and other securities held by HM Treasury in the Company from time to time and of any securities caused by HM Treasury to be issued by any person which are exchangeable for, convertible into, give rights over or are referable to such ordinary shares or other securities issued by the Group, to be sold in such jurisdictions other than the United States and in such manner as HM Treasury may determine.
Such assistance may include the provision by the Company of assistance with due diligence and the preparation of marketing and such other documentation including any offering memorandum, whether or not a prospectus as HM Treasury may reasonably request.
Pursuant to its obligations under the open offer agreement entered into by the Company with effect from 13 October 2008, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with HM Treasury on 12 January 2009, granting customary demand and piggyback registration rights in the United States under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, to HM Treasury with respect to any ordinary shares of the Group held by HM Treasury.
Government Asset Protection Scheme The Company entered into a Pre-Accession Deed dated 7 March 2009 and a Lending Commitments Deed dated 6 March 2009 with HM Treasury both relating to the Companys proposed participation in GAPS.
Under the Lending Commitments Deed, the Company agreed to support lending to creditworthy borrowers in the UK in a commercial manner with effect from 1 March 2009 and agreed to increase lending by 14,000 million in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2009 to support UK businesses 11,000 million and homeowners 3,000 million and to maintain similar levels of lending in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2010, subject to adjustment to re ect circumstances at the start of the 12 month period commencing 1 March 2010.
This additional lending is expressed to be subject to the Groups prevailing terms and conditions including pricing and risk assessment and, in relation to mortgage lending, the Groups standard credit and other acceptance criteria.
Pursuant to the successful rights issue, the Company withdrew from its proposed participation in GAPS and on 3 November 2009, the Company entered into a GAPS Withdrawal Deed with HM Treasury pursuant to which, among other matters, the Company agreed that the Group would pay HM Treasury an amount of 2,500 million in recognition of the bene ts to the Groups trading operations arising as a result of HM Treasury proposing to make GAPS available to the Group.
The GAPS Withdrawal Deed contained certain undertakings given by the Group to HM Treasury in connection with the state aid approval obtained from the European Commission and its withdrawal from GAPS.
In particular, the Group is required to do all acts and things necessary to ensure the UK Governments compliance with its obligations under the European Commission decision approving state aid to the Group.
The Company also reaf rmed its lending commitments described above.
In addition, the Companys obligations under the Pre-Accession Deed referred to above other than its commitment to inform the UK Government of certain deleveraging activities was terminated pursuant to the GAPS Withdrawal Deed.
On 2 November 2009, the Group entered into a Cost Reimbursement Deed with HM Treasury under which the Group has agreed to pay for the UK Governments set-up costs relating to the proposed participation in GAPS and the UK Governments costs associated with the European Unions approval of state aid to the Group.
Credit Guarantee Scheme HM Treasury launched the Credit Guarantee Scheme in October 2008 as part of a range of measures announced by the UK Government intended to ease the turbulence in the UK banking system.
It charges a commercial fee for the guarantee of new short and medium-term debt issuance.
The fee payable to HM Treasury on guaranteed issues is based on a per annum rate of 50 basis points plus the median five-year Credit Default Swap spread.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had 49,070 million of debt issued under the CGS.
During the year, fees of 498 million payable to HM Treasury in respect of guaranteed funding were included in the Groups income statement.
There were no other material transactions between the Group and HM Treasury during the period between 13 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 that were not made in the ordinary course of business or that are unusual in their nature or conditions.
218 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 51 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Pensions funds At 31 December 2009, customer deposits of 99 million 2008: 23 million and investment and insurance contract liabilities of 691 million 2008: nil related to the Groups pension funds.
OEICs The Group manages 382 2008: 105 Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs, and of these 108 2008: 47 are consolidated.
The Group invested 1,271 million 2008: 455 million and redeemed 1,076 million 2008: 343 million in the unconsolidated OEICs during the year and had investments, at fair value, of 6,954 million 2008: 2,661 million at 31 December.
The Group earned fees of 217 million from the unconsolidated OEICs 2008: 206 million.
The Company held no investments in OEICs at any time during 2008 or 2009.
Joint ventures and associates In the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group provided both administration and processing services to its principal joint venture, Sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts receivable by the Group during the year were 34 million 2008: nil, of which 10 million was outstanding at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
At 31 December 2009, Sainsburys Bank plc also had balances with the Group that were included in loans and advances to banks of 1,218 million 2008: nil and deposits by banks of 1,405 million 2008: nil.
At 31 December 2009 there were loans and advances to customers of 12,235 million 2008: nil outstanding and balances within customer deposits of 254 million 2008: nil relating to other joint ventures and associates.
In addition to the above balances, the Group has a number of other associates held by its venture capital business that it accounts for at fair value through pro t or loss.
At 31 December 2009, these companies had total assets of approximately 14,840 million 2008: 5,838 million, total liabilities of approximately 15,300 million 2008: 5,780 million and for the year ended 31 December 2009 had turnover of approximately 10,570 million 2008: 2,088 million and made a net loss of approximately 572 million 2008: net loss of 80 million.
In addition, the Group has provided 6,014 million 2008: 825 million of nancing to these companies on which it received 191 million 2008: 46 million of interest income in the year.
52 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE In January 2009, the UK Competition Commission the Competition Commission completed its formal investigation into the supply of Payment Protection Insurance PPI services except store card PPI to non-business customers in the UK and published its final report setting out its remedies.
Prior to this the Group had made the commercial decision to sell only regular monthly premium PPI to its personal loan customers.
The Competition Commission decided to adopt various remedies including a prohibition on the active sale of PPI by a distributor to a customer within seven days of the distributors sale of credit to that customer.
On 30 March 2009, Barclays Bank plc lodged an appeal in the UK Competition Appeal Tribunal the Competition Appeal Tribunal against the Competition Commissions findings.
Lloyds Banking Group was granted permission by the Competition Appeal Tribunal to intervene in the appeal.
The Competition Appeal Tribunal handed down its judgment on 16 October 2009 nding in favour of Barclays in respect of its challenge to the Competition Commissions prohibition of distributors selling PPI at the credit point of sale but it did not uphold Barclays challenge to the Competition Commissions findings on market fide nition.
The matter has now been referred back to the Competition Commission.
This may or may not result in the Competition Commission ultimately reaching a different conclusion.
On 1 July 2008 the Financial Ombudsman Service referred concerns regarding the handling of PPI complaints to the FSA as an issue of wider implication.
The Group has been working with other industry members and trade associations in preparing an industry response to address regulatory concerns regarding the handling of PPI complaints.
On 29 September 2009, the FSA issued a consultation paper on PPI complaints handling.
The FSA has escalated its regulatory activity in relation to past PPI sales generally and has proposed new guidance on the fair assessment of a complaint and the calculation of redress and a new rule requiring rms to reassess historically rejected complaints.
The statement on 29 September 2009 also announced that several rms had agreed to carry out reviews of past sales of single premium loan protection insurance.
The Group has subsequently agreed in principle that it will undertake a review in relation to sales of single premium loan protection insurance made through its branch network since 1 July 2007.
The precise details of the review are still being discussed with the FSA.
The ultimate impact on the Group of any review and or reassessment can only be known at the conclusion of these discussions and on publication of the FSAs final rules.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 219 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 52 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS continued US ECONOMIC SANCTIONS Starting in 2007 Lloyds TSB Bank plc provided information in relation to its review of historic US Dollar payments involving countries, persons or entities subject to US economic sanctions administered by the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC to a number of authorities reported to be conducting a review of sanctions compliance by non-US financial institutions.
On 9 January 2009 the settlement reached by Lloyds TSB Bank plc with both the US Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorneys Of ce in relation to their investigations was announced.
The settlement documentation contains details of the results of the investigations including the identi cation of certain activities relating to Iran, Sudan and Libya which Lloyds TSB Bank plc conducted during the relevant period.
In 2008, Lloyds TSB Bank plc made a provision of 180 million which fully covered the settlement amount paid to the Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorneys Of ce.
On 22 December 2009 OFAC announced the settlement it had reached with Lloyds TSB Bank plc in relation to its investigation and con rmed that the settlement sum due to OFAC had been fully satis ed by Lloyds TSB Bank plcs payment to the Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorneys Of ce.
No further enforcement actions are expected in relation to the matters set out in the settlement agreements.
A purported shareholder led a derivative civil action in the Supreme Court of New York, Nassau County on 26 February 2009 against certain current and former directors, and nominally against the Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Lloyds Banking Group, seeking various forms of relief following the settlement.
The derivative action is at a very early stage but the ultimate outcome of the action is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
INTERCHANGE FEES The European Commission has adopted a formal decision nding that an infringement of European Commission competition laws has arisen from arrangements whereby MasterCard issuers charged a uniform fallback interchange fee in respect of cross-border transactions in relation to the use of a MasterCard or Maestro branded payment card.
The European Commission has required that the fee be reduced to zero for relevant cross-border transactions within the European Economic Area.
This decision has been appealed to the General Court of the European Union the General Court.
Bank of Scotland plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc along with certain other MasterCard issuers have successfully applied to intervene in the appeal in support of MasterCards position that the arrangements for the charging of a uniform fallback interchange fee are compatible with European Commission competition laws.
Meanwhile, the European Commission and the UKs OFT are pursuing investigations with a view to deciding whether arrangements adopted by other payment card schemes for the levying of uniform fallback interchange fees in respect of domestic and or cross-border payment transactions also infringe European Commission and or UK competition laws.
As part of this initiative the OFT will also intervene in the General Court appeal supporting the European Commissions position.
The ultimate impact of the investigations on the Group can only be known at the conclusion of these investigations and any relevant appeal proceedings.
UNARRANGED OVERDRAFT CHARGES The Supreme Court published its judgment in respect of the fairness of unarranged overdraft charges on personal current accounts on 25 November 2009, nding in favour of the litigant banks.
On 22 December 2009, the OFT announced that it will not continue its investigation into the fairness of these charges.
The Group is working with the regulators to ensure that outstanding customer complaints are concluded as quickly as possible and anticipate that most cases in the county courts will be discontinued.
The Group expects that some customers will argue that despite the test case ruling they are entitled to a refund of unarranged overdraft charges on the basis of other legal arguments or challenges.
The Group would robustly defend any such complaints or claims and does not expect the outcome of any such complaints or claims to have a material adverse effect on its financial position.
OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In addition, during the ordinary course of business the Group is subject to threatened or actual legal proceedings both in the UK and overseas.
All such material cases are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external professional advisors where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability.
In those instances where it is concluded that it is more likely than not that a payment will be made, a provision is established to managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the relevant balance sheet date.
In some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases.
However the Group does not currently expect the final outcome of any such case to have a material adverse effect on its financial position.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS ARISING FROM THE BANKING BUSINESS Acceptances and endorsements arise where Lloyds Banking Group agrees to guarantee payment on a negotiable instrument drawn up by a customer.
Other items serving as direct credit substitutes include standby letters of credit, or other irrevocable obligations, where Lloyds Banking Group has an irrevocable obligation to pay a third party bene ciary if the customer fails to repay an outstanding commitment: they also include acceptances drawn under letters of credit or similar facilities where the acceptor does not have speci c title to an identi able underlying shipment of goods.
Performance bonds and other transaction-related contingencies which include bid or tender bonds, advance payment guarantees, VAT Customs & Excise bonds and standby letters of credit relating to a particular contract or nonfinancial transaction are undertakings where the requirement to make payment under the guarantee depends on the outcome of a future event.
Lloyds Banking Groups maximum exposure to loss is represented by the contractual nominal amount detailed in the table below.
Consideration has not been taken of any possible recoveries from customers for payments made in respect of such guarantees under recourse provisions or from collateral held.
220 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 52 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS continued 2009 2008 m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 59 49 Other: Other items serving as direct credit substitutes 1,494 1,870 Performance bonds and other transaction-related contingencies 4,555 2,850 6,049 4,720 6,108 4,769 The contingent liabilities of the Group, as detailed above, arise in the normal course of its banking business and it is not practicable to quantify their future financial effect.
2009 2008 m m Commitments Documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 288 319 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 758 613 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: Less than 1 year original maturity: Mortgage offers made 9,058 3,056 Other commitments 64,786 46,006 73,844 49,062 1 year or over original maturity 53,693 31,761 128,583 81,755 Of the amounts shown above in respect of undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, 74,477 million 2008: 46,890 million was irrevocable.
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Where a Group company is the lessee the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable premises operating leases are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Not later than 1 year 392 216 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,213 647 Later than 5 years 1,817 774 3,422 1,637 Operating lease payments represent rental payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Some of these operating lease arrangements have renewal options and rent escalation clauses, although the effect of these is not material.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Excluding commitments in respect of investment property note 26, capital expenditure contracted but not provided for at 31 December 2009 amounted to 203 million 2008: 92 million.
Of this amount, 198 million 2008: 85 million related to assets to be leased to customers under operating leases.
The Groups management is con dent that future net revenues and funding will be suf cient to cover these commitments.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 221 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 1 MEASUREMENT BASIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The accounting policies in note 2 describe how different classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category and by balance sheet heading.
At fair value through pro t or loss Derivatives designated Designated Held at as hedging Held for upon initial AvailableLoans and amortised Insurance instruments trading recognition for-sale receivables cost contracts Total m m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 38,994 38,994 Items in the course of collection from banks 1,579 1,579 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 27,245 122,766 150,011 Derivative financial instruments 9,430 40,498 49,928 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 35,361 35,361 Loans and advances to customers 626,969 626,969 Debt securities 32,652 32,652 694,982 694,982 Available-for-sale financial assets 46,602 46,602 Total financial assets 9,430 67,743 122,766 46,602 694,982 40,573 982,096 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 82,452 82,452 Customer deposits 406,741 406,741 Items in course of transmission to banks 1,037 1,037 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 22,111 6,160 28,271 Derivative financial instruments 8,687 31,798 40,485 Debt securities in issue 233,502 233,502 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 76,179 76,179 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 46,348 46,348 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 1,082 1,082 Subordinated liabilities 34,727 34,727 Total financial liabilities 8,687 53,909 6,160 758,459 123,609 950,824 222 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued At fair value through pro t or loss Derivatives designated Designated Held at as hedging Held for upon initial AvailableLoans and amortised Insurance instruments trading recognition for-sale receivables cost contracts Total m m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,008 5,008 Items in the course of collection from banks 946 946 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 857 44,207 45,064 Derivative financial instruments 435 28,449 28,884 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 38,733 38,733 Loans and advances to customers 240,344 240,344 Debt securities 4,416 4,416 283,493 283,493 Available-for-sale financial assets 55,707 55,707 Total financial assets 435 29,306 44,207 55,707 283,493 5,954 419,102 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 66,514 66,514 Customer deposits 170,938 170,938 Items in course of transmission to banks 508 508 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 6 6,748 6,754 Derivative financial instruments 4,169 22,723 26,892 Debt securities in issue 75,710 75,710 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 33,792 33,792 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 14,243 14,243 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 270 270 Subordinated liabilities 17,256 17,256 Total financial liabilities 4,169 22,729 6,748 330,926 48,305 412,877 2 RECLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS In accordance with the amendment to IAS39 that became applicable during 2008, the Group reviewed the categorisation of its financial assets classi ed as held for trading and available-for-sale.
On the basis that there was no longer an active market for some of those assets, which are therefore more appropriately managed as loans, with effect from 1 July 2008, the Group transferred 2,993 million of assets previously classi ed as held for trading into loans and receivables.
With effect from 1 November 2008, the Group transferred 437 million of assets previously classi ed as available-for-sale into loans and receivables.
At the time of these transfers, the Group had the intention and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
As at the date of reclassi cation, the weighted average effective interest rate of the assets transferred was 6.3 per cent with the estimated recoverable cash ows of 3,524 million.
No assets have been reclassi ed in 2009.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 223 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Carrying amount and fair values of reclassi ed assets The table below sets out the carrying value and fair value of reclassi ed financial assets.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables 1,833 1,822 2,883 2,926 From available-for-sale financial assets to loans and receivables 394 422 454 402 2,227 2,244 3,337 3,328 During the year ended 31 December 2009, the carrying value of reclassi ed assets decreased by 1,110 million due to sales and maturities of 990 million, accretion of discount of 61 million and foreign exchange and other movements of 181 million.
Additional fair value gains losses that would have been recognised had the reclassi cations not occurred The table below shows the additional gains losses that would have been recognised in the Groups income statement if the reclassi cations had not occurred.
2009 2008 Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in 2009 2008 Total 2008 Total m m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables 208 208 347 347 The table below shows the additional gains losses that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the reclassi cations had not occurred.
2009 2008 Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in 2009 2008 Total 2008 Total m m m m m From available-for-sale financial assets to loans and receivables 161 161 108 108 Actual amounts recognised in respect of reclassi ed assets After reclassi cation the reclassi ed financial assets contributed the following amounts to the Group income statement.
2009 2008 Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in 2009 2008 Total 2008 Total m m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables: Net interest income 5555 31 31 Impairment losses 49 49 158 158 66 127 127 2009 2008 Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in Reclassi ed in 2009 2008 Total 2008 Total m m m m m From available-for-sale financial assets to loans and receivables: Net interest income 3434 33 Impairment losses 56 56 23 23 22 22 20 20 224 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 3 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The following table summarises the carrying values of financial assets and liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair values presented in the table are at a speci c date and may be signi cantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on the maturity or settlement date.
Carrying value Carrying value Fair value Fair value 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Financial assets Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 150,011 45,064 150,011 45,064 Derivative financial instruments 49,928 28,884 49,928 28,884 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 35,361 38,733 35,335 37,954 Loans and advances to customers 626,969 240,344 609,647 235,569 Debt securities 32,652 4,416 31,907 3,931 Available-for-sale financial assets 46,602 55,707 46,602 55,707 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 82,452 66,514 82,366 66,504 Customer deposits 406,741 170,938 406,555 171,119 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 28,271 6,754 28,271 6,754 Derivative financial instruments 40,485 26,892 40,485 26,892 Debt securities in issue 233,502 75,710 235,170 76,291 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 46,348 14,243 46,348 14,243 Financial guarantees 38 35 38 35 Subordinated liabilities 34,727 17,256 33,660 11,199 VALUATION METHODOLOGY Financial instruments include financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Wherever possible, fair values have been calculated using unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for identical instruments held by the Group.
Where quoted market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs.
Valuation techniques used include discounted cash ow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison to instruments with characteristics similar to those of the instruments held by the Group.
Because a variety of estimation techniques are employed and signi cant estimates made, comparisons of fair values between financial institutions may not be meaningful.
Readers of these financial statements are thus advised to use caution when using this data to evaluate the Groups financial position.
Fair value information is not provided for items that do not meet the fide nition of a financial instrument.
These items include intangible assets, such as the value of the Groups branch network, the long-term relationships with depositors and credit card relationships: premises and equipment: and shareholders equity.
These items are material and accordingly the Group believes that the fair value information presented does not represent the underlying value of the Group.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST Loans and receivables The Group provides loans and advances to commercial, corporate and personal customers at both xed and variable rates.
The carrying value of the variable rate loans and those relating to lease nancing is assumed to be their fair value.
For xed rate lending, several different techniques are used to estimate fair value, as considered appropriate.
For commercial and personal customers, fair value is principally estimated by discounting anticipated cash ows including interest at contractual rates at market rates for similar loans offered by the Group and other financial institutions.
The fair value for corporate loans is estimated by discounting anticipated cash ows at a rate which re ects the effects of interest rate changes, adjusted for changes in credit risk.
Certain loans secured on residential properties are made at a xed rate for a limited period, typically two to five years, after which the loans revert to the relevant variable rate.
The fair value of such loans is estimated by reference to the market rates for similar loans of maturity equal to the remaining xed interest rate period.
The fair values of asset-backed securities and secondary loans, which were previously within assets held for trading and were reclassi ed to loans and receivables see page 222, are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 225 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Deposits from banks and customer deposits The fair value of deposits repayable on demand is considered to be equal to their carrying value.
The fair value for all other deposits is estimated using discounted cash ows applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities The fair value of short-term debt securities in issue is approximately equal to their carrying value.
Fair value for other debt securities and for subordinated liabilities is estimated using quoted market prices.
VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE The table below provides an analysis of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group that are carried at fair value in the Groups consolidated balance sheet, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Valuation hierarchy At 31 December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 103,853 43,246 2,912 150,011 Available-for-sale financial assets 12,881 31,110 2,611 46,602 Derivative financial instruments 977 47,014 1,937 49,928 Financial assets 117,711 121,370 7,460 246,541 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 511 27,760 28,271 Derivative financial instruments 66 40,222 197 40,485 Financial guarantees 38 38 Financial liabilities 577 67,982 235 68,794 There were no signi cant transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year.
At 31 December 2008 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 38,019 5,373 1,672 45,064 Available-for-sale financial assets 30,184 22,362 3,161 55,707 Derivative financial instruments 2,147 26,601 136 28,884 Financial assets 70,350 54,336 4,969 129,655 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 6 6,748 6,754 Derivative financial instruments 153 26,161 578 26,892 Financial guarantees 35 35 Financial liabilities 159 32,909 613 33,681 The valuations of financial instruments have been classi ed into three levels according to the quality and reliability of information used to determine the fair values.
Level 1 portfolios level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Products classi ed as level 1 predominantly comprise treasury bills and other government securities.
Level 2 portfolios level 2 valuations are those where quoted market prices are not available, for example where the instrument is traded in a market that is not considered to be active or valuation techniques are used to determine fair value and where these techniques use inputs that are based signi cantly on observable market data, the instrument is considered to be level 2.
Examples of such financial instruments include most over-the-counter derivatives, financial institution issued securities, certi cates of deposit and certain asset-backed securities.
Level 3 portfolios level 3 portfolios are those where at least one input which could have a signi cant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Such instruments would include the Groups venture capital and unlisted equity investments which are valued using various valuation techniques that require signi cant management judgement in determining appropriate assumptions, including earnings multiples and estimated future cash ows.
Certain of the Groups asset-backed securities and derivatives, principally where there is no trading activity in such securities, are also classi ed as level 3.
226 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued At 31 December 2009 Effect of reasonably possible alternative Carrying value assumptions Valuation basis technique Main assumptions m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss Asset-backed securities Lead manager or broker quote Use of single pricing source 970 74 consensus pricing from market data provider Venture capital investments Various valuation techniques Earnings multiples 1,162 n a using IPEV Guidelines Equity investments Various valuation techniques Earnings, net asset value, 234 n a underlying asset values, property prices, forecast cash ows Unlisted equities and property partnerships Third party valuations n a 546 n a in the life funds 2,912 Available-for-sale financial assets Asset-backed securities Lead manager or broker quote Use of single pricing source 744 10 consensus pricing from market data provider Equity investments Various valuation techniques Earnings, net asset value, 1,867 n a underlying asset values, property prices, forecast cash ows 2,611 Derivative financial instruments Industry standard model Prepayment rates, probability of 1,937 96 consensus pricing from market default, loss given default and data provider yield curves.
Equity conversion feature spread Financial assets 7,460 Derivative financial liabilities Industry standard model Prepayment rates, probability of 197 8 consensus pricing from market default, loss given default and data provider yield curves Financial guarantees 38 n a Financial liabilities 235 Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been calculated for asset-backed securities by using alternative pricing sources and calculating an absolute difference.
In respect of derivative financial instruments, reasonably possible alternative valuations have been calculated by exing the spread between the underlying asset and the credit derivative, or adjusting market yields, by a reasonable amount.
The valuation techniques used for unlisted equities and venture capital investments vary depending on the nature of the investment.
Further details of these are given below.
Third party valuers have been used to determine the value of unlisted equities and property partnerships included in the Groups life insurance funds.
As these factors differ for each investment depending on the nature of the valuation technique used and the inputs there is no single common factor that could be adjusted to provide a reasonable alternative valuation for these investments portfolios.
The main products where level 3 valuations have been used are described below: Asset-backed securities Where there is no trading activity in asset-backed securities, valuation models, consensus pricing information from third party pricing services and broker or lead manager quotes are used to determine an appropriate valuation.
Asset-backed securities are then classi ed as either level 2 or level 3 depending on whether there is more than one consistent independent source of data.
If there is a single, uncorroborated market source for a signi cant valuation input or where there are materially inconsistent levels then the valuation is reported as level 3.
Asset classes classi ed as level 3 mainly comprise certain Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities, Collateralised Loan Obligations and Collateralised Debt Obligations.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 227 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Venture capital investments The investments in venture capital activities comprise interests in funds and unlisted equity investments that are valued using techniques that are considered appropriate for that investment.
Interests in funds are valued in the same manner as investments in the life funds below.
Valuations of unlisted venture capital equities that are accounted for as trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss are calculated using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines.
The majority of investments are valued using the industry standard earnings model.
This involves applying the relevant earnings multiple to the maintainable earnings of the business being valued.
A number of earnings multiples are used in valuing the portfolio including price earnings, earnings before interest and tax and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The particular multiple selected being appropriate for the type of business being valued and is derived by reference to the current market-based multiple.
Consideration is given to the risk attributes, growth prospects and financial gearing of comparable businesses when selecting an appropriate multiple.
Recent transactions involving the sale of similar businesses may sometimes be used as a frame of reference in deriving an appropriate multiple.
Another valuation technique involved, although rarely, is the discounting of projected cash ows at the appropriate cost of capital.
Equity investments Unlisted equities and funds accounted for as available-for-sale assets are valued using different techniques as a result of the variety of investments across the portfolio.
A valuation technique is selected for each investment in accordance with the Groups valuation policy.
Depending on the business sector and the circumstances of the investment unlisted equity valuations are based on earnings multiples, net asset values or discounted cash ows.
The earnings multiple methodology is described in the section on venture capital investments above.
Valuations using net asset values are often used for property-based businesses and use the latest valuations included in management or statutory accounts adjusted for subsequent movements in property valuations and other factors including recoverability.
Discounted cash ow valuations use estimated future cash ows, usually based on management forecasts, with the application of appropriate exit yields or terminal multiples and discounted using rates appropriate to the speci c investment, business sector or recent economic rates of return.
For fund investments the most recent capital account value calculated by the fund manager is used as the basis for the valuation and adjusted, if necessary, to align valuation techniques with the Groups valuation policy.
Unquoted equities and property partnerships in the life funds Third party valuations are used to obtain the fair value of unquoted investments.
Management take account of any pertinent information, such as recent transactions and information received on particular investments, to adjust the third party valuations where necessary.
Derivatives Where the Groups derivative assets and liabilities are not traded on an exchange, they are valued using valuation techniques, including discounted cash ow and options pricing models, as appropriate.
The types of derivatives classi ed as level 2 and the valuation techniques used include: Interest rate swaps are valued using discounted cash ow models: the most signi cant inputs into those models are interest rate yield curves which are developed from publicly quoted rates.
Foreign exchange derivatives that do not contain options are priced using rates available from publicly quoted sources.
Credit derivatives, except for the items classi ed as level 3, are valued using publicly available yield and credit default swap CDS curves: the Group uses standard models with observable inputs.
Less complex interest rate and foreign exchange option products are valued using volatility surfaces developed from publicly available interest rate cap, interest rate swaption and other option volatilities: option volatility skew information is derived from a market standard consensus pricing service.
For more complex option products, the Group calibrates its models using observable at-the-money data: where necessary, the Group adjusts for out-of-the-money positions using a market standard consensus pricing service.
Where credit protection, usually in the form of credit default swaps, has been purchased or written on asset-backed securities, the security is referred to as a negative basis ABS and the resulting derivative assets or liabilities have been classi ed as either level 2 or level 3 according to the classi cation of the underlying ABS.
The Groups level 3 derivatives include 1,797 million in respect of the value of the embedded equity conversion feature of the enhanced capital notes issued in December 2009.
Level 3 derivatives also include 140 million of credit default swaps written on level 3 negative basis ABS and 197 million of embedded derivatives included in investments of synthetic CDOs.
The embedded equity conversion feature is valued by comparing the market price of the ECNs with the market price of similar bonds without the conversion feature.
The latter is calculated by discounting the expected ECN cash ows in the absence of a conversion using prevailing market yields for similar capital securities without the conversion feature.
The market price of the ECNs was calculated with reference to multiple broker quotes.
Movements in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in net trading income.
228 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued CREDIT VALUATION ADJUSTMENT A Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA is applied to the Groups over-the-counter corporate derivative exposures to adjust the counterparty credit risk-free derivative valuations provided by standard interbank lending interest rate curves.
The Group uses a simulation model to develop expected future exposures and calculate a pricing reserve based on the relative credit spread of the counterparty compared to the Group.
At 31 December 2009 the CVA balance was 663 million 31 December 2008 203 million.
This adjustment has been made to the valuation of over-the-counter derivative instruments classi ed as level 2.
Observable CDS spreads and recovery rates are used to develop the probability of default for quoted clients.
Observable sector CDS curves and recovery rates are used for unquoted clients.
The Loss Given Default LGD is based on observable recovery rates and internal credit assessments.
The combination of a one notch deterioration in credit rating of derivative counterparties and a 10 per cent increase in LGD increases the CVA charge by 181 million.
Current market value is used to estimate the projected exposure for products not supported by the model.
For these, CVA is calculated on an add-on basis in total contributing 10 per cent of the overall CVA balance at 31 December 2009.
A separate reserve of 43 million is held against features not supported by the current CVA model including rate credit and wrong-way risk where exposure to the counterparty is adversely correlated with the credit quality of the counterparty.
A separate provision of 25 million is held against pricing risk on collateralised counterparties.
In addition, credit valuation adjustments have been applied to the Groups credit derivative exposures with monoline insurance counterparties leaving a net exposure of 75 million as shown in note 54 on page 239.
MOVEMENTS IN LEVEL 3 PORTFOLIO The table below analyses movements in the Level 3 financial assets portfolio.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through AvailableDerivative Total financial pro t or loss for-sale assets assets m m m m At 31 December 2008 1,672 3,161 136 4,969 Exchange and other adjustments 232 205 74 363 Acquired on acquisition 3,386 2,291 569 6,246 Gains losses recognised in the income statement 114 452 1,005 1,571 Gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 191 191 Purchases 374 422 2,224 3,020 Sales 465 671 61 1,197 Transfers into the Level 3 portfolio 33 48 81 Transfers out of the Level 3 portfolio 1,742 2,174 3,916 At 31 December 2009 2,912 2,611 1,937 7,460 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 229 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The table below analyses movements in the Level 3 financial liabilities portfolio.
Derivative Financial Total financial liabilities guarantees liabilities m m m At 31 December 2008 578 35 613 Exchange and other adjustments 179 179 Acquired on acquisition 1,102 1,102 Gains recognised in the income statement 47 47 Additions 33 Redemptions 474 474 Transfers out of the Level 3 portfolio 783 783 At 31 December 2009 197 38 235 Transfers out of the Level 3 portfolio arise when inputs that could have a signi cant impact on the instruments valuation become market observable after previously having been non-market observable.
In the case of asset-backed securities this can arise if more than one consistent independent source of data becomes available.
Conversely transfers into the portfolio arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
Included within the gains losses recognised in the income statement are losses of 1,542 million related to financial instruments that are held in the Level 3 portfolio at the year end.
These amounts are included in other operating income.
54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT As a bancassurer, financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups activities and, as a consequence, the risks associated with financial instruments represent a signi cant component of the risks faced by the Group.
The primary risks affecting the Group through its use of financial instruments are: credit risk: market risk, which includes interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk: and liquidity risk.
Information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the Groups management of capital can be found on pages 56 to 94.
The following additional disclosures, which provide quantitative information about the risks within financial instruments held or issued by the Group, should be read in conjunction with that earlier information.
1 INTEREST RATE RISK In the Groups retail banking business interest rate risk arises from the different repricing characteristics of the assets and liabilities.
Liabilities are either insensitive to interest rate movements, for example interest free or very low interest customer deposits, or are sensitive to interest rate changes but bear rates which may be varied at the Groups discretion and that for competitive reasons generally re ect changes in the Bank of Englands base rate.
There is a relatively small volume of deposits whose rate is contractually xed for their term to maturity.
Many banking assets are sensitive to interest rate movements: there is a large volume of managed rate assets such as variable rate mortgages which may be considered as a natural offset to the interest rate risk arising from the managed rate liabilities.
However, a signi cant proportion of the Groups lending assets, for example personal loans and mortgages, bear interest rates which are contractually xed for periods of up to five years or longer.
The Group establishes two types of hedge accounting relationships for interest rate risk: fair value hedges and cash ow hedges.
The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk on its xed rate customer loans, its xed rate customer deposits and the majority of its subordinated debt, and to cash ow interest rate risk on its variable rate loans and deposits together with its oating rate subordinated debt.
The majority of the Groups hedge accounting relationships are fair value hedges where interest rate swaps are used to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the xed rate mortgage portfolio.
At 31 December 2009 the aggregate notional principal of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges was 80,085 million 2008: 37,243 million with a net fair value asset of 3,004 million 2008: liability of 1,231 million note 18.
The losses on the hedging instruments were 995 million 2008: losses of 584 million.
The gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were 1,181 million 2008: gains of 426 million.
In addition the Group has cash ow hedges which are primarily used to hedge the variability in the cost of funding within the wholesale business.
These cash ows are expected to occur over the next six years and the hedge accounting adjustments will be reported in the income statement as the cash ows arise.
The notional principal of the interest rate swaps designated as cash ow hedges at 31 December 2009 was 222,548 million 2008: 867 million with a net fair value liability of 2,536 million 2008: 90 million note 18.
In 2009, there is no ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement that arises from cash ow hedges 2008: nil.
There were no transactions for which cash ow hedge accounting had to be ceased in 2009 or 2008 as a result of the highly probable cash ows no longer being expected to occur.
230 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 2 CURRENCY RISK Foreign exchange exposures comprise those originating in treasury trading activities and structural foreign exchange exposures, which arise from investment in the Groups overseas operations.
The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled.
These risks reside in the authorised trading centres who are allocated exposure limits.
The limits are monitored daily by the local centres and reported to the market and liquidity risk function in London.
Associated VaR and the closing, average, maximum and minimum for 2008 and 2009 are disclosed on page 77.
Risk arises from the Groups investments in its overseas operations.
The Groups structural foreign currency exposure is represented by the net asset value of the foreign currency equity and subordinated debt investments in its subsidiaries and branches.
Gains or losses on structural foreign currency exposures are taken to reserves.
The Group hedges part of the currency translation risk of the net investment in certain foreign operations using cross currency swaps and borrowings.
At 31 December 2009 the aggregate notional principal of these cross currency swaps was 2,507 million 2008: 6,318 million with a net fair value asset of 25 million 2008: liability of 2,413 million note 18 and they were designated on an after-tax basis as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
In 2009, ineffectiveness of nil before tax and nil after tax 2008: ineffectiveness of 14 million before tax and 10 million after tax was recognised in the income statement arising from net investment hedges.
The Groups main overseas operations are in the Americas, Asia, Australasia and Europe.
Details of the Groups structural foreign currency exposures, after net investment hedges, are as follows: Functional currency of Group operations 2009 2008 m m Euro: Gross exposure 2,764 133 Net investment hedge 2,651 113 133 US dollar: Gross exposure 184 907 Net investment hedge 62 122 907 Swiss franc: Gross exposure 2,552 2,784 Net investment hedge 2,467 2,663 85 121 Australian dollar: Gross exposure 1,869 Net investment hedge 1,832 37 Japanese yen: Gross exposure 3,220 3,667 Net investment hedge 3,207 3,645 13 22 Other non-sterling 316 296 442 335 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 231 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 3 CREDIT RISK The Groups credit risk exposure arises predominantly in the United Kingdom, the European Union, Australia and the United States.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations is detailed below.
No account is taken of any collateral held and the maximum exposure to loss is considered to be the balance sheet carrying amount or, for non-derivative off-balance sheet transactions and financial guarantees, their contractual nominal amounts.
2009 2008 m m Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 35,510 38,868 Loans and advances to customers 641,770 243,803 Debt securities 33,082 4,549 1 Deposit amounts available for offset 13,373 4,837 Impairment allowances 15,380 3,727 681,609 278,656 Available-for-sale financial assets excluding equity shares 44,571 55,666 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss excluding equity shares 65,861 21,790 Derivative assets, before netting 49,928 28,884 1 Amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements 21,698 10,598 28,230 18,286 Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 1,875 385 Financial guarantees 18,021 10,382 2 Irrevocable loan commitments and other credit-related contingencies 80,585 51,659 Maximum credit risk exposure 920,752 436,824 Maximum credit risk exposure before offset items 955,823 452,259 1 Deposit amounts available for offset and amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements do not meet the criteria under IAS 32 to enable loans and advances and derivative assets respectively to be presented net of these balances in the financial statements.
2 See note 52 Contingent liabilities and commitments for further information.
A general description of collateral held in respect of financial instruments is disclosed on page 65.
Loans and advances to banks the Group may require collateral before entering into a credit commitment with another bank, depending on the type of the financial product and the counterparty involved, and netting agreements are obtained whenever possible and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
Available-for-sale debt securities, treasury and other bills, and trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss the credit quality of the Groups available-for-sale debt securities, treasury and other bills, and the majority of the Groups trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss held is set out below.
An analysis of trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss is included in note 17 and a similar analysis for available-for-sale financial assets is included in note 25.
The Groups non-participating investment contracts are all unit-linked.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss which back those investment contracts were 118,573 million 2008: 39,899 million.
Movements in the fair value of such assets, including movements arising from credit risk, are borne by the contract holders.
Derivative assets the Group reduces exposure to credit risk by using master netting agreements and by obtaining cash collateral.
An analysis of derivative assets is given in note 18.
Of the net derivative assets of 28,230 million 31 December 2008: 18,286 million, cash collateral of 6,645 million 31 December 2008: 2,970 million was held and a further 13,004 million was due from OECD banks 31 December 2008: 5,840 million.
Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held of the assets arising from reinsurance contracts held at 31 December 2009 of 1,875 million 31 December 2008: 385 million, 510 million 31 December 2008: 380 million were due from insurers with a credit rating of AA or above.
232 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Financial guarantees these represent undertakings that the Group will meet a customers obligation to third parties if the customer fails to do so.
Commitments to extend credit represent unused portions of authorisations to extend credit in the form of loans, guarantees or letters of credit.
The Group is theoretically exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total guarantees or unused commitments, however, the likely amount of loss is expected to be signi cantly less: most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining speci c credit standards.
Reverse repo and repo transactions for reverse repo transactions which are accounted for as collateralised loans, it is the Groups policy to seek collateral which is at least equal to the amount loaned.
At 31 December 2009, the fair value of collateral accepted under reverse repo transactions that the Group is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge was 26,732 million 2008: 5,858 million.
Of this, 26,732 million 2008: 5,855 million was sold or repledged as at 31 December 2009.
The fair value of collateral pledged in respect of repo transactions, accounted for as secured borrowings, where the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to repledge was 38,102 million 31 December 2008: 5,734 million.
Loans and advances Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total pro t or loss m m m m m m 31 December 2009 Neither past due nor impaired 35,333 347,292 48,429 185,872 581,593 19,082 Past due but not impaired 12,587 1,873 5,118 19,578 Impaired no provision required 2,034 449 6,603 9,086 provision held 153 5,918 5,902 37,927 49,747 Gross 35,486 367,831 56,653 235,520 660,004 19,082 Allowance for impairment losses 149 1,774 3,379 20,835 25,988 Fair value adjustments 24 7,047 Net 35,361 626,969 19,082 31 December 2008 Neither past due nor impaired 38,716 110,148 33,571 86,707 230,426 608 Past due but not impaired 17 3,134 1,146 555 4,835 Impaired no provision required 479 150 1,253 1,882 provision held 135 882 4,327 1,451 6,660 Gross 38,868 114,643 39,194 89,966 243,803 608 Allowance for impairment losses 135 186 2,345 928 3,459 Net 38,733 114,457 36,849 89,038 240,344 608 The analysis of lending between retail and wholesale has been prepared based upon the type of exposure and not the business segment in which the exposure is recorded.
Included within retail are exposures to personal customers and small businesses, whilst included within wholesale are exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions.
The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss are disclosed in note 3.
All impaired loans which exceed certain thresholds, principally within the Groups Wholesale division, are individually assessed for impairment by reviewing expected future cash ows including those that could arise from the realisation of security.
Included in loans and receivables are advances individually determined to be impaired with a gross amount before impairment allowances of 44,675 million 31 December 2008: 2,699 million which have associated collateral with a fair value of 10,217 million 31 December 2008: 518 million.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 233 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total pro t or loss m m m m m m 31 December 2009 Good quality 34,434 335,482 30,743 61,810 18,702 Satisfactory quality 135 9,614 12,654 59,752 267 Lower quality 15 746 1,480 45,986 90 Below standard, but not impaired 749 1,450 3,552 18,324 23 35,333 347,292 48,429 185,872 581,593 19,082 31 December 2008 Good quality 38,283 109,815 21,373 49,349 129 Satisfactory quality 215 264 9,192 31,042 411 Lower quality 204 900 5,831 56 Below standard, but not impaired 14 69 2,106 485 12 38,716 110,148 33,571 86,707 230,426 608 The fide nitions of good quality, satisfactory quality, lower quality and below standard, but not impaired applying to retail and wholesale are not the same, re ecting the different characteristics of these exposures and the way they are managed internally, and consequently totals are not provided.
Wholesale lending has been classi ed using internal probability of default rating models mapped so that they are comparable to external credit ratings.
Good quality lending comprises the lower assessed default probabilities, with other classi cations re ecting progressively higher default risk.
Classi cations of retail lending incorporate expected recovery levels for mortgages, as well as probabilities of default assessed using internal rating models.
Good quality lending includes the lower assessed default probabilities and all loans with low expected losses in the event of default, with other categories re ecting progressively higher risks and lower expected recoveries.
234 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Loans and advances which are past due but not impaired Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total pro t or loss m m m m m m 31 December 2009 0-30 days 6,018 1,316 2,347 9,681 30-60 days 2,649 376 825 3,850 60-90 days 1,702 74 825 2,601 90-180 days 2,216 48 560 2,824 Over 180 days 2 59 561 622 12,587 1,873 5,118 19,578 Fair value of collateral held 10,845 n a n a n a 31 December 2008 0-30 days 1,527 853 289 2,669 30-60 days 633 259 90 982 60-90 days 17 424 32 70 526 90-180 days 549 2 77 628 Over 180 days 1 29 30 17 3,134 1,146 555 4,835 Fair value of collateral held 2,637 n a n a n a A financial asset is past due if a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Collateral held against retail mortgage lending is principally comprised of residential properties: their fair value has been estimated based upon the last actual valuation, adjusted to take into account subsequent movements in house prices, after making allowance for indexation error and dilapidations.
The resulting valuation has been limited to the principal amount of the outstanding advance in order to provide a clearer representation of the Groups credit exposure.
Lending decisions are based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
Collateral values for non-mortgage lending are assessed more rigorously at the time of loan origination or when taking enforcement action and may uctuate, as in the case of oating charges, according to the level of assets held by the customer.
Whilst collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in accordance with business unit credit policy, this varies according to the type of lending and collateral involved.
It is therefore not practicable to estimate and aggregate current fair values of collateral for non-mortgage lending.
Renegotiated loans and advances Loans and advances that were renegotiated during the year and that would otherwise have been past due or impaired at 31 December 2009 totalled 3,919 million 31 December 2008: 144 million.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 235 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Forbearance Forbearance or repayment arrangements allow a mortgage customer to repay a monthly amount which is lower than their contractual monthly payment for a short period.
This period is usually for no more than 12 months and is negotiated with the customer by the mortgage collectors.
During the period of forbearance, there is no clearing down of arrears such that unless the customer is paying more than their contractual minimum payment, arrears balances will remain.
When customers come to the end of their arrangement period they will continue to be managed as a mainstream collections case and if unable to recover then will move toward possession.
Customers can have their arrears balance recapitalised once they have demonstrated they can pay the original contractual minimum payment, but are unable to clear their arrears.
This is usually demonstrated by the customer making six consecutive contractual monthly payments.
Customers are not however able to recapitalise more than twice in a five year period.
Recapitalised mortgages will return to the non-impaired book and will be managed in accordance with the recapitalised terms of the mortgage.
Repossessed collateral 2009 2008 m m Residential property 1,353 221 Other 701 26 2,054 247 In respect of retail portfolios, the Group does not take physical possession of properties or other assets held as collateral and uses external agents to realise the value as soon as practicable, generally at auction, to settle indebtedness.
Any surplus funds are returned to the borrower or are otherwise dealt with in accordance with appropriate insolvency regulations.
In certain circumstances the Group takes physical possession of assets held as collateral against wholesale lending.
In such cases, the assets are carried on the Groups balance sheet and are classi ed according to the Groups accounting policies.
Loan-to-value ratio of mortgage lending 2009 2008 m m Analysis by loan-to-value ratio of the Groups residential mortgage lending which is neither past due nor impaired: Less than 70 per cent 142,614 55,040 70 per cent to 80 per cent 54,079 15,812 80 per cent to 90 per cent 52,238 15,954 Greater than 90 per cent 98,361 23,342 347,292 110,148 236 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Debt securities, treasury and other bills analysis by credit rating: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 Debt securities held at fair value through pro t or loss Trading assets: Government securities 2,100 806 30 2,936 Other public sector securities 6 6 Bank and building society certi cates of deposit 1,037 997 2,034 Other asset-backed securities 331 379 181 891 Corporate and other debt securities 1,025 312 1,328 348 72 12 3,097 Total held as trading assets 3,456 2,534 2,512 348 72 42 8,964 Other assets held at fair value through pro t or loss: Government securities 16,025 581 337 26 56 17,025 Other public sector securities 675 16 9 700 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 316 134 45 24 1 520 Other asset-backed securities 403 325 654 333 265 19 1,999 719 459 699 357 265 20 2,519 Corporate and other debt securities 4,070 1,359 4,540 3,407 1,062 3,133 17,571 Total other assets held at fair value through pro t or loss 21,489 2,415 5,576 3,790 1,327 3,218 37,815 Total held at fair value through pro t or loss 24,945 4,949 8,088 4,138 1,399 3,260 46,779 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities: Government securities 8,222 263 35 149 8,669 Other public sector securities 31 31 Bank and building society certi cates of deposit 22 499 452 22 19 1,014 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 3,820 555 215 156 35 4,781 Other asset-backed securities 6,080 731 448 179 186 16 7,640 9,900 1,286 663 335 221 16 12,421 Corporate and other debt securities 2,002 7,342 8,802 1,350 228 180 19,904 Total debt securities 20,146 9,390 9,952 1,707 468 376 42,039 Treasury bills and other bills 269 2,263 2,532 Total held as available-for-sale assets 20,415 11,653 9,952 1,707 468 376 44,571 Debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 9,183 2,470 805 682 182 13,322 Other asset-backed securities 11,824 2,465 1,449 277 965 157 17,137 21,007 4,935 2,254 959 1,147 157 30,459 Corporate and other debt securities 439 823 69 306 986 2,623 Total debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables 21,007 5,374 3,077 1,028 1,453 1,143 33,082 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 237 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Debt securities, treasury and other bills analysis by credit rating: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 Debt securities held at fair value through pro t or loss Trading assets: Government securities 38 38 Corporate and other debt securities 76 187 38 68 87 80 536 Total held as trading assets 114 187 38 68 87 80 574 Other assets held at fair value through pro t or loss: Government securities 7,025 45 138 1 117 7,326 Other public sector securities 18 18 Bank and building society certi cates of deposit 96 337 433 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 207 108 23 16 15 369 Other asset-backed securities 206 362 391 277 105 1 1,342 413 470 414 293 105 16 1,711 Corporate and other debt securities 3,194 864 2,911 2,142 599 1,410 11,120 Total other assets held at fair value through pro t or loss 10,728 1,716 3,463 2,436 704 1,561 20,608 Total held at fair value through pro t or loss 10,842 1,903 3,501 2,504 791 1,641 21,182 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities: Government securities 851 1 16 868 Other public sector securities 12 12 Bank and building society certi cates of deposit 9,418 166 18 9,602 Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 5,523 59 59 18 41 5,700 Other asset-backed securities 7,412 235 134 73 184 54 8,092 12,935 294 193 91 225 54 13,792 Corporate and other debt securities 168 1,257 192 566 2,183 Total debt securities 13,954 10,969 552 91 243 648 26,457 Treasury bills and other bills 26,858 2,351 29,209 Total held as available-for-sale assets 40,812 13,320 552 91 243 648 55,666 Debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables Asset-backed securities: Mortgage-backed securities 431 6 31 10 478 Other asset-backed securities 73 72 162 53 10 170 540 504 78 162 84 20 170 1,018 Corporate and other debt securities 18 1,204 1,663 114 532 3,531 Total debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables 522 1,282 1,825 198 20 702 4,549 There are no material amounts for debt securities, treasury and other bills which are past due but not impaired.
238 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued CREDIT MARKET EXPOSURES The Groups credit market exposures primarily relate to asset-backed securities exposures held in Wholesale division.
These exposures are classified as loans and receivables note 23, available-for-sale note 25 and trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss note 17 depending on the nature of the investment.
Trading and other Net exposure Net exposure financial assets at as at as at Loans and fair value through 31 December 31 December receivables Available-for-sale pro t or loss 2009 2008 m m m m m Asset-backed securities Mortgage-backed securities: US residential mortgage-backed securities 4,826 4,826 488 Non-US residential mortgage-backed securities 6,078 3,577 9,655 4,585 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 2,561 1,176 3,737 1,328 13,465 4,753 18,218 6,401 Collateralised debt obligations: Corporate 86 86 Commercial real estate 509 509 Other 151 45 196 189 Collateralised loan obligation 4,006 1,739 5,745 2,319 4,752 1,784 6,536 2,508 Personal sector: Auto loans 1,006 724 1,730 796 Credit cards 2,938 782 3,720 1,126 Personal loans 769 230 999 39 4,713 1,736 6,449 1,961 Federal family education loan programme student loans 5,938 3,306 9,244 2,951 Other asset-backed securities 400 783 1,183 1,050 Total uncovered asset-backed securities 29,268 12,362 41,630 14,871 1 Negative basis 59 1,174 1,233 584 Total Wholesale asset-backed securities 29,268 12,421 1,174 42,863 15,455 Direct 19,386 7,039 1,174 27,599 8,728 Conduits note 22 9,882 5,382 15,264 6,727 Total Wholesale asset-backed securities 29,268 12,421 1,174 42,863 15,455 Other asset-backed securities 1,191 2,236 3,427 1,066 Total asset-backed securities 30,459 12,421 3,410 46,290 16,521 1 Negative basis means bonds held with separate matching credit default swap protection.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 239 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The table below sets out Wholesale divisions net exposure to US RMBS by vintage.
Net exposure Net exposure as at as at 31 December 31 December Pre-2005 2005 2006 2007 2009 2008 m m m m m m Asset class Prime 274 282 196 107 859 Alt-A 125 806 1,525 1,511 3,967 488 Sub-prime 399 1,088 1,721 1,618 4,826 488 Exposures to Monolines During the year all exposure to sub-investment grade monolines on CDS contracts was written down to zero, leaving limited exposure to monoline insurers as set out below.
Credit default swaps Wrapped loans and receivables Wrapped bonds 1 2 3 Notional Exposure Notional Exposure Notional Exposure m m m m m m Investment grade 1,030 75 401 260 156 101 Sub-investment grade 234 8 1,030 75 401 260 390 109 1 The exposure to monolines arising from credit default swaps is calculated as the mark-to-market of the CDS protection purchased from the monoline after credit valuation adjustments.
2 The exposure to monolines on wrapped loans and receivables and bonds is the internal assessment of amounts that will be recovered from the monoline guarantor on interest and principal shortfalls.
3 In addition, the Group has 2,703 million of monoline wrapped bonds and 791 million of monoline liquidity commitments on which the Group currently places no reliance on the guarantor.
240 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Credit ratings An analysis of external credit ratings as at 31 December 2009 of the Wholesale divisions asset-backed securities portfolio by asset class is provided below.
These ratings are based on the lowest of Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 241 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 4 LIQUIDITY RISK The table below analyses assets and liabilities of the Group into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining contractual period at the balance sheet date: balances with no xed maturity are included in the over 5 years category.
The Groups assets and liabilities may be repaid or otherwise mature earlier or later than implied by their contractual terms and readers are, therefore, advised to use caution when using data to evaluate the Groups liquidity position.
The table below analyses financial instrument liabilities of the Group, excluding those arising from insurance and participating investment contracts, on an undiscounted future cash ow basis according to contractual maturity, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date: balances with no xed maturity are included in the over 5 years category.
Up to 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 Deposits from banks 46,260 15,250 19,232 1,229 892 82,863 Customer deposits 305,782 37,691 32,848 28,229 4,020 408,570 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 14,592 3,668 6,116 3,224 1,275 28,875 Debt securities in issue 40,505 38,431 34,909 117,856 25,863 257,564 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 46,040 4 58 185 186 46,473 Subordinated liabilities 75 1,004 1,745 15,702 35,737 54,263 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 453,254 96,048 94,908 166,425 67,973 878,608 Derivative financial liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 10,707 4,844 8,309 35,793 38,505 98,158 Gross settled derivatives in ows 6,547 4,501 8,165 35,306 36,311 90,830 Gross settled derivatives net ows 4,160 343 144 487 2,194 7,328 Net settled derivatives liabilities 15,107 2,180 9,395 8,721 1,777 37,180 Total derivative financial liabilities 19,267 2,523 9,539 9,208 3,971 44,508 As at 31 December 2008 Deposits from banks 49,620 13,617 1,480 1,986 5 66,708 Customer deposits 151,164 8,258 9,675 2,303 697 172,097 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 29,479 1,077 5,295 7,203 3,818 46,872 Debt securities in issue 24,381 26,944 9,192 13,643 3,489 77,649 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 14,243 14,243 Subordinated liabilities 34 130 563 5,382 20,516 26,625 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 268,921 50,026 26,205 30,517 28,525 404,194 Derivative financial liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 5,210 284 4,602 990 1,154 12,240 Gross settled derivatives in ows 3,136 33 3,248 6,417 Gross settled derivatives net ows 2,074 251 1,354 990 1,154 5,823 Net settled derivative liabilities 1,824 640 415 350 970 4,199 Total derivative financial liabilities 3,898 891 1,769 1,340 2,124 10,022 Cash ows for undated subordinated liabilities whose terms give the Group the option to redeem at a future date are included within the table on the basis that the Group will exercise its option to redeem.
The principal amount for undated subordinated liabilities with no redemption option is included within the over five years column: interest of approximately 555 million 2008: 412 million per annum which is payable in respect of those instruments for as long as they remain in issue is not included beyond five years.
Further information on the Groups liquidity exposures is provided on pages 81 to 85.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 243 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Liabilities arising from insurance and participating investment contracts are analysed on a behavioural basis, as permitted by IFRS 4, as follows: Up to 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 6,263 2,303 4,796 17,890 44,927 76,179 As at 31 December 2008 340 927 2,626 7,030 22,869 33,792 The following tables set out the amounts and residual maturities of Lloyds Banking Groups off balance sheet contingent liabilities and commitments.
Within 1-3 3-5 Over 5 1 year years years years Total m m m m m 31 December 2009 Acceptances 59 59 Other contingent liabilities 2,670 1,356 1,144 879 6,049 Total contingent liabilities 2,729 1,356 1,144 879 6,108 Lending commitments 82,997 20,497 18,040 6,003 127,537 Other commitments 921 105 14 6 1,046 Total commitments 83,918 20,602 18,054 6,009 128,583 Total contingents and commitments 86,647 21,958 19,198 6,888 134,691 Within 1-3 3-5 Over 5 1 year years years years Total m m m m m 31 December 2008 Acceptances 49 49 Other contingent liabilities 1,722 1,525 402 1,071 4,720 Total contingent liabilities 1,771 1,525 402 1,071 4,769 Lending commitments 54,155 15,029 8,014 3,625 80,823 Other commitments 572 181 80 99 932 Total commitments 54,727 15,210 8,094 3,724 81,755 Total contingents and commitments 56,498 16,735 8,496 4,795 86,524 55 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT A CHANGE IN OPERATING ASSETS 2009 2008 m m Change in loans and receivables 50,935 33,717 Change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 12,063 8,990 Change in other operating assets 1,056 318 Change in operating assets 61,942 43,025 244 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 55 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued B CHANGE IN OPERATING LIABILITIES 2009 2008 m m Change in deposits from banks 71,267 25,279 Change in customer deposits 11,474 13,088 Change in debt securities in issue 26,578 22,401 Change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 27,037 22,565 Change in investment contract liabilities 5,415 3,061 Change in other operating liabilities 2,066 661 Change in operating liabilities 105,927 80,933 C NON-CASH AND OTHER ITEMS 1 2009 2008 m m Depreciation and amortisation 2,560 686 Revaluation of investment properties 214 1,058 Allowance for loan losses 16,028 2,876 Write-off of allowance for loan losses 4,090 1,498 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 602 130 Impairment of goodwill 240 100 Change in insurance contract liabilities 5,986 4,555 Other provision movements 95 7 Net charge in respect of fide ned bene t schemes 529 164 Contributions to fide ned bene t schemes 1,867 547 Gain on acquisition 11,173 Other non-cash items 2,806 3,324 Total non-cash items 6,318 4,903 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 2,550 896 Other 39 10 Total other items 2,589 886 Non-cash and other items 8,907 4,017 D ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS SHOWN IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2009 2008 m m Cash and balances with central banks 38,994 5,008 2 Less: mandatory reserve deposits 728 545 38,266 4,463 Loans and advances to banks 35,361 40,758 Less: amounts with a maturity of three months or more 7,937 12,461 27,424 28,297 Total cash and cash equivalents 65,690 32,760 1 Restated for IFRS 2 Revised.
2 Mandatory reserve deposits are held with local central banks in accordance with statutory requirements: these deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
Included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2009 is 13,323 million 2008: 8,255 million held within the Groups life funds, which is not immediately available for use in the business.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 245 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued E ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN FINANCING DURING THE YEAR 2009 2008 m m Share capital including share premium account and merger reserve : At 1 January 3,952 3,073 Issued on acquisition of HBOS 7,651 Transfer to capital redemption reserve 26 Cash proceeds from issue of share capital: Private placement 760 Placing and open offer 4,430 Placing and compensatory open offer 3,905 Rights issue 13,112 Other 41 119 21,488 879 At 31 December 33,065 3,952 2009 2008 m m Minority interests: At 1 January 306 284 Exchange and other adjustments 19 28 Adjustment on acquisition of HBOS 5,567 Repayment of capital to minority shareholders and extinguishment of minority interests 5,035 3 Minority share of pro t after tax 126 26 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 116 29 At 31 December 829 306 2009 2008 m m Subordinated liabilities: At 1 January 17,256 11,958 Exchange and other adjustments 133 2,658 Adjustment on acquisition of HBOS 20,048 Issue of subordinated liabilities 4,187 3,021 Repayments of subordinated liabilities 6,897 381 At 31 December 34,727 17,256 246 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 55 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued F ACQUISITION OF GROUP UNDERTAKINGS AND BUSINESSES 2009 2008 m m Net assets acquired: Cash and balances at central banks 2,123 Derivatives, trading and other financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss 137,889 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to customers 436,839 Loans and advances to banks 15,794 Debt securities 38,408 491,041 Available-for-sale financial assets 27,151 Investment properties 3,002 Value of in-force business 3,713 Intangible assets 4,754 Tangible xed assets 5,707 Other assets 11,398 Deposits from banks 87,840 Customer deposits 224,694 Derivatives, trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss 62,158 Debt securities in issue 185,319 Insurance liabilities 36,687 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 28,181 Other liabilities 17,316 Retirement bene t obligations 358 Subordinated liabilities 20,048 Preference shares 3,917 Minority interests 1,300 18,960 Satis ed by: Issue of shares 7,651 Gain on acquisition 11,173 Cash and cash equivalents acquired, net of acquisition costs 16,341 2,483 Net cash in ow arising from acquisition of HBOS 16,477 Acquisition of and additional investment in joint ventures 215 Net cash in ow arising from acquisitions in the year 16,262 Payments to former members of Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society acquired during 2000 35 19 Net cash in ow out ow 16,227 19 G DISPOSAL AND CLOSURE OF GROUP UNDERTAKINGS AND BUSINESSES 2009 2008 m m Intangible assets 170 Other net assets and liabilities 241 Net cash in ow from disposals 411 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 247 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 56 FUTURE ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS The following pronouncements will be relevant to the Group but were not effective at 31 December 2009 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
The full impact of these accounting changes is being assessed by the Group.
With the exception of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classi cation and Measurement, the initial view is that none of these pronouncements are expected to cause any material adjustments to reported numbers in the financial statements.
IFRS 9 is the initial stage of a project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and will fundamentally change the way in which the Group accounts for financial instruments.
Future stages are expected to result in amendments to IFRS 9 to deal with classi cation and measurement of financial liabilities, amortised cost and impairment and hedge accounting.
Until all stages of the replacement project are complete, it is not possible to determine the overall impact on the financial statements from the replacement of IAS 39.
Pronouncement Nature of change IASB effective date IFRS 3 Business Combinations The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business Annual periods beginning combinations, however all payments to purchase a business are to be on or after 1 July 2009. recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, some contingent payments are subsequently remeasured at fair value through income, goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the minority interest, and all transaction costs are expensed.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be Annual periods beginning Financial Statements recorded in equity if there is no change in control: any remaining interest on or after 1 July 2009. in an investee is re-measured to fair value in determining the gain or loss recognised in pro t or loss where control over the investee is lost.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Provides accounting guidance for non-reciprocal distributions of non-cash Annual periods beginning Assets to Owners assets to owners and those in which owners may elect to receive a cash on or after 1 July 2009. alternative.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Clari es how the principles underlying hedge accounting should be Annual periods beginning Instruments: Recognition and applied in particular situations.
Measurement Eligible Hedged Items 1 Improvements to IFRSs Sets out minor amendments to IFRS standards as part of annual Dealt with on a standard issued April 2009 improvements process.
by standard basis but not earlier than annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Clari es that an entity that receives goods or services in a share-based payment Annual periods beginning arrangement must account for those goods or services no matter which entity in on or after 1 January 2010.
Share-based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment the group settles the transaction, whether or not settled in shares or cash.
1 Transactions Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Requires rights issues denominated in a currency other than the functional Annual periods beginning Instruments: Presentation currency of the issuer to be classi ed as equity regardless of the currency in on or after 1 February 2010.
Classi cation of Rights Issues which the exercise price is denominated.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Clari es that when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the Annual periods beginning 1 Liabilities with Equity Instruments result that the liability is extinguished by the debtor issuing its own equity on or after 1 July 2010. instruments to the creditor, a gain or loss is recognised in pro t or loss representing the difference between the carrying value of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued: the fair value of the financial liability is used to measure the gain or loss where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured.
1 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Simpli es the fide nition of a related party and provides a partial exemption Annual periods beginning from the disclosure requirements for government related entities on or after 1 January 2011.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Applies when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and Annual periods beginning Prepayments of a Minimum makes an early payment of contributions to cover those requirements and on or after 1 January 2011.
1 Funding Requirement permits such an entity to treat the bene t of such an early payment as an asset.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Replaces those parts of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Annual periods beginning 1 Classi cation and Measurement Measurement relating to the classi cation and measurement of financial on or after 1 January 2013. assets.
Requires financial assets to be classi ed into two measurement categories, fair value and amortised cost, on the basis of the objectives of the entitys business model for managing its financial assets and the contractual cash ow characteristics of the instrument.
The available-for-sale financial asset and held-to-maturity categories in existing IAS 39 will be eliminated.
1 At the date of this report, these pronouncements are awaiting EU endorsement.
248 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 57 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS As part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from the GAPS the Group announced on 27 November 2009 that an aggregate amount of 1,484 million would be issued in the form of new ordinary shares of Lloyds Banking Group in exchange for certain existing preference shares, and preferred securities.
The conversion price was determined as the five day weighted average price for the five trading days ending on 11 February 2010.
On 18 February 2010, the exchange completed and 3,141 million ordinary shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc were issued as consideration for the redemption of preference shares and preferred securities.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy in respect of debt for equity exchanges, a gain of 85 million was recognised on this exchange transaction.
58 APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements were approved by the directors of Lloyds Banking Group plc on 25 February 2010.
