GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial The Groups consolidated financial statements and the Companys Statements Consequential amendments arising financial statements are prepared in accordance with International from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial IAS28 Investments in Associates Consequential Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures Consequential 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation convention as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities Amendments relating to puttable instruments held at fair value, including those of the central counterparty CCP and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 clearing business of the Companys majority-owned subsidiary IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, and on the amendments for eligible hedged items 1 July 2009 basis of the principal accounting policies set out below.
IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 January 2009 The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its IFRIC15 Agreements for the construction of real estate 1 January 2009 consolidated income statement.
This enables the Group to aid an IFRIC16 Hedges of a net investment understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year before in a foreign operation 1 October 2008 goodwill impairment, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate IFRIC17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners 1 July 2009 adjusted earnings per share and is considered to be the most IFRIC18 Transfer of assets from customers 1 July 2009 appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Profit before impairment of goodwill, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items is reconciled to profit before The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future taxation on the face of the income statement.
standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not currently expect any of these changes Recent accounting developments to have a material impact on the results or the net assets of the The following standards and interpretations issued by the International Company or the Group.
Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have been adopted in these financial statements.
Accounting policies CONSOLIDATION International accounting standards and interpretations The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, all having IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements co-terminous accounting periods, with all inter-company balances IFRIC14 IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, and transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable Minimum Funding requirements and their Interaction share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up IFRIC12 has no impact on the financial statements of the Company to, or from, the date that control passes.
As permitted by Section 230 or the Group.
The adoption of IFRIC14 has not had a material impact of the Companies Act 1985, the Companys income statement has on the financial statements of the Company or the Group.
not been included in these financial statements.
The Companys loss for the year is disclosed within note 32.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date, subject Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for to EU endorsement in some cases, that does not impact on these under the equity method.
The Groups investments in joint ventures financial statements.
and associates are initially recognised at cost, and its share of profits or losses after tax from joint ventures and associates is included in International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date the consolidated income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the IFRS various Annual improvements 2008 1 January 2009 investment in the Groups balance sheet.
The financial statements IFRS2 Share-based Payment Amendment of joint ventures and associates are used by the Group to apply the relating to vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 equity method, under which the Groups income statement reflects IFRS3 Business Combinations Comprehensive the Groups share of the results of operations of the associates.
revision on applying the acquisition method 1 July 2009 A company is considered an associate where the Group has a significant influence.
IFRS8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase Comprehensive revision including requiring method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate a statement of comprehensive income 1 January 2009 of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly Amendments relating to disclosure of puttable attributable to the business combination, such as professional fees instruments and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 paid to accountants and legal advisers and other consultants to effect IAS23 Borrowing Costs Comprehensive the combination.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to revision to prescribed treatment 1 January 2009 bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
London Stock Exchange Group 58 Annual Report 2009 THE wORLDS CAPITAL MARKET The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority The results and financial position of all Group entities that have interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
a functional currency different from the presentation currency Acquisitions of shares from minority interests result in goodwill being are converted into the presentation currency as follows: the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary.
a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and fair value adjustments are converted at the closing Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when balance sheet rate: events indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the Companys financial statements at cost b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income less accumulated impairment losses.
statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and REvENUE c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate Revenue represents the total amount receivable for the provision component of equity.
of goods and services, excluding value added tax.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply Freehold properties, including related fixed plant, are included in the is provided: financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Freehold buildings and related fixed plant a membership and other term fees are recognised over the period are depreciated to residual value, based on cost at the beginning of to which the fee relates: the year plus subsequent additions, over their estimated economic lives.
The estimated useful lives of properties range between 33 and b admission fees are recognised at the time of admission to trading: 50 years, and the estimated useful economic lives of fixed plant range from five to 20 years.
c royalties are recognised at the earlier of cash receipt or the date at which they are earned or measurable with certainty: and Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated to residual value over the shorter of the period of the d all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service is lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
In interim reports, Borsa Italiana group defers some of the income received from cash trading and S&P MIB futures trading and Plant and equipment is stated at cost and is depreciated to residual clearing.
This deferral results in revenues being recognised at the value on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives average price of transactions forecast for the full year, as pricing levels of the assets, which mainly range from three to five years.
reduce during the year when incremental volume targets are achieved.
The Group selects its depreciation rates based on expected EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS economic lives, taking into account the expected rate of technological Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature developments, market requirements and expected use of the assets.
and are non-recurring are classified as exceptional items on the face The selected rates are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain of the income statement within their relevant category.
The separate appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
reporting of these items together with impairment and amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give an indication of the Groups INTANGIBLE ASSETS underlying performance.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of consideration paid plus transaction costs over the fair value SHARE BASED COMPENSATION of the Groups share of net identifiable assets purchased.
It is not The Group operates a number of equity settled share based amortised but is tested for impairment annually and when there are compensation plans for employees.
The charge to the income indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, and is statement is determined by the fair value of the options granted carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised over the relevant vesting period.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, FOREIGN CURRENCIES customer relationships, licences and software development costs, The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, all of which are recorded as intangible assets and held at cost less which is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
These assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives, which do not normally Foreign currency transactions are converted into the functional exceed 25 years or the term of the licence.
The amortisation period currency using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
and method are reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, at each Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement balance sheet date.
of such transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Third party software costs for the development and implementation are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences of systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are on non-monetary items, such as equities or bonds held at fair value capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain averaging three years.
Exceptions to this are where the non-monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 59 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION bears the counterparty risk associated with honouring by the The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax counterparties of their obligations and, in the event of a failure to laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in deliver by any counterparty, is required itself to complete delivery the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and of the appropriate securities.
Accordingly, CC&G must record an generate taxable income.
asset and a liability on its balance sheet in respect of each of the bid and offer sides of each transaction.
However, except in respect of Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary failed transactions CC&G as a CCP clearer does not bear any price differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and risk and the value of the bid and offer side of each transaction are their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation the same: consequently, the principal CCP asset and liability is determined using tax rates that are substantially enacted at the amounts largely match each other.
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities include the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future the following: taxable profits.
a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, which coincides Financial assets excluding clearing business with the market value of the open positions on the IDEM derivatives The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: market in which CC&G operates as CCP, and are subsequently at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and remeasured on the basis of the market price of each derivative receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which instrument at the period end.
Since the asset and liability positions the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the of the CCP clearer are matched, the same amount is recorded for classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
both the assets and liabilities and no fair value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions assets held for liquidity purposes and are initially recognised at fair These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised members in the bond market using CC&Gs clearing and guarantee directly in the income statement.
These assets are financial service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled instruments not designated as hedges.
spot and not yet settled at term, usually within two days.
These transactions are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently b Available-for-sale financial assets measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures pro-rated over the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in associates and subsidiaries are designated as available for sale and the period and the difference between the spot and forward prices.
are recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with Since the asset and liability positions for repos are matched, the changes in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the fair value is not same amount is recorded for both assets and liabilities and no gain reliably measurable, the investment is held at cost less any provision or loss is recorded in the income statement.
Assets such as shares in clearing and payment transmission operations and long term equity investments that do c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from available for sale.
the activities of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond transactions.
They mainly represent amounts to be received or paid c Loans and receivables for initial and variation margins, option premiums and default fund Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater current value.
than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
These represent quoted equity and bond securities which CC&G acquires usually as a result of failure by a counterparty to deliver CASH AND CASH EQUIvALENTS its side of a transaction and are recognised initially at fair value and Cash and cash equivalents of the Group comprise cash at bank and subsequently remeasured at fair value, based on the market price term deposits that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash of each security.
The difference between the settlement price of and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
each security at trade date and the market price of that security at the period end is recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF THE CENTRAL income statement.
COUNTERPARTY CCP CLEARING BUSINESS Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to CC&G, e Cash and cash equivalents restricted the subsidiary that performs the CCP clearing business.
CC&G These amounts include amounts received from clearing members clears financial derivatives, equities and bond transactions on Italian to cover initial and variation margins and default fund contributions regulated markets, guaranteeing the successful receipt or delivery of as collateral against default or insolvency and are deposited with securities for the transactions to be settled on both the bid and offer banks.
Such amounts are initially recognised at fair value and are side of transactions with the respective counterparties.
It enters into subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective a contractual arrangement in respect of each side of the transaction, interest method, if the time value of money is significant.
London Stock Exchange Group 60 Annual Report 2009 THE wORLDS CAPITAL MARKET DERIvATIvE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIvITIES Redeemable Class B shares issued in connection with the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a May 2006 capital return are carried at amortised cost, and derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured presented as a financial liability.
The dividend accrued in respect at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of of the Class B shares has been classified within finance costs recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not in the income statement.
the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument.
The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives and PROvISIONS hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the The Group also hedges a proportion of its net investment in Borsa amount of the obligation.
Provision is made in the accounts for the Italiana S. p. A. by designating euro borrowings as a net investment lower of the cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property space hedge.
surplus to business requirements after taking into account income from sub-letting, and any compensation or penalties arising from In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
Such provisions are strict criteria as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging SHARE CAPITAL instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management The Companys own shares held by the ESOP trust are deducted objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
from equity until they vest unconditionally in employees and are held Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the at cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these Treasury shares is commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or the hedge continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting disposed of.
The effective proportion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement OPERATING LEASES in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, Rental costs for operating leases are charged to the income when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a statement on a straight-line basis.
Lease incentives are spread hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer over the term of the lease.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised PENSION COSTS when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to pension schemes.
For the defined benefit scheme the service cost, occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as an immediately transferred to the income statement.
operating expense and the expected return on scheme assets and interest cost from unwinding of the discount on scheme obligations TRADE RECEIvABLES are included as finance income and finance expense respectively.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, fair value which is usually the original invoiced amount less provision changes in actuarial assumptions or differences between actual and for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is expected returns on assets are recognised at each period end net established when there is objective evidence that the Group will of tax in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The net not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, difference between the present value of pension obligations and probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial the fair value of scheme assets.
For defined contribution schemes, reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
BORROwINGS Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 61
