GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial The Groups consolidated financial statements and the Companys Statements Consequential amendments arising financial statements are prepared in accordance with International from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial IAS28 Investments in Associates Consequential Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures Consequential 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation convention as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities Amendments relating to puttable instruments held at fair value, including those of the central counterparty CCP and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 clearing business of the Companys majority-owned subsidiary IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, and on the amendments for eligible hedged items 1 July 2009 basis of the principal accounting policies set out below.
IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 January 2009 The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its IFRIC15 Agreements for the construction of real estate 1 January 2009 consolidated income statement.
This enables the Group to aid an IFRIC16 Hedges of a net investment understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year before in a foreign operation 1 October 2008 goodwill impairment, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate IFRIC17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners 1 July 2009 adjusted earnings per share and is considered to be the most IFRIC18 Transfer of assets from customers 1 July 2009 appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Profit before impairment of goodwill, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items is reconciled to profit before The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future taxation on the face of the income statement.
standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not currently expect any of these changes Recent accounting developments to have a material impact on the results or the net assets of the The following standards and interpretations issued by the International Company or the Group.
Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have been adopted in these financial statements.
Accounting policies CONSOLIDATION International accounting standards and interpretations The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, all having IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements co-terminous accounting periods, with all inter-company balances IFRIC14 IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, and transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable Minimum Funding requirements and their Interaction share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up IFRIC12 has no impact on the financial statements of the Company to, or from, the date that control passes.
As permitted by Section 230 or the Group.
The adoption of IFRIC14 has not had a material impact of the Companies Act 1985, the Companys income statement has on the financial statements of the Company or the Group.
not been included in these financial statements.
The Companys loss for the year is disclosed within note 32.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date, subject Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for to EU endorsement in some cases, that does not impact on these under the equity method.
The Groups investments in joint ventures financial statements.
and associates are initially recognised at cost, and its share of profits or losses after tax from joint ventures and associates is included in International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date the consolidated income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the IFRS various Annual improvements 2008 1 January 2009 investment in the Groups balance sheet.
The financial statements IFRS2 Share-based Payment Amendment of joint ventures and associates are used by the Group to apply the relating to vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 equity method, under which the Groups income statement reflects IFRS3 Business Combinations Comprehensive the Groups share of the results of operations of the associates.
revision on applying the acquisition method 1 July 2009 A company is considered an associate where the Group has a significant influence.
IFRS8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase Comprehensive revision including requiring method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate a statement of comprehensive income 1 January 2009 of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly Amendments relating to disclosure of puttable attributable to the business combination, such as professional fees instruments and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 paid to accountants and legal advisers and other consultants to effect IAS23 Borrowing Costs Comprehensive the combination.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to revision to prescribed treatment 1 January 2009 bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
London Stock Exchange Group 58 Annual Report 2009
