GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group carries its bank borrowings and bonds at amortised cost, Financial risk factors with interest charged to the income statement over the period of the The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market borrowings using the effective interest rate EIR method.
Its July risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk and 2006 250m bond paid an initial coupon of 5.875 per cent p. a.
Due cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and the to amendments to the Companys long term credit rating, the coupon Groups risk management programme seeks to minimise potential increased to 6.125 per cent and 6.375 per cent in July 2007 and adverse effects on its financial performance.
For the purposes of its interim and annual financial statements at 30 September 2007 and 31 March 2008, the Financial risk management is performed at both a Group level, Group treated this bond as a floating rate instrument and, accordingly, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges did not reflect the impact of the expected future cash flows at the financial risks from a Group perspective and, locally, where original EIR in its calculations.
operating unit risk functions manage particular risks for regulatory or operational purposes.
Following further consideration, the directors decided that, although there were good arguments for treating elements of the bond as Following its establishment in November 2008, the Treasury floating rate, it was more appropriate to have treated this as a fixed Committee, chaired by the CFO, approves those matters not rate instrument.
Accordingly, the prior year financial statements have reserved for the Board operating within Board approved policies been adjusted by restating the carrying amount of the debt instrument covering foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and by discounting the revised cash flows using the original EIR, with investment of excess liquidity.
the resulting adjustments being recorded in the income statement as an exceptional finance cost.
The resulting charge to the income A MARKET RISK statement will be offset following revisions to the EIR calculations, i Foreign exchange risk which will result in reduced future interest expense, over the The Group operates predominantly in the UK and Italy.
Foreign remaining life of the bond.
exchange risk arises from translating the euro earnings, assets and liabilities of the Borsa Italiana sub-group from euro into sterling.
The effect of these adjustments on the prior year is shown below: The Group seeks to reduce its net asset exposure to movements Year ended between sterling and the euro by distributing its net euro denominated 31 March cash earnings in dividends and by raising an appropriate amount of its 2008 Notes m debt in euros.
The Groups euro debt is then serviced by cash generated by Borsa Italiana and its subsidiaries which, in turn, Effect on the income statement has some benefit in reducing Group income statement volatility Profit for the financial year as originally stated 178.5 to movements in exchange rates between sterling and the euro Finance expense: increase 10 7.7 through euro denominated interest expense.
Taxation charge reduction 2.2 Profit for the financial year restated 173.0 At 31 March 2009 151.9m 2008: 152.6m of the Groups debt was denominated in euros and designated as a hedge of the net investment in Borsa Italiana.
During the year to 31 March 2009 a Effect on the balance sheet gain of 24.8m 2008: 6.8m on foreign currency borrowings was Net assets as originally stated 1,268.4 recognised in equity.
There was no ineffectiveness of the hedge to Borrowings increase 7.7 be recognised in the income statement.
Current tax creditor decrease 2.2 Net assets restated 1,262.9 The Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
As at 31 March 2009 the Group has considered movements in the euro over the last year and Year ended has concluded that a 20 per cent movement in rates is a reasonable 31 March benchmark.
At 31 March 2009, if sterling had weakened strengthened 2008 by 20 per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, Effect on earnings per share post tax loss profit for the year would have been unchanged 2008: Basic earnings per share as originally stated 73.1p unchanged : however, equity would have been 6.7m higher 2008: Prior year adjustment 2.3p 6.6m higher 10.2m lower 2008: 9.1m lower.
This reflects Basic earnings per share restated 70.8p foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro Diluted earnings per share as originally stated 71.9p denominated borrowings.
Prior year adjustment 2.2p Diluted earnings per share restated 69.7p Group companies invoice revenues, incur expenses and purchase assets predominantly in their respective local currency, with the exception of EDX London Ltd where foreign exchange derivative There was no effect on adjusted basic earnings per share as the bond contracts have been used to hedge forecast inflows in Swedish krona adjustment is treated as an exceptional item.
see note 27 for further details.
No sensitivity analysis has been prepared for movements in Swedish krona sterling as this has been considered to be insignificant to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
During the year, LSE plc committed to certain contractual obligations in Canadian dollars with payments falling due after the end of the financial year.
Derivative instruments were used to hedge these London Stock Exchange Group 62 Annual Report 2009 THE wORLDS CAPITAL MARKET highly probable flows.
As at 31 March 2009, if sterling had weakened Group companies assess the credit quality of their customers, taking strengthened by 15 per cent against the Canadian dollar with all other into account their financial position and considering past experience variables held constant, post tax profit would have been unaffected and other factors.
Trade receivables, net of impairment, are with 1.3m 1.0m increase decrease to hedging reserve within concentrated in the financial community, and are managed as one equity in the balance sheet, as these hedges were fully effective class of receivables.
There is no concentration of credit risk with for accounting purposes.
respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers and, generally, a low historic incidence of customer ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk defaults.
Given this, and the recurring nature of the billing and The Groups interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, collection arrangements, management assess the credit quality investments in financial assets and borrowings.
of the Groups customers as high.
Changes in market interest rates mean that investments and CC&G, the Groups Italian clearing business, eliminates counterparty borrowings subject to variable rates expose the Group to the risk that risk for its members mainly large financial institutions, becoming the future associated cash flows will fluctuate, and those subject to fixed guarantor of the final settlement of the contracts, acting as a buyer rates expose the Group to the risk that the fair value of the financial towards each seller and as a seller towards each buyer.
As a result instrument will fluctuate.
CC&G faces credit risk if it incurs losses from the deterioration in the creditworthiness or the default of a counterparty for which risks As a medium term objective the Group seeks to maintain a proportion have been guaranteed in the performance of its role as central of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
To mitigate against this risk it has established a financial safeguarding system to cover the potential In November 2008, the Group cancelled a gilt lock instrument, effects of single or multiple defaults of market participants which which had been held to hedge the interest rate risk on a future is based on three levels of protection: forecast transaction that was no longer deemed highly probable see note 27.
An exceptional charge of 10.6m was recognised 1.
Clearing membership selection on the basis of supervisory capital, in the income statement.
This effectively reduced the proportion technical and organisational criteria: of the Groups borrowings held at fixed rates of interest.
Margin accounts each member must pay margins to cover In January and March 2009, interest rate swaps were used to the theoretical costs of liquidation which CC&G would incur in order hedge the exposure on 120m 2008: nil of the Groups floating rate to close out open positions in the event of the members default.
borrowings achieving a blended fixed rate payable of 2.42 per cent Margins are computed daily according to recognised margining per annum in return for three month Euribor receivable.
These hedges methodologies applied as appropriate for equities and fixed income were designated cash flow hedges and were fully effective at elements of the portfolio: and 31 March 2009.
Default funds clearing members participate in default funds At 31 March 2009 60 per cent 2008: 72 per cent of the Groups net managed by CC&G and created for the purpose of guaranteeing debt was effectively at fixed rates after taking into account the effect the integrity of the markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme of derivative financial instruments.
market circumstances, in line with risk management standards agreed by the European Association of Central Counterparty Clearing The Group reviews sensitivities for movements in interest rates which Houses.
These amounts are determined on the basis of the results are appropriate to market conditions.
The Group has considered the of periodic stress testing examined by CC&Gs risk committee.
volatility of interest rates over the last year and has concluded that a two per cent upward movement and a one per cent downward The Group invests its cash resources in deposits with banks and movement reflect reasonable levels of risk to current rates.
At 31 March 2009, if interest rates on sterling-denominated and Credit risk with respect to cash and cash equivalents is managed by euro-denominated cash and borrowings had been two per cent higher establishing minimum creditworthiness criteria, limiting the maximum with all other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year exposure to each counterparty.
The Company only uses banks that would have been 1.6m 2008: 5.0m lower mainly as a result of are independently rated with a minimum rating of Aa3 per Moodys.
higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
Individual counterparties are currently limited to deposits of 10m for periods not exceeding 12 months, a reduction in the current year from At 31 March 2009, if interest rates on sterling-denominated and the 15m used previously to reflect the greater market uncertainty in euro-denominated borrowings had been one per cent lower with all recent months.
CC&G is required to invest cash with counterparties other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year would have that are either investment grade or who have a minimum level of been 0.8m 2008: 2.5m higher, mainly as a result of lower interest capital, and for periods of up to 12 months in an amount dependent expense on floating rate borrowings.
on the credit quality of the counterparty, and works closely with the Bank of Italy to monitor this risk.
Other cash resources within the B CREDIT RISK Borsa Italiana sub-group are held on call or on deposit for short Credit risk is the risk that the Groups counterparties will be unable to periods only.
meet their obligations to the Group either in part or in full and arises from credit exposures to customers as well as on cash, deposits and The Group limits the transacting of derivatives to a limited number derivative financial instruments with banks and financial institutions.
of well-capitalised, relationship based, counterparties each of whom has an appropriate depth of coverage and expertise.
Credit risk is controlled through policies developed both at a Group level and, where appropriate, with regulators at an individual subsidiary level.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 63 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C LIQUIDITY RISK conditions.
The Group manages liquidity risk by depositing funds The Company is exposed to liquidity risk to the extent that it is unable with counterparties of high quality in accordance with Board to meet its daily payment obligations.
The Group maintains sufficient approved policy.
cash and marketable securities together with the availability of funding through adequate committed credit facilities to meet all its financial Treasury policy also requires that the Group maintains adequate obligations as these fall due.
credit facilities to at least cover its funding requirements for the next 12 months.
Significant headroom is maintained in its committed, In addition to the day to day liquidity requirements of Group revolving credit facilities to provide additional liquidity and much companies, CC&G and certain other subsidiary companies are attention has been given during the year to the ongoing credit quality required to maintain a level of liquidity within their own legal entities of the Groups lending banks.
At 31 March 2009 283.5m of these see note 4 for further information to meet regulatory requirements facilities were unutilised 2008: 200.0m.
and or ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets.
Separately, CC&G has access to committed and uncommitted lines Group businesses are profitable and generate significant free cash of credit with intra-day financing from the Bank of Italy to meet the flow.
This free cash flow is available to the Group to invest in capital cash requirements related to settlement see note 28. expenditure, acquisitions, dividend payments, other returns of capital or to reduce debt.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance Management monitors forecasts of the Groups liquidity, prepared sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed to reflect expected cash flow, and overlays sensitivities to these in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
forecasts to reflect assumptions about more difficult market Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 March 2009 m m m m Borrowings 2.3 180.0 193.8 250.0 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 Trade and other payables 112.9 CCP liabilities 35,679.2 35,796.0 180.0 193.8 250.0 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 March 2008 m m m m Borrowings 436.4 250.0 Derivative financial instruments 7.9 Trade and other payables 146.2 CCP liabilities 17,307.7 17,898.2 250.0 London Stock Exchange Group 64 Annual Report 2009
