GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group carries its bank borrowings and bonds at amortised cost, Financial risk factors with interest charged to the income statement over the period of the The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market borrowings using the effective interest rate EIR method.
Its July risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk and 2006 250m bond paid an initial coupon of 5.875 per cent p. a.
Due cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and the to amendments to the Companys long term credit rating, the coupon Groups risk management programme seeks to minimise potential increased to 6.125 per cent and 6.375 per cent in July 2007 and adverse effects on its financial performance.
For the purposes of its interim and annual financial statements at 30 September 2007 and 31 March 2008, the Financial risk management is performed at both a Group level, Group treated this bond as a floating rate instrument and, accordingly, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges did not reflect the impact of the expected future cash flows at the financial risks from a Group perspective and, locally, where original EIR in its calculations.
operating unit risk functions manage particular risks for regulatory or operational purposes.
Following further consideration, the directors decided that, although there were good arguments for treating elements of the bond as Following its establishment in November 2008, the Treasury floating rate, it was more appropriate to have treated this as a fixed Committee, chaired by the CFO, approves those matters not rate instrument.
Accordingly, the prior year financial statements have reserved for the Board operating within Board approved policies been adjusted by restating the carrying amount of the debt instrument covering foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and by discounting the revised cash flows using the original EIR, with investment of excess liquidity.
the resulting adjustments being recorded in the income statement as an exceptional finance cost.
The resulting charge to the income A MARKET RISK statement will be offset following revisions to the EIR calculations, i Foreign exchange risk which will result in reduced future interest expense, over the The Group operates predominantly in the UK and Italy.
Foreign remaining life of the bond.
exchange risk arises from translating the euro earnings, assets and liabilities of the Borsa Italiana sub-group from euro into sterling.
The effect of these adjustments on the prior year is shown below: The Group seeks to reduce its net asset exposure to movements Year ended between sterling and the euro by distributing its net euro denominated 31 March cash earnings in dividends and by raising an appropriate amount of its 2008 Notes m debt in euros.
The Groups euro debt is then serviced by cash generated by Borsa Italiana and its subsidiaries which, in turn, Effect on the income statement has some benefit in reducing Group income statement volatility Profit for the financial year as originally stated 178.5 to movements in exchange rates between sterling and the euro Finance expense: increase 10 7.7 through euro denominated interest expense.
Taxation charge reduction 2.2 Profit for the financial year restated 173.0 At 31 March 2009 151.9m 2008: 152.6m of the Groups debt was denominated in euros and designated as a hedge of the net investment in Borsa Italiana.
During the year to 31 March 2009 a Effect on the balance sheet gain of 24.8m 2008: 6.8m on foreign currency borrowings was Net assets as originally stated 1,268.4 recognised in equity.
There was no ineffectiveness of the hedge to Borrowings increase 7.7 be recognised in the income statement.
Current tax creditor decrease 2.2 Net assets restated 1,262.9 The Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
As at 31 March 2009 the Group has considered movements in the euro over the last year and Year ended has concluded that a 20 per cent movement in rates is a reasonable 31 March benchmark.
At 31 March 2009, if sterling had weakened strengthened 2008 by 20 per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, Effect on earnings per share post tax loss profit for the year would have been unchanged 2008: Basic earnings per share as originally stated 73.1p unchanged : however, equity would have been 6.7m higher 2008: Prior year adjustment 2.3p 6.6m higher 10.2m lower 2008: 9.1m lower.
This reflects Basic earnings per share restated 70.8p foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro Diluted earnings per share as originally stated 71.9p denominated borrowings.
Prior year adjustment 2.2p Diluted earnings per share restated 69.7p Group companies invoice revenues, incur expenses and purchase assets predominantly in their respective local currency, with the exception of EDX London Ltd where foreign exchange derivative There was no effect on adjusted basic earnings per share as the bond contracts have been used to hedge forecast inflows in Swedish krona adjustment is treated as an exceptional item.
see note 27 for further details.
No sensitivity analysis has been prepared for movements in Swedish krona sterling as this has been considered to be insignificant to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
During the year, LSE plc committed to certain contractual obligations in Canadian dollars with payments falling due after the end of the financial year.
Derivative instruments were used to hedge these London Stock Exchange Group 62 Annual Report 2009
