SIGNIFICANT jUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The Group seeks to reduce its cost of capital and to provide superior Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical returns to its shareholders, whilst fulfilling its obligations to the experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders.
The critical judgements and estimates made in the preparation of the Capital comprises resources that are raised by the Group from its financial statements are set out below.
The actual outcome may be shareholders equity capital and from its lenders debt capital.
materially different from that anticipated: Details of the Groups equity capital are set out in note 32 and details of the Groups debt capital current and non-current are set out in a Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable note 28. amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future The Group monitors capital in a number of ways, including on the performance, and estimates of the return required by shareholders basis of the ratio of Net debt to EBITDA.
This ratio is calculated as to determine an appropriate discount rate: total current and non-current borrowings less the cash and cash equivalents that are set aside to meet regulatory requirements and b The determination of the defined benefit pension asset or liability compares this with its EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before is based on the present value of future pension obligations using goodwill impairment, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an items, taxation, profit on disposal of associate and net finance independent qualified actuary: expense.
c Purchased intangible assets are amortised over their estimated Net debt to EBITDA at 31 March 2009 was 1.6 times on an actual useful economic lives.
These lives are based on value in use basis 2008: 1.7 times restated on a pro forma basis, as if the merger calculations using managements best estimate of future with Borsa Italiana had taken place on 1 April 2007.
In managing its performance: Net debt to EBITDA ratio the Group has regard to its weighted average cost of capital WACC and its strategic objective of an d The property provision is determined taking into consideration investment grade credit rating.
The methods by which the Group future expected receipts from sub-letting and future property costs may adjust its capital structure would principally include returns to based on advice from independent property advisers: shareholders, issues of new shares, and increases or reductions of debt.
e Estimates are required in determining the provision for income taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax charge The Group is required to maintain certain levels of liquidity within at the period end and where the final tax liability is different from that certain operating entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
estimate, such differences are reflected in the period in which such As at 31 March 2009 125m 2008: 125m was set aside to meet determination is made: and these requirements including a buffer to absorb short term fluctuations, with the amount subject to ongoing review with f The determination in the Companys financial statements of the regulators in the UK and Italy.
value of the subsidiary companies, London Stock Exchange plc and Borsa Italiana S. p. A. is based on their forecast cash flows, and an appropriate discount rate.
The basis of such values cannot be precise and is subject to market variations in both cases.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 65
