PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Shareholder information Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 155 Share information The Company has only one class of share in issue, ordinary shares of 0.015 pence each Shares.
L ISIN Number: G1000A0MV757 SEDOL Number: BOB3SV4 Share price all prices mid-market per Share at the close of business Offer price 1160.00p 1 January 2009 192.50p High during the period to 31 December 2009 298.50p Low during the period to 31 December 2009 157.25p 31 December 2009 260.00p Increase over the year 35.1% FTSE 250 Index increase over the period 46.3% Adjusted to take account of the ten for one share capital consolidation that took effect on 19 May 2008 and in relation to the original offer price this was 116.00 pence.
Share price information is available on the Companys website, www.
com and the London Stock Exchange website, www.
In the UK, information can also be found in The Financial Times and The Times share price listings.
Market capitalisation The market capitalisation of PartyGaming as at 31 December 2009 was 1.1 billion equivalent to US$1.8 billion.
The Company is currently ranked within the FTSE 250 Index of companies.
Depositary Interests PartyGaming has entered into depositary interest arrangements to enable investors to settle and pay for interests in the Companys Shares through the CREST system.
CREST is a paperless settlement system allowing securities to be transferred from one persons CREST account to another without the need to use share certificates or written instruments of transfer.
Securities issued by non-UK companies, such as PartyGaming, cannot be held or transferred in the CREST system.
Under arrangements, however, put in place by the Company, a depositary, Capita IRG Trustees Limited the Depositary holds the Shares and has issued dematerialised depositary interests Depositary Interests representing the underlying Shares which are held on trust for the holders of the Depositary Interests.
The Depositary Interests are independent securities constituted under English Law which may be held and transferred through the CREST system.
The Depositary Interests have been created pursuant to and issued on the terms of a deed poll executed by the Depositary in favour of the holders of the Depositary Interests from time to time the Deed Poll.
Each Depositary Interest is treated as one Share.
As at 31 December 2009, 294,120,954 Shares were held by the Depositary in respect of a total 294,120,954 Depositary Interests.
There were 1,140 Depositary Interest Holders on the Depositary Interest register as at that date.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Shareholder information 156 The Depositary must pass on to Depositary Interest Holders and, so far as they are reasonably able, exercise on behalf of Depositary Interest Holders all rights and entitlements received, or to which they are entitled in respect of the underlying Shares which are capable of being passed on or exercised.
Rights and entitlements to cash distributions, to information, to make choices and elections and to call for, attend and vote at meetings shall, subject to the Deed Poll, be passed on in the form in which they are received together with amendments and additional documentation necessary to effect such passing-on, or, as the case may be, exercised in accordance with the Deed Poll.
The Depositary Interests have the same ISIN and SEDOL numbers as the underlying Shares and do not have a separate listing on the Official List.
Registrar UK Transfer Agents Depositary Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Capita Registrars Capita IRG Trustees Limited 12 Castle Street The Registry The Registry St. Helier 34 Beckenham Road 34 Beckenham Road Jersey JE2 3RT Beckenham Beckenham Channel Islands Kent BR3 4TU Kent BR3 4TU United Kingdom United Kingdom Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Telephone: 44 0 1534 847000 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
Dividend For the reasons set out in the Chairmans Statement of this Annual Report, the Board is not recommending the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
Annual General Meeting Date and time: Thursday 29 April 2010 at 11.00 a. m. Venue: The Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar.
The Notice of AGM is contained within this Annual Report, setting out the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Corporate calendar 31 December 2009 Year-end 4 March 2010 Announcement of 2009 annual results 26 March 2010 Annual report posted 26 April 2010 Deadline for submitting AGM form of direction or submitting voting instructions via CREST Depository Interest Holders only 27 April 2010 Deadline for submitting AGM proxy forms Shareholders only 9 29 April 2010 Annual General Meeting 30 June 2010 Half year-end 31 December 2010 Year-end Receiving Company documents electronically All PartyGaming Shareholder documents can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, together with previous announcements to the London Stock Exchange, share price information and general information about PartyGaming and its business.
In May 2008, with Shareholder and Depositary Interest Holder approval, PartyGamings Articles were amended to allow the Company to provide all Shareholder and Depositary Interest Holder documents via its website, except where Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders have requested to receive a hard copy of such documents.
This allows PartyGaming to limit the environmental impact of our business and to manage our costs more effectively.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 157 If you are currently receiving hard copies of PartyGaming documents through the post and would like to be kinder to the environment and help reduce PartyGamings costs, you are encouraged to register to receive Company documents via the Companys website.
You can do this by going to the registrars website, www.
com and registering for electronic communications.
You will be notified that Company documents are on the corporate website by written notification which will be mailed to you unless when registering to receive documents electronically you request to be notified by email rather than post.
A table of those parties with a material interest in 3% or more of the Companys share capital or, in the case of other interests in 10% or more of the share capital, as notified to the Company in accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Gibraltar Disclosure of Interests in Shares Act 1998, the Articles and Deed Poll, is set out in the Directors Report on page 90.
Company announcements Copies of announcements made by the Company are available on the Companys website, www.
Taxation The following statements are intended to apply only as a general guide to current tax law for an individual Shareholder who holds Shares as an investment and who is the beneficial owner of the Shares.
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisers in connection with their potential liability to pay tax in the country of their nationality or the country where they live on disposal, gift or bequest of their Shares or on the receipt of dividends.
Taxation of capital gains There is no capital gains tax in Gibraltar on a disposal of Shares, but Shareholders may be liable to pay tax in the country of their nationality or the country where they live.
Stamp duty No stamp duty is chargeable in Gibraltar on the transfer of Shares and there is no stamp duty reserve tax in Gibraltar.
Provided that the Shares are not registered in any register kept in the UK by or on behalf of the Company, an agreement to transfer the Shares would not be expected to be subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
The Share register is not kept in the UK and it is not intended that any such register will be kept in the UK.
A transfer on sale of Shares would not be expected to be subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and does not relate to any property situated or to any matter or thing to be done in the UK.
No UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is expected to be payable on an agreement to transfer Depositary Interests within CREST provided that relevant conditions are met including in particular that i no register of Shares is kept in the UK by or on behalf of the Company: and ii the central management and control of the Company is not exercised in the UK.
It is intended that these conditions will be met.
It is not expected that an instrument subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax would be created in respect of such a transfer.
