PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Notice of AGM 158 Notice is hereby given that the 2010 Annual General Meeting of PartyGaming Plc will be held on Thursday 29 April 2010 at 11.00 a. m. at the Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar to consider the following business with the exception of resolutions 8 and 9, which are special resolutions, all resolutions are proposed as ordinary resolutions, and all resolutions will be decided on a poll : 1.
To receive the financial statements, Directors Report and Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
To re-appoint BDO LLP and BDO Limited as the Companys auditors with BDO Limited acting as the auditor for the purposes of section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999.
To authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration.
To re-appoint Tim Bristow as a Director.
To re-appoint Lord Moonie as a Director.
That, in place of the existing authority: i the Board of Directors be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 66 of the Companies Act 1930 as amended to exercise all powers of the Company to allot Relevant Securities as defined in article 6 of the Companys articles of association the Articles up to an aggregate nominal amount of 20,623.00 and further, ii the Board of Directors be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 66 of the Companies Act 1930 as amended to exercise all powers of the Company to allot Relevant Securities comprising Equity Securities as defined by article 20 of the Articles up to a nominal amount of 41,246.00 including within such limit any Relevant Securities allotted under sub-paragraph i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: A to Ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as practicable to their existing holdings: and B to people who are holders of other Equity Securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Board of Directors considers it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, provided that these authorities shall expire at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting in the year 2011 or, if earlier, at close of business on 29 July 2011, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board of Directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authorities conferred hereby had not expired.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 159 8.
That subject to the passing of the previous resolution and in place of the existing authority, the Board of Directors be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to articles 22 to 25 of the Articles to allot Equity Securities as defined by article 20 of the Articles for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution as though articles 14 to 21 of the Articles did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of Equity Securities in connection with an offer of Equity Securities but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 7 ii by way of a rights issue only : A to Ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as practicable to their existing holdings: and B to people who are holders of other Equity Securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Board of Directors considers it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and ii in the case of the authority granted under resolution 7 i, to the allotment otherwise than under sub-paragraph i above of Equity Securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,093.00, and shall expire at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting in the year 2011 or, if earlier, at close of business on 29 July 2011, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Equity Securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board of Directors may allot Equity Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 79 of the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended of ordinary shares of 0.00015 each of the Company Shares provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 41,247,236: ii the minimum price that may be paid for any such Share is 0.00015, being the nominal value of a Share: iii the maximum price that may be paid for any such Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share as derived from the Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is contracted to be purchased: and iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in the year 2011 or, if earlier, at close of business on 29 July 2011: but a contract for purchase may be made before such expiry, that will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors Robert Hoskin Company Secretary PartyGaming Plc 711 Europort Gibraltar 4 March 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Notice of AGM 160 Notes: 1.
General The Notice of AGM is an important document.
If there is anything you do not understand then you should consult with the appropriate professional adviser.
If you have any questions regarding how to attend and or vote at the AGM then please contact the Registrar.
If you have recently sold all of your PartyGaming Shares and or Depositary Interests then please send this document and the enclosed forms to the person who sold the Shares Depositary Interests for you.
They can then send them to the new owner of the Shares Depositary Interests.
References to times in the AGM notice are to the time in Gibraltar which is one hour ahead of British Summer Time BST.
The business of the meeting is set out in the AGM notice and a summary of and rationale for each resolution is set out in the Directors Report on pages 90 to 93 of this Annual Report.
Biographies of the Directors recommended for re-election are set out on pages 88 to 89 of this Annual Report.
The Board unanimously recommends the re-appointment of these Directors for the reasons set out in the Report of the Nominations Committee on page 98 of this Annual Report.
Right of attendance 2.1 Shareholders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be a Shareholder of PartyGaming, holding Shares entered on the Companys register of members by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 27 April 2010.
2.2 Depositary Interest Holders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be entered on PartyGamings register of Depositary Interests by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 27 April 2010 and bring to the AGM a letter of corporate representation validly executed on behalf of the Depositary the letter of corporate representation can be obtained from the Depositary.
Voting 3.1 Shareholders Shareholders may attend the AGM in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll.
A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may also appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote in his her place.
A proxy need not be a Shareholder.
A proxy may demand or join in demanding a poll and has the right to speak at the meeting.
A proxy form may be submitted in hard copy form by post or courier or electronically via the www.
Hard copy proxy forms must be completed by or on behalf of the Shareholder.
If the Shareholder is a corporation then the proxy form must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
A proxy form is enclosed with the Annual Report.
To be valid, completed proxy forms must be returned to Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU to be received no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 27 April 2010.
Shareholders wishing to submit proxy forms electronically should visit the www.
com website and select the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page.
To be valid, electronic proxy instructions must be received by the Registrar no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 27 April 2010.
A corporation which is a Shareholder may, by resolution of its directors or other relevant governing body, authorise a person or persons to act as its representative or representatives at the AGM.
The representative or representatives should produce to the Registrar and or Company Secretary a certified copy of the resolution of authorisation when attending the AGM.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 161 3.2 Depositary Interest Holders Depositary Interest Holders may attend in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll if the Depositary has appointed them a corporate representative see section 2.2 above.
Depositary Interest Holders not wishing to attend the AGM but wishing to vote in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM can do so by instructing the Depositary.
This may be done in one of two ways: i Depositary Interest Holders who are CREST members may give such an instruction utilising the CREST electronic voting service in accordance with the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Depositary Interest Holders or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for an instruction made by CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos requirements and must contain information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, in order to be valid, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Depositarys agent, ID RA10 by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 26 April 2010.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the Depositarys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Depositary may treat as invalid a CREST voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Please refer to the CREST Manual for further guidance.
ii Depositary Interest Holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST should complete the enclosed form of direction and submit it to the Depositary.
If the Depositary Interest Holder is a corporation then the form of direction must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
To be valid, forms of direction must be received by the Depositary no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 26 April 2010.
PartyGaming employees PartyGaming employees who have exercised their PartyGaming options and have retained all some of the resultant Shares and hold these Shares through the PartyGaming Nominee Account Service, Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited and wish to attend the AGM should request Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited to appoint them as a corporate representative.
This is done by completing the Nominee Account Instruction form enclosed with the Annual Report.
Whether an eligible employee wishes to attend the AGM or not, they are recommended to complete the Nominee Account Instruction form and send it to The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom, to be received no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 26 April 2010.
Documents for inspection Copies of the following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office at 711 Europort, Gibraltar.
These documents will also be available for inspection at the Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar on the day of the meeting from 10.30 a. m. until the conclusion of the meeting: Memorandum and Articles of Association: Listing Particulars: Executive Directors Service Agreements: Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment: The signed Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2009: Register of Members: and Register of Depositary Interest Holders.
