52 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Glossary of Terms Return to shareholders Performance Attribution Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends performance relative to its benchmark.
received were reinvested in the shares of the Performance Attribution Definitions: Company at the time the shares were quoted Allocation Effect ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of reinvestment are Measures the impact of allocating assets differently not taken into account.
to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios Return on net assets weighting in different countries, sectors or asset Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a types.
bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested Selection Effect in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at Measures the effect of investing in securities to a the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside of Benchmark Return the benchmark.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market Gearing Cash Effect value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or dividends received net of tax were reinvested in the cash balances on the Companys relative shares of the underlying companies at time the performance.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which Fees Expenses should not be taken as wholly representative of the The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level Companys investment universe.
The Companys of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on investment strategy does not follow or track this relative performance.
index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and Residual that of the stated index.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by Fundamental Data includes Actual Gearing Factor dividends paid out by the Investment Trust and total Investments expressed as a percentage of return from the attribution systems includes shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing dividend income received on the stocks held by the on the net asset value if the market value of the Investment Trust.
This is a result of methodologies portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Total Expense Ratio TER Share Buyback Management fees and all other operating expenses Measures the effect on relative performance of excluding interest and professional fees incurred in decreasing the number of shares in issue.
connection with VAT recoveries, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Discount Premium If the share price of an investment company is lower than the net asset value NAV per share, the trust is said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 020 7742 9999 9.00 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
