50 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Meeting ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Notice is hereby given that the one ordinary share shall be 25p: hundred and twenty third Annual iii the maximum price which may be paid for an General Meeting of The Mercantile ordinary share or unit shall be an amount Investment Trust plc will be held at equal to a 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary Trinity House, Tower Hill, London share taken from and calculated by reference EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 29th April to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 2009 at 12 noon for the following List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary purposes: share is purchased, or b the price of the last 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual independent trade: or c the highest current Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year independent bid: ended 31st January 2009. iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report in the market for cash at prices below the for the year ended 31st January 2009. prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : 3 To re-elect Hamish Leslie Melville a Director of the Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 28th October 2010 unless the authority is 4 To re-appoint  LLP as renewed at the Companys Annual General auditors to the Company and to authorise the Meeting in 2010 or at any other general Directors to determine their remuneration.
meeting prior to such time: and Special Business: vi the Company may make a contract to To consider the following resolution: purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special authority and may make a purchase of Resolution ordinary shares pursuant to any such 5 THAT the Company be generally and subject as contract notwithstanding such expiry.
hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases By order of the Board within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, its issued ordinary shares of 25p each in the Secretary capital of the Company.
24th March 2009 PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 15,338,063 or if less, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51 Notes 7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with These notes should be reading conjunction with the notes on the guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
reverse of the proxy form.
8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may to act as its representatives and to vote in person at the appoint another person s who need not be a member of the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the and vote at the Meeting, provided that each proxy is Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman held by him.
of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all the must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to representative, a designated corporate representative will be count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend who will vote on a poll and the other corporate the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will representatives will give voting directions to that designated automatically be terminated.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the institute of Chartered Secretaries 3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
can note be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their may have a right under an agreement between him and the appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a 9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
persons in the share capital of the Company is available for If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not inspection at the Companys registered office during usual wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and agreement to give instructions to the member as to the public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for exercise of voting rights.
inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
4 An instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged 10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
11 As at 24th March 2009 being the latest business day prior to 5 You may change your proxy instruction by returning a new the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy capital consists of 102,321,968 ordinary shares, carrying one appointments see above also applies in relation to amended vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy 102,321,968. appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments Electronic appointment CREST members of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by of the same Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further 6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the instructions on the proxy form.
purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
