67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 1 General information Cable and Wireless plc the Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It operates through two standalone businesses CWI and Worldwide.
CWI operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband and domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
It has four major operations being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
Worldwide provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services around the globe.
During the year, Worldwide acquired 100% of the share capital of Thus Group plc Thus refer to note 39 for more information.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2009.
These financial statements are presented in Sterling and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 45 of the Directors report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRSs during the year ended 31 March 2009.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations effective at dates from 1 April 2008 adopted by the Group Title Effective date Description Impact on the Group Amendments to IAS 39 & IFRS 7 1 July 2008 The amendments allow an entity to reclassify certain This amendment did not have Reclassification of Financial Instruments non-derivative financial assets out of the fair value through a material impact on the Group.
the income statement category in particular circumstances, and to transfer certain financial assets from the availablefor-sale category to the loans and receivables category.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual periods The amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service This amendment did not have Share-based Payment: beginning on conditions and performance conditions only.
It also specifies a material impact on the Group.
Vesting Conditions and Cancellations or after that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, 1 January 2008 should receive the same accounting treatment, which results in the acceleration of the charge.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and adopted early by the Group Title Effective date Description Impact on the Group Amendments to IAS 23 Annual periods The amendments remove the option to expense interest This amendment was Borrowing Costs beginning on qualifying assets.
consistent with current on or after Group policy.
1 January 2009 IFRIC 13 Annual periods The IFRIC clarifies that where goods or services are sold This interpretation did not have Customer Loyalty Programmes beginning together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement a material impact on the Group.
on or after is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration 1 July 2008 receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
Financial statements Group 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards continued New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and not adopted early by the Group Expected adoption date and Title Effective date Description impact on the Group IFRS 8 Annual periods The IFRS requires disclosures in respect of the operating The Group will adopt this Operating Segments beginning segments of the Group.
This standard requires segmental standard for 2009 10. on or after disclosures presented on the basis upon which It will not have a material 1 January 2009 management views the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Annual periods The amendment removes the concept of preand The Group will adopt for Cost of an Investment in a subsidiary, beginning post-acquisition reserves from IFRSs.
The amendments jointly-controlled entity or associate 1 January 2009 will not have a material impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 1 Annual periods The amendments affect the presentation of owner changes The Group will adopt for Presentation of Financial Statements: beginning in equity and introduce the concept of comprehensive 2009 10.
These amendments A Revised Presentation on or after income.
They do not change the recognition, measurement will not have a material impact 1 January 2009 or disclosure of specific transactions and events required on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Annual periods The amendments require some puttable financial The Group will adopt for Puttable Financial Instruments and beginning instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 2009 10.
The amendments Obligations Arising on Liquidation 1 January 2009 deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets do not affect the Group.
of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as equity.
IFRIC 12 Annual periods The interpretation gives guidance on the accounting The Group will adopt for Service Concession Arrangements beginning by operators for public-to-private service concession 2009 10.
The Group is on or after arrangements.
considering the implications 1 January 2008 of this interpretation.
but adoption was deferred by EU Commission Regulation IFRIC 14 Annual periods IFRIC 14 clarifies three issues: This interpretation will not IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, beginning how entities should determine the limit placed by IAS 19 have a material impact on the Minimum Funding Requirements and their on or after Employee Benefits on the amount of a surplus in a Group.
Given the adoption Interaction 1 January 2008 pension plan they can recognise as an asset: extension from the EU, the but adoption how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit: and Group will adopt for 2009 10. was deferred by when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous EU Commission obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition Regulation to that otherwise recognised under IAS 19.
Improvements to IFRS Annual periods The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous The Group will adopt for beginning necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRSs.
The improvements on or after are not expected to have a 1 January 2009 material impact on the Group.
69 New and amended Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union and the Group Expected adoption date subject to European Union endorsement and Title Effective date Description impact on the Group Revised IFRS 3 Annual periods The main changes in the revised IFRS 3 include the separate No assessment can be Business Combinations beginning accounting of acquisition related costs, changes to business determined of the impact as on or after combinations achieved in stages and changes to the it relates to prospective 1 July 2009 accounting for business combinations where less than 100% transactions.
The Group will of the equity is acquired.
These changes will be effective for adopt for the 2010 11 year.
businesses purchased by the Group after 31 March 2010.
Revised IAS 27 Annual periods The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a parents This amendment is consistent Consolidated and Separate beginning ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the with current Group policy and Financial Statements on or after loss of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
1 July 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 Annual periods The amendment clarifies how existing hedge accounting This amendment will be Financial Instruments beginning principles should be applied to the designation of a one-sided adopted in 2009 10 and will Recognition and Measurement: on or after risk in a hedged item and to inflation in a hedged item.
not have a material impact on Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009 the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Annual periods This amendment contains further disclosure requirements This amendment requires Improving Disclosures about beginning to enhance the information available to investors about fair additional disclosures only Financial Instruments on or after value measurement and liquidity risk associated with an and will not have a material 1 January 2009 entitys financial instruments.
impact on the Group when adopted in 2009 10.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and Annual periods The amendments clarify that on reclassification of a This amendment will be IAS 39 beginning financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss adopted in 2009 10 and will Embedded Derivatives on or after category all embedded derivatives have to be assessed and, not have a material impact on 30 June 2009 if necessary, separately accounted for in financial statements.
IFRIC 16 Annual periods This Interpretation provides guidance on the nature of the This amendment will be Hedges of a Net Investment beginning hedged risk and the amount of the hedged item for which adopted in 2009 10 and will in a Foreign Operation on or after a hedging relationship may be designated, where in the not have a material impact on 1 October 2008 group a hedging instrument can be held and which the Group.
amounts should be reclassified from equity to the income statement as reclassification adjustments on disposal of the foreign operation.
IFRIC 17 Annual periods The Interpretation requires dividends payable to be This amendment will be Distributions of Non-cash Assets beginning recognised when they are no longer at the discretion adopted in 2009 10 and will to Owners on or after of the entity, and measured at the fair value of the assets not have a material impact on 1 July 2009 to be distributed.
The entity must review and adjust this the Group.
carrying amount at each reporting date recognising changes in equity as adjustments in the amount of the distribution and at the settlement date recognising differences between the dividend payable and the assets distributed in the income statement.
IFRIC 18 Annual periods This IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRSs are applied to The Group will adopt for Transfers of Assets from Customers beginning agreements in which an entity receives an item of property, 2009 10.
The Group is on or after plant and equipment from a customer or cash to construct considering the implications 1 July 2009 such item which it then uses to connect the customer to a of this Interpretation.
network or provide ongoing access to goods or services.
In particular, initial recognition and measurement, accounting for the transfer and recognition of revenue are clarified.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Financial statements Group 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 2.3 Basis of consolidation continued The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Joint ventures Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Accounting policies of joint ventures have been conformed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised directly in Group reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its interest or participation including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest or participation.
2.4 Segmental reporting The Group discloses its primary segment reporting by business segment.
The Directors consider that this is the most appropriate distinction between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities.
A business segment is defined as a component of the Group engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment.
Assets and capital expenditure that relate to a range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated.
The Group discloses its secondary segment reporting by geographical segment.
A geographical segment is defined as a component of the Group engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where the telecommunication services are delivered.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based on their location.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into Sterling as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
71 Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Where net investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency borrowings and the hedge is effective, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such borrowings are also recorded as movements on the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to the income statement.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs relating to borrowings made to finance separately identifiable major capital projects those that take six months or more to complete are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The interest costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values.
These gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction.
They are stated at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Provision is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or joint venture.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in those investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Financial statements Group 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 2.7 Intangible assets continued Other intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives.
The useful lives of licences including concessions to provide telecommunication services are determined based on the terms of the agreements including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts 4 to 15 years Other 3 to 5 years 2.8 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group currently does not classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less an allowance for impairment if necessary.
An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The allowance is initially recognised in the income statement.
Recognition and measurement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets not carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement.
73 The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether it is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
This loss is measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the security increases in a later period.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group only hedges net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of cash flows of hedged items.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges by recognising any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Group were initially recognised at fair value.
The bond was separated into liability and equity components.
The liability component was recognised at amortised cost.
The equity component represented the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
The liability component was subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Puttable instruments Puttable instruments on minority interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the Group as a financial liability.
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to minority interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Fair value estimation for financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less estimated impairments and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10 Impairment of assets excluding financial instruments Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Financial statements Group 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 2.10 Impairment of assets excluding financial instruments continued The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or cash generating units to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the respective businesses.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 17.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.11 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.13 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options for the acquisition of a business are included in the cost of acquisition.
2.14 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in payables.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
The component part for buildings is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Leases of land and all other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the balance sheet.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.15 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are classified as non-current assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
2.16 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
75 Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are recognised as the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
Current service costs are charged to the income statement.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Termination benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Cash Long Term Incentive Plan The Group operates a Cash Long Term Incentive Plan.
The plan rewards Executive Directors responsible for, and certain senior employees in, CWI and Worldwide.
The plan is accounted for as an other long-term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date.
The LTIP creates a reward pool over a four year period from 1 April 2006 or until a vesting event, if earlier depending on the extent to which the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period.
Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period i to reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business ii to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business and iii increased by the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business which will be at least 8% per annum compounded.
Financial statements Group 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 2.16 Employee benefits continued If the business value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool.
To the extent that the business value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value goes into the reward pool.
75% of the reward pool is payable to participants at the end of year three April 2009, and 100% payable less payments made at end of year three to all participants at the end of year four April 2010.
Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond with the Groups accounting periods.
However, apart from good leavers nothing vests to the participants until the end of year three.
Proposals regarding changes to the LTIP are outlined in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
2.17 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.18 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, expected settlement costs.
2.19 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
Revenue from service contracts that cover periods of greater than 12 months is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the services delivered at the reporting date.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the provision of other mobile telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
77 Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: establishment of the price: provision of customer remedies: performance of part of the service: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
2.20 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.21 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.22 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
Financial statements Group 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy of the overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement.
3.4 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.5 Impairment of receivables The allowance for impairment of trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.6 Customer and supplier commitments The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine the revenue and expense recognised in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate the net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.7 Interconnection with other operators As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.8 Taxation The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges or credits.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.9 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
79 3.10 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.18.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.11 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 31 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 31.
3.12 Fair value estimation The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made.
Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
3.13 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the valuation of CWI and Worldwide to determine the obligation for the LTIP.
The estimates require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective.
Proposals regarding changes to the LTIP are outlined in the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
Financial statements Group 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 4 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider.
During the year Cable & Wireless operated two primary business segments CWI and Worldwide.
The CWI business operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
The Worldwide business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services around the globe.
This business now incorporates Thus, which was acquired on 1 October 2008.
Continuing operations The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are presented below: 1 Other and CWI Worldwide eliminations Total 2008 09 m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,392 2,268 14 3,646 Pre-exceptional operating costs 1,037 2,171 14 3,222 Exceptional operating costs 49 76 8 133 Group operating profit loss 306 21 36 291 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 34 34 Total operating profit loss 340 21 36 325 Other income 10 Net finance expense 102 Profit before income tax 233 Tax 17 Profit for the year from continuing operations 216 2007 08 Continuing operations Revenue 1,229 1,941 18 3,152 Pre-exceptional operating costs 963 1,896 9 2,868 Exceptional operating costs income 50 13 37 Group operating profit loss 216 58 27 247 Share of post-tax profit loss of joint ventures 38 1 37 Total operating profit loss 254 57 27 284 Other income 15 Net finance expense 32 Profit before income tax 267 Tax 47 Profit for the year from continuing operations 220 1 Other includes Central expenses.
Inter-segment sales are not significant and are charged at arms length prices.
81 The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are: 1 Other and CWI Worldwide eliminations Total 2008 09 m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 1,860 2,715 392 4,967 Joint ventures 225 225 Total assets 2,085 2,715 392 5,192 Total liabilities 772 1,434 941 3,147 Capital expenditure 192 265 457 Acquisitions 7 571 578 Depreciation and amortisation 167 212 379 Increase decrease in provisions 15 58 6 67 2007 08 Continuing operations Segment assets 1,537 1,859 621 4,017 Joint ventures 150 8 142 Total assets 1,687 1,851 621 4,159 Total liabilities 686 1,053 541 2,280 Capital expenditure 190 221 411 Acquisitions 12 9 21 Depreciation and amortisation 142 157 299 Impairment 37 37 Increase decrease in provisions 48 9 32 7 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating items including tax balances.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent those businesses which have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale at the year end.
There were no businesses held for sale at 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 none.
Details of the results of discontinued operations in prior periods are set out in note 14.
A profit of 10 million see note 14 relating to discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2009 is recorded in the Other and eliminations segment 2007 08 nil.
Financial statements Group 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 4 Segment information continued Secondary reporting format geographical segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: Worldwide global, Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World ROW.
The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are presented below: 1 Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Worldwide eliminations Total 2008 09 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 554 379 172 164 123 2,268 14 3,646 Operating costs 432 266 114 144 81 2,171 14 3,222 Exceptional operating costs 39 3 7 76 8 133 Group operating profit loss 83 110 58 20 35 21 36 291 Share of post-tax profit loss of joint ventures 17 2 19 34 Total operating profit loss 100 110 58 18 54 21 36 325 Other income 10 Net finance expense 102 Profit before income tax 233 Tax 17 Profit for the year from continuing operations 216 2007 08 Continuing operations Revenue 510 308 145 145 121 1,941 18 3,152 Operating costs 421 218 100 129 95 1,896 9 2,868 Exceptional operating costs income 44 2 4 13 37 Group operating profit loss 45 90 45 14 22 58 27 247 Share of post-tax profit loss of joint ventures 21 215 1 37 Total operating profit loss 66 90 45 16 37 57 27 284 Other income 15 Net finance expense 32 Profit before income tax 267 Tax 47 Profit for the year from continuing operations 220 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
83 The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are: 1 Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Worldwide eliminations Total 2008 09 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 817 446 143 318 136 2,715 392 4,967 Joint ventures 146 10 69 225 Total assets 963 446 143 328 205 2,715 392 5,192 Total liabilities 218 196 47 217 94 1,434 941 3,147 Capital expenditure 86 47 20 11 28 265 457 Acquisitions 7 571 578 Depreciation and amortisation 68 44 21 17 17 212 379 Increase decrease in provisions 16 3 2 2 58 6 67 2007 08 Continuing operations Segment assets 652 314 103 313 155 1,859 621 4,017 Joint ventures 93 10 47 8 142 Total assets 745 314 103 323 202 1,851 621 4,159 Total liabilities 205 141 34 211 95 1,053 541 2,280 Capital expenditure 88 52 18 4 28 221 411 Acquisitions 12 9 21 Depreciation and amortisation 59 37 17 14 15 157 299 Impairment 37 37 Increase decrease in provisions 9 1 1 37 9 32 7 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Revenue is allocated to segments based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered.
It does not follow necessarily that the international telecommunication traffic transiting the Groups networks originates in that location.
The Group does not have access to information on the original source or ultimate destination of all international telecommunication traffic.
Discontinued operations There was no revenue nor segment assets relating to discontinued operations for the years ended and as at 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008.
5 Revenue 2008 09 2007 08 m m Continuing operations Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,583 3,095 Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 63 57 Total revenue 3,646 3,152 There was no revenue from discontinued operations during the current and the prior year.
Financial statements Group 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 6 Operating costs An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Group, classified by the nature of the cost, is presented below: 2008 09 2007 08 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Outpayments and direct costs 1,759 1,759 1,541 1,541 Employee and other staff expenses 501 73 574 480 44 524 Operating lease rentals networks 52 52 23 23 property 64 25 89 65 65 plant and equipment 1 1 1 1 Other administrative expenses 163 21 184 189 1 190 Network costs 201 14 215 201 2 203 Property and utility costs 100 100 74 6 80 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,841 133 2,974 2,574 53 2,627 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 316 316 252 37 289 Amortisation of intangible assets 63 63 47 47 Operating costs 3,220 133 3,353 2,873 90 2,963 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Exceptional items In 2008 09, exceptional items mainly relate to the continuing programme of restructuring the Groups operations including the integration of Thus and the One Caribbean programme including redundancy, vacant property and onerous network costs.
Exceptional items within operating costs are disclosed below while further information on exceptional items can be found in notes 7, 11 and 12.
2008 09 2007 08 Note m m Exceptional items within operating costs Staff costs i 73 44 Property costs ii 25 6 Other costs iii 35 6 Legal costs iv 11 Gain on Seychelles cash repatriation v 14 Impairment of assets vi 37 Total exceptional operating costs 133 90 i Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Groups operations in continuing businesses.
In 2008 09, the expenses relate to CWI 34 million net of 8 million of gains from restructuring post-retirement plans in Jamaica and Barbados see note 31 and Worldwide 39 million net of a 2 million provision release see note 30 and include redundancy related pension curtailment losses of 4 million.
In 2007 08 the expenses related to CWI 14 million and Worldwide 30 million net of a 1 million provision release see note 30 and a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of 2 million.
ii Property costs in 2008 09 include provisions relating to vacant property in Worldwide 17 million net of 14 million of provision releases see note 30 and in Central 8 million.
In 2007 08, property costs included provisions relating to vacant property in Worldwide and was net of 4 million of provision releases see note 30. iii Other costs in 2008 09 relate to the provision for network costs of 14 million net of 6 million of provision releases see note 30 and other restructuring costs of 6 million in Worldwide and 15 million of restructuring charges relating to the One Caribbean programme in CWI.
Other costs in 2007 08 related to the provisions for onerous network costs and other restructuring costs in CWI 2 million and Worldwide 4 million.
As a consequence of i to iii above, in 2008 09 an exceptional tax credit of 7 million was recognised.
iv In 2007 08, the Group received a legal claim from Digicel, a competitor in the Caribbean.
Exceptional legal costs related to the legal and other fees for the Groups defence against the claim.
No provision for settlement has been made.
85 v In 2007 08, the Group concluded a transaction to repatriate 24 million of funds from the Seychelles that had previously been blocked due to exchange controls.
The gain arising on the release of allowances held against these funds was 14 million.
As a consequence of this transaction, there was a 5 million tax charge on the exceptional amount.
vi In 2007 08, an impairment review was conducted by Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd which resulted in an impairment of mobile network assets by 37 million see note 17.
Auditors remuneration The remuneration of the auditor and its associates for services provided to the Group during the year was 9.4 million including 0.1 million relating to the prior year 2007 08 4.8 million including 0.3 million relating to 2006 07.
2008 09 2007 08 m m Audit services Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 2.3 1.9 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of the Groups accounts 0.2 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.3 2.1 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 1.5 1.1 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of other statutory accounts 0.1 0.1 Audit related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.4 4.3 3.7 Tax services compliance 0.3 0.4 Tax services advisory 0.2 0.1 Services related to corporate finance 3.9 Other services 0.7 0.6 9.4 4.8 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
7 Other operating income In 2008 09, other operating income related to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 1 million and the sale of a database for 1 million.
In 2007 08, other operating income related to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 5 million and cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of 4 million.
Exceptional other operating income related to the sale and leaseback of nine freehold properties in the Worldwide business in April 2007.
The disposal of these properties for 88 million resulted in a profit of 53 million.
8 Other operating expenses The other operating expense of 4 million 2007 08 4 million relates to 2 million 2007 08 2 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and 2 million 2007 08 2 million of costs relating to hurricane damage.
Financial statements Group 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 9 Employee and other staff expenses Costs of employees and contract staff of the Group The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below: 2008 09 2007 08 m m Wages and salaries 486 437 Social security costs 35 32 Share-based payments 13 16 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan 17 27 Pension credit expense defined benefit plans 14 21 defined contribution plans 18 15 Temporary labour and recruitment 18 22 573 528 Less: Staff costs capitalised 72 48 Staff costs 501 480 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses of 73 million 2007 08 44 million are set out in note 6.
Average number of employees The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2008 09 2007 08 CWI CWI headquarters 109 151 Caribbean 3,196 3,964 Panama 1,900 1,885 Macau 903 919 Monaco 434 502 Rest of the World 672 685 Total CWI 7,214 8,106 Worldwide 5,605 5,318 Other 89 86 Total Group 12,908 13,510 There were no employees in discontinued operations.
Key managements remuneration Key management includes Directors and any senior staff that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of Cable & Wireless.
Remuneration of key management is set out below: 2008 09 2007 08 m m Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 6 8 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Termination benefits 1 3 Share-based payments 5 7 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan 7 15 Total 20 34 Directors remuneration is disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
Excluding Directors, key management expenses of 7 million 2007 08 10 million were included in staff costs during the year.
87 10 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 2008 09 2007 08 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 7 7 1 1 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets arise on the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or investments.
In 2008 09, the gain on disposals of non-current assets of 7 million principally arose on the recycling of foreign currency translation reserve balances on liquidation of subsidiaries.
In 2007 08, the gain on disposals of non-current assets of 1 million reflected the release of a provision related to the sale of the Groups interest in Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC Batelco.
11 Gain on termination of operations 2008 09 2007 08 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gain on termination of operations 3 3 86 14 The pre-exceptional gain on termination of operations in both periods presented relates to the results of the activities of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited Pender, which ceased taking on new business in April 2003.
The 2007 08 exceptional gain of 6 million arose from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect of Pender.
12 Finance income and expense 2008 09 2007 08 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 23 23 52 52 Investment income 1 1 Foreign exchange gains on deposits 6 6 Total finance income 29 29 53 53 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 22 22 13 13 Interest on other loans 28 28 46 46 Finance charges on leases 2 2 2 2 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 7 7 8 8 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 14 14 8 8 Impairment of financial asset 4 4 Losses on derivative foreign exchange contracts 5656 Loss on convertible bonds repurchase 1010 77 56 133 77 10 87 Less: Interest capitalised 2 2 2 2 Total finance expense 75 56 131 75 10 85 Tax relief of nil is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2009 2007 08 1 million.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 5% 2007 08 7%.
Financial statements Group 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 12 Finance income and expense continued During the period, the Group entered into various foreign exchange contracts to lock in the Sterling cash value of the forecast cash repatriations from foreign operations as well as that of the drawdowns on the Groups $415 million bank facility see note 27.
This resulted in an exceptional finance expense of 56 million from expiry of these contracts during the year and re-measuring open contracts to fair value at year end.
During 2007 08, convertible bonds with a par value of 138 million were repurchased for cash of 190 million.
This resulted in an exceptional loss of 10 million being the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the underlying debt component of the repurchased bonds.
For further information, refer to note 27.
13 Income tax expense 2008 09 2007 08 m m Current tax charge continuing operations UK tax at 28% 2007 08 30% 24 63 Double tax relief 24 63 Overseas tax 61 63 Adjustments relating to prior years 11 1 Total current tax charge continuing operations 50 62 Deferred tax credit continuing operations Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33 13 Adjustments relating to prior years 2 Total deferred tax credit continuing operations 33 15 Total tax charge continuing operations 17 47 There was a nil tax charge relating to discontinued operations 2007 08 nil.
The 17 million 2007 08 47 million tax charge is net of a 7 million 2007 08 14 million credit in respect of the exceptional operating costs included in note 6.
In 2007 08 it was also net of a 5 million charge for Seychelles withholding tax on dividends remitted.
The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2008 09 2007 08 % % UK statutory tax rate 28.0 30.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 4.1 5.7 Effect of accounting for joint ventures 4.1 3.3 Effect of branches and intra-group dividends less double tax relief 10.7 7.8 Net effect of disallowed expenditure income not taxable 2.4 3.7 Effect of other temporary differences 1.7 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 23.1 6.7 Adjustments relating to prior years 4.5 0.8 Effective tax rate 7.0 17.6 14 Discontinued operations There were no businesses discontinued during the year 2007 08 none.
In 2008 09, the net profit of 10 million from discontinued operations relates to the reversal of unutilised provisions see note 30 relating to the Groups former US operations and businesses disposed of in prior periods.
In 2007 08, the net profit of nil from discontinued operations included the reversal of unutilised provisions of 5 million relating to the Groups former US operations and businesses disposed of in prior periods and the write-off of a 5 million receivable relating to the Groups former US operations.
89 15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2008 09 2007 08 m m Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 143 164 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding millions 2,486 2,424 Dilutive effect of share options millions 26 42 Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share millions 2,512 2,466 Basic earnings per share pence per share 5.8p 6.8p Diluted earnings per share pence per share 5.7p 6.6p Continuing operations Profit and adjusted profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 133 164 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations pence per share 5.4p 6.8p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations pence per share 5.3p 6.6p Discontinued operations Profit and adjusted profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 10 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations pence per share 0.4p Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations pence per share 0.4p The convertible bonds extinguished in 2007 08 were excluded from the number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share in that year as they were not dilutive.
16 Dividends declared and paid 2008 09 2007 08 m m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 123 100 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 71 61 Total dividend paid 194 161 During the year ended 31 March 2009 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 5.00 pence per share 2007 08 4.15 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008.
The Group also declared and paid an interim dividend of 2.83 pence per share 2007 08 2.50 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2009, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 5.67 pence per share 2007 08 5.00 pence per share, totalling 142 million 2007 08 123 million, for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 17 July 2009.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2010.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend.
12,057 shareholders 2007 08 12,379 shareholders owning 558 million shares 2007 08 708 million shares elected to take the interim dividend wholly or partly in shares.
12,138 shareholders 2007 08 12,531 shareholders owning 613 million shares 2007 08 122 million shares elected to take the 2007 08 final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
Consequently, total shares were issued with a value of 47 million 2007 08 23 million.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
Financial statements Group 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 17 Impairment review The Group reviews goodwill for impairment annually.
The Group assesses the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets except goodwill for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable by sale or through use.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2009.
In performing this review, the recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
The significant balances of goodwill and the Groups assessment are discussed below.
Worldwide Including the acquired Thus business, which has been integrated into Worldwide during the period, Worldwide has one cash generating unit on a forward looking basis.
It generates revenue through an integrated network for which the business is unable to identify relevant cash flows separately.
Goodwill of 784 million 31 March 2008 431 million was allocated to this business at 31 March 2009.
A discounted cash flow analysis was performed using a five year business projection which was extended using a terminal value growth rate of 1% and a pre-tax discount rate of 10%.
This analysis indicated that the carrying value of the goodwill was supported and no impairment charge was required.
The key assumptions on which the projected cash flows are based relate to revenue growth and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
These assumptions have been determined using a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and in-house estimates.
The goodwills value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure increased by more than 50 million per year: or the discount rate increased by more than 6 percentage points.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill of 121 million was allocated to Monaco Telecom at 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 108 million.
Three relevant cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecoms network assets domestic including the cable television business, international business and other services.
Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units based on the proportionate fair value of net assets at the time of acquisition.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit separately by discounting future cash flows based on the businesses projections extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 5% at pre-tax discount rates of between 8% and 18% dependent on the risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive concession in Monaco and managements forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
The goodwills value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure increased by more than 14 million per year: or the discount rate increased by more than 9 percentage points.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles Year ended 31 March 2009 There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired.
Year ended 31 March 2008 There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired, except as noted below: Cable & Wireless Jamaica A review of the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd, a subsidiary of the Group, was conducted at year end in the light of the poor trading performance during the year.
The value in use was determined for each of the four cash generating units of the business mobile, fixed, data and internet by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the companys five year forecast at a US dollar equivalent pre-tax discount rate of 11.7%.
Revenue was adjusted by a terminal growth rate of 0% to 2% depending on the cash generating unit.
Maintenance capital expenditure was assumed at an average of 5% of revenue in perpetuity and operating costs were estimated to remain at broadly the same level throughout the projection before inflation.
These assumptions reflected the introduction of competition in the local market.
As a result of the review, an impairment charge of 37 million was recognised in Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd and recorded in the Groups income statement for 2007 08.
91 18 Intangible assets Customer Licences and contracts and Goodwill Software concessions relationships Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2007 523 678 74 132 33 1,440 Business combinations 19 19 Additions 5115 268 Disposals 1 1 Transfers between categories 4 4 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 7 7 Exchange differences 7 2 9 5 19 At 31 March 2008 549 729 102 132 40 1,552 Business combinations 353 1 15 5 374 Additions 331 2 36 Disposals 5 1 6 Exchange differences 13 14 23 1 9 58 At 31 March 2009 915 771 127 146 55 2,014 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2007 640 11 17 27 695 Charge for the year 24 513 547 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 1 2 1 2 4 At 31 March 2008 662 18 31 34 745 Charge for the year 34 715 763 Disposals 5 1 6 Exchange differences 114 6 21 At 31 March 2009 702 29 46 46 823 Net book value At 31 March 2009 915 69 98 100 9 1,191 At 31 March 2008 5496784 101 6 807 Goodwill balances can be summarised as follows: Foreign Foreign At 1 April exchange At 31 March exchange At 31 March Reporting 2007 Additions movements 2008 Additions movements 2009 segment m m m m m m m Energis Worldwide 421 10 431 431 Thus see note 39 Worldwide 341 341 Apollo see note 39 Worldwide 9 3 12 Monaco Telecom CWI 102 1 7 108 4 9 121 Connecteo see note 39 CWI 10 10 1 1 10 Total 523 19 7 549 353 13 915 Monaco Telecom Goodwill in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by 13 million during the year 2007 08 6 million increase.
The goodwill balance increased as a result of the payment of dividends to the minority interest, exchange movements and changes in the fair value of the put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued see note 28.
Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill.
During the year, this change in the fair value of the put option resulted in a 7 million reduction in goodwill 2007 08 12 million reduction.
A cash dividend of 11 million 2007 08 11 million was paid to the Principality of Monaco during the year.
This dividend reflected an increase in the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill.
The goodwill balance was also increased by 9 million as a result of exchange movements during the year 2007 08 7 million increase.
Financial statements Group 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 18 Intangible assets continued Energis contingent consideration As part of the Energis acquisition on 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of 80 million.
The amount of contingent consideration was linked to the Companys share price and was to be satisfied, at the Groups option, in either cash or shares of the Company.
Payments were based on a ratio of 1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three-month volume weighted average Cable and Wireless plc share price exceeded the reference price of 135 pence.
Any payments were to begin in March 2008 and were payable monthly until December 2008.
Any payments were based upon Cable & Wireless volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date.
In 2008 09, no additional goodwill was recognised in connection with the contingent consideration since the payment criteria were not met.
In 2007 08, an additional 10 million of goodwill was recognised due to contingent consideration.
In March 2008, the Group paid 49 million satisfying the contingent consideration under this agreement which has now expired.
19 Property, plant and equipment 2008 09 2007 08 Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 505 6,834 145 7,484 461 6,583 204 7,248 Additions 1 80 340 421 2 26 309 337 Movements in asset retirement obligations 65 11 6 6 Business combinations 11 193 204 2 2 Disposals 33 302 3 338 3 93 1 97 Transfers between categories 19 305 324 42 316 358 Transfer to intangibles 7 7 Exchange differences 71 713 27 811 3 2 5 At 31 March 580 7,828 185 8,593 505 6,834 145 7,484 Depreciation At 1 April 339 5,657 5,996 315 5,468 5,783 Charge for the year 27 289 316 11 241 252 Impairment 37 37 Disposals 32 300 332 2 90 92 Transfers between categories 11 11 Exchange differences 42 518 560 412 16 At 31 March 376 6,164 6,540 339 5,657 5,996 Net book value at 31 March 204 1,664 185 2,053 166 1,177 145 1,488 Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2009 is 25 million 2007 08 14 million of assets held under finance leases.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of 2 million 2007 08 2 million and 72 million 2007 08 49 million respectively.
93 20 Investments in joint ventures 2008 09 2007 08 m m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 63 63 Share of post-acquisition reserves 125 100 188 163 Share of post-tax profit 32 37 Dividends 17 15 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 8 Exchange differences 58 3 At 31 March 269 188 Impairment allowance At 1 April 46 46 Impairment charge 1 Impairment allowance release 2 1 At 31 March 44 46 Net carrying amount at 31 March 225 142 The Groups total interest in its joint ventures is presented below: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Non-current assets 222 237 Current assets 145 107 Current liabilities 96 89 Non-current liabilities 46 113 Share of net assets 225 142 2008 09 2007 08 m m Revenue 232 190 Operating costs 191 148 Operating profit 41 42 Net interest financing costs 1 Share of profit before tax 41 41 Taxation charge 7 4 Dividends paid to Group companies 17 15 Share of retained profit 17 22 Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the investment together with the Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances.
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures.
The Groups joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2009 2007 08 none.
On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited which was previously accounted for as a joint venture see note 39.
Financial statements Group 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 21 Available-for-sale financial assets 2008 09 2007 08 m m At 1 April 27 15 Business combinations 10 Additions 1 10 Fair value gain recorded in equity 2 At 31 March 38 27 At 31 March 2009 available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprise UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral 2007 08 UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral.
These assets are measured at fair value based on observable market data.
22 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Gross trade receivables 697 639 Valuation allowance 69 72 Net trade receivables 628 567 Other receivables 70 87 Prepayments and accrued income 262 193 Taxation and social security receivables 10 6 Amounts receivable from joint ventures 3 3 Trade and other receivables current 973 856 Other receivables 30 33 Prepayments and accrued income 22 27 Trade and other receivables non-current 52 60 Total trade and other receivables 1,025 916 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables at 31 March 2009.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecoms operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
There has been an economic downturn in markets in which the Group operates.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management have assessed this risk and, after providing additional valuation allowance where necessary, continue to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current net trade and other receivables that are not impaired is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Not yet due 336 312 Overdue 30 days or less 117 101 Overdue 31 to 60 days 41 40 Overdue 61 to 90 days 29 41 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 58 43 Overdue 181 days or more 117 117 Current net trade and other receivables 698 654 95 Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
Included within receivables are amounts relating to interconnection with other carriers of 256 million 2007 08 244 million.
There are no amounts held as collateral for trade and other receivables balances.
An analysis of the trade receivables valuation allowance for the period is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m At 1 April 72 98 Bad debts written off 29 36 Increase in allowance 17 6 Exchange differences 9 4 At 31 March 69 72 All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services.
There were no material transactions with joint ventures during the year.
23 Inventories Inventories represent equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale.
Inventories of 23 million 2007 08 17 million are presented net of an allowance of 5 million 2007 08 2 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2008 09 was 86 million 2007 08 79 million.
During the year, the Group recorded no additional inventory valuation allowances 2007 08 nil.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
24 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 177 106 Short-term bank deposits 368 593 Cash and cash equivalents 545 699 Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank, bank deposits and money market funds.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2009 was 0.45% 31 March 2008 5.1%.
At 31 March 2009 these deposits had an average maturity of 5 days 31 March 2008 42 days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
25 Non-current assets held for sale As at 31 March 2009, bonds of 1 million 2007 08 5 million were classified as non-current assets held for sale.
During the period, the 5 million bonds held at 31 March 2008 were impaired, resulting in a 4 million finance expense and reduction in their carrying value to 1 million.
Financial statements Group 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 26 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 550 441 Other taxation and social security costs 51 57 Accruals 517 463 Deferred income 324 193 Other payables 67 65 Trade and other payables current 1,509 1,219 Accruals 10 40 Other creditors 1 Trade and other payables non-current 11 40 Total trade and other payables 1,520 1,259 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
27 Loans and obligations under finance leases 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Loans Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 342 308 Sterling secured loans repayable in 2012 124 US$415 million secured loan repayable in 2010 $50 million and 2011 $365 million 283 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2013 114 81 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 37 48 900 437 Loans current 80 45 Loans non-current 820 392 Finance leases Obligations under finance leases 22 19 Obligations under finance leases current 10 14 Obligations under finance leases non-current 12 5 Loans and obligations under finance leases current 90 59 Loans and obligations under finance leases non-current 832 397 At 31 March 2009, the following Group borrowings were secured: a The Sterling 200 million loan facility repayable in 2012 of which 99 million was drawn down at 31 March 2009 is secured by way of guarantee from Cable and Wireless plc and security over Worldwide assets: b The $415 million US dollar loan repayable in 2011 is secured over CWIs holdings in Panama and Caribbean subsidiaries: c 29 million of the Groups Sterling secured loans is secured on the Group owned 2019 bonds: and d 21 million of the other currency loans are secured over some of CWIs operating subsidiaries assets.
The Sterling bonds have a fair value of 319 million at 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 304 million.
This value has been determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
For all other financial liabilities the carrying amount approximates to fair value.
97 The repayment profile of loans including interest payable at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Loans Due in less than one year 134 82 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 108 55 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 688 296 Due in more than five years 214 235 Total loans 1,144 668 Less future finance charges on loans 244 231 Total loans 900 437 The repayment profile of obligations under finance leases is as follows: Net finance lease Minimum finance liabilities lease payments 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Due in less than one year 10 14 11 15 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 7 3 7 3 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 3 2 3 2 Due in more than five years 2 2 Total 22 19 23 20 Less future finance charges on finance leases 1 1 Present value of finance lease liabilities 22 19 Interest is payable on loans and obligations under finance leases falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.00% and 10.03%.
During the period, the Group arranged: a A three year secured bank facility of US$415 million, repayable in 2010 $50 million and 2011 $365 million, which was drawn down in full: b A three year secured bank facility of 200 million, repayable in 2012, of which 99 million has been drawn down: and c A 29 million loan facility secured by the 2019 bonds held by the Group.
This loan is repayable in February 2012.
The agreements for the US$415 million and 200 million facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these type of arrangements.
In addition, the Group has the following significant borrowings: a 200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2009, net of costs, of 195 million 2007 08 161 million.
Interest is payable at 8.750% per annum.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, bonds with a par value, net of costs, of 36 million were re-issued by Cable and Wireless plc for 34 million net proceeds.
b 200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2009, net of costs, of 147 million 2007 08 147 million.
Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group repurchased but did not cancel 32 million of this bond at an average price of 102.1 pence.
c 116 million 2007 08 81 million of loans in or linked to the US dollar are held by various subsidiaries across the Group, with the majority in Panama.
The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
Financial statements Group 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 27 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued The weighted average effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Interest Interest Currency rate Currency rate % % Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 and Sterling secured facilities GBP 7.7 GBP 8.7 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans and facilities repayable at various dates up to 2013 USD 3.4 USD 4.6 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 Other 7.9 Other 12.0 Obligations under finance leases GBP 8.3 GBP 8.4 Convertible unsecured bond On 16 July 2003, 257, 714,000 of 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par.
Each bond entitled the holder to convert the amount of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for each 1,000 held at an initial conversion price of 145 pence per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010.
Full conversion of the bonds would have resulted in an additional 177, 733,748 shares being issued.
During 2007 08, all of the convertible bonds in issue at 31 March 2007 carrying value of 213 million were either repurchased or converted.
Convertible bonds with a par value of 138 million were repurchased for cash of 190 million.
At the time of repurchase, the debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of 117 million.
The fair value of the debt component of these bonds at the date of repurchase was 127 million.
This transaction resulted in an exceptional finance expense of 10 million see note 12.
The difference between the fair value of the debt component and the cash consideration 63 million was allocated to the repurchase of the equity component of the convertible bond.
The remaining convertible bonds, with a par value of 120 million, were converted into 83 million ordinary shares including 29 million treasury shares.
The debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of 103 million.
In April 2005, a cash settlement feature within the convertible bonds was removed.
The liability relating to this cash settlement feature was reclassified to equity at its fair value at that time 47 million.
As a result of extinguishing the convertible bonds, this amount was reclassified to retained earnings.
The movements on the convertible bonds in the prior period were as follows: m Liability component at 1 April 2007 213 Interest expense 7 Liability component of convertible bonds repurchased or converted 220 Liability component at 31 March 2008 Interest expense on the bond was calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate 10.7% for an equivalent nonconvertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond.
28 Financial liabilities at fair value At 31 March 2009 At 31 March 2008 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total m m m m m m Forward exchange contracts 25 25 Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 139 139 59 73 132 Other put option 11 Total financial liabilities at fair value 25 140 165 59 73 132 99 Forward exchange contracts At 31 March 2009 the Group had forward exchange contracts to sell US$225 million 155 million, in order to lock in the Sterling proceeds of forecast US dollar repatriation 2007 08 US$50 million 25 million hedging US dollar exposures.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through the income statement.
A US$0.10 movement in the US$ exchange rate would have an impact of approximately 11 million on the income statement and balance sheet as a result of changes in the fair value of these contracts.
Monaco Telecom put option A put option is held by the minority shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco the Principality.
This put option is measured at fair value using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data.
The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom.
This market value has been determined by taking an average of published broker valuations for the business and attributing 45% of that value to the put option.
The brokers have valued the business using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and EBITDA multiples factoring in the expected growth and risk of the business.
A 10 million movement in the value of the put would have a 1 million impact on the income statement.
The Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, however, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Groups control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill refer to note 18.
The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches.
The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group from six months prior to 18 June 2011, 2014 and 2017.
The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group three years after the first tranche has been exercised.
During the period, the value of the put option increased by 14 million due to discount unwinding see note 12.
This increase was offset by a 7 million reduction as a result of fair value and foreign exchange movements.
This reduction was recognised against goodwill see note 18.
29 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Balance non-current sheet assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 34 12 3 21 28 Deferred tax liabilities 54 18 8 21 59 At 1 April 2007 20 12 18 5 31 Profit and loss credit 2931 15 Tax charged to equity 11 11 Exchange differences 3 1 1 1 At 31 March 2008 15 20 4 5 4 Deferred tax assets 30 20 1 1 26 26 Deferred tax liabilities 45 5 6 26 30 At 31 March 2008 15 20 4 5 4 Profit and loss credit 21 10 2 33 Tax charged to equity 1 1 Exchange differences 5 3 1 1 At 31 March 2009 1 33 4 3 27 Deferred tax assets 63 33 5 4 41 64 Deferred tax liabilities 62 9 7 41 37 At 31 March 2009 1 33 4 3 27 Financial statements Group 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 29 Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m As at 31 March 2008 3,721 14,697 22 118 18,558 As at 31 March 2009 3,928 21,035 63 156 25,182 Tax losses expire as follows: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Within 1 year 13 11 Within 3 years 13 22 Within 5 years 19 5 Within 10 years 81 70 After more than 10 years 48 40 Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The 21,035 million 2007 08 14,697 million tax losses include UK capital losses of 8,027 million 2007 08 2,635 million.
Other losses principally arise in overseas holding companies and the opportunity to realise benefits from them is considered remote.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 695 million 2007 08 475 million.
These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
30 Provisions 2008 09 2007 08 Network Network and asset and asset Redundancy retirement Legal and Redundancy retirement Legal and Property costs obligations other Total Property costs obligations other Total m m m m m m m m m m At 1 April 69 12 81 65 227 82 7 77 60 226 Additions from businesses acquired 1 34 1 36 Additional provision 40 61 28 39 168 10 35 10 33 88 Amounts used 19 50 11 42 122 19 28 13 15 75 Unused amounts reversed 17 2 9 15 43 6 2 14 22 Effect of discounting 3 7 10 2 6 8 Exchange differences 2 3 2 11 18 112 At 31 March 79 24 132 59 294 69 12 81 65 227 Provisions Current 20 24 14 50 108 17 12 14 49 92 Provisions Non-current 59 118 9 186 52 6716 135 Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Property provisions released included 14 million 2007 08 4 million relating to Worldwide following the reassessment of its onerous rental leases and dilapidations provisions see note 6 and 3 million 2007 08 2 million in respect of the Groups former US operations see note 14.
101 Redundancy Provision has been made for the employee related costs of redundancies announced or for which Cable & Wireless is demonstrably committed prior to the reporting date.
Amounts provided for and spent in the year primarily relate to the restructuring in Worldwide and CWI.
Redundancy cost provisions released in 2008 09 relate to Worldwide see note 6.
In 2007 08, redundancy cost provisions released related to CWI 1 million and Worldwide 1 million see note 6.
Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and subsea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Amounts utilised in the year related predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Network and asset retirement obligations provision releases in 2008 09 relate to the reassessment of amounts in respect of exiting network sites and onerous network contracts in Worldwide 6 million and CWI 3 million see note 6.
Other Other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group and amounts relating to specific claims held against the Groups former insurance operation, Pender, and other restructuring costs.
Other provisions released in 2008 09 include an amount of 7 million in Central in relation to disposals made in previous years see note 14, and 2 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender see note 11.
In addition, provisions of 6 million were released in CWI following the resolution of claims and other risks.
In 2007 08, other provisions released included an amount of 6 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender see note 11, and 3 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions relating to disposals made in previous years see note 14.
In addition, provisions of 4 million and 1 million were released in CWI and Worldwide respectively following resolution of claims.
31 Retirement benefits obligations The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the Group.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
The main UK defined benefit scheme was closed to new members in 1998.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes of the Group was 18 million 2007 08 15 million, of which 11 million 2007 08 12 million was for the main UK scheme.
Defined benefit schemes Main UK scheme funding valuation The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2007.
The projected unit credit method was used and the principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 3.1% and that future increases in pensionable earnings would be 4.1% per annum: investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.2% annual rate of return: investments held in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 4.9% annual rate of return: and pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3.0% for fixed guarantee pensions and 3.1% for inflation related pensions.
As at 31 March 2007, the value of the assets represented approximately 99% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2007 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the Funds pensioners and dependents over the five years ended 31 March 2007.
In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
Financial statements Group 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 31 Retirement benefits obligations continued Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows: On 31 On 31 On 31 March March March 2009 2019 2029 years years years Male 27.7 29.1 30.6 Female 29.0 30.5 32.0 The defined benefit actuarial funding deficit was 15 million at 31 March 2007 on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
On 28 March 2008, Cable & Wireless made a 19 million contribution to the scheme.
This was calculated on the basis of the 15 million deficit at 31 March 2007, together with the interest cost that accrued on this amount during the year and the back-dating of the increased employers contribution rate to the valuation date.
As a result of the 19 million contribution, the scheme was fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2007 valuation.
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 33.2% of pensionable earnings 28.5% employers and 4.7% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next scheduled triennial independent actuarial valuation is carried out, as at 31 March 2010.
The terms of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund Trust Deed also allow the Trustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The future service contribution rate includes an allowance of 3% for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
Cable & Wireless therefore paid a total contribution rate of 29.4% in 2008 09, or 10.6 million 2007 08 29.3% or 11.8 million.
The Group has agreed to provide certain financial information on a semi-annual basis to allow the Trustees to monitor the Groups financial performance.
If the Groups projected EBITDA and the cash and committed facilities net of any prior ranking creditors available to the Group fall below agreed levels the Group will provide security to the Trustees in the form of an escrow arrangement or bank letter of credit for an amount equal to the shortfall against the agreed level of cash and committed facilities net of any prior ranking creditors.
During the year, the Pension Trustees of the main UK defined benefit scheme agreed a buy-in of the UK pensioner element of the scheme with Prudential Insurance.
The buy-in involved the purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the scheme under which Prudential Insurance assumed responsibility for the benefits payable to the schemes UK pensioners with effect from 1 August 2008.
The pensioner liabilities and the matching annuity policy remain within the scheme.
The premium for the annuity policy was approximately 1 billion which the scheme settled with a combination of cash and assets including an additional Group contribution of 10 million.
Main UK scheme and other schemes IAS 19 valuation The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2009 by qualified independent actuaries.
Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the main UK scheme, the Thus scheme acquired during the year and unfunded schemes, and reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all other schemes.
Other schemes include unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap and the Thus scheme.
Also included are the Groups overseas schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey, Hong Kong and Ireland.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows: 2008 09 2007 08 Main UK Other Main UK Other scheme schemes scheme schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption m % m % m % m % Inflation assumption 3.0 4.3 3.5 4.9 Salary increases 3.5 5.5 4.0 6.5 Pension increases 2.2-3.0 4.5 2.3-3.4 4.9 Discount rate 6.7 7.9 6.8 8.3 Medical cost trends for post-retirement medical plans 9.7 9.8 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Annuity policies 825 6.7 44 8.0 Equities 519 8.0 100 8.1 944 8.0 88 8.1 Bonds and gilts 51 5.6 96 5.6 500 5.2 73 5.1 Property 76 6.5 38 8.5 125 7.0 45 8.4 Cash and swaps 190 3.3 546 4.4 21 4.3 1,661 278 2,115 227 103 Assumptions used by the actuary are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the main UK scheme liabilities by approximately 34 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is 21 million.
A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around 82 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is 26 million.
A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by around 4 million.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The main UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants.
Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost will increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
During the period, the defined benefit and retirement medical plans of Cable & Wireless Jamaica were restructured in order to reduce financial risk materially.
The restructure involved the purchase of annuities for all of the defined benefit obligations, a change in member benefits and the transfer of all of the retirement medical plan obligations to a third party insurer.
The restructure resulted in a curtailment gain of 10 million.
The transfer of the retirement medical plan obligations resulted in a settlement loss of 3 million.
The curtailment gain and settlement loss have been recorded as a net exceptional gain of 7 million.
There was also an exceptional curtailment gain in Barbados note 6. of 1 million in the period.
Refer to The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group are presented below: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Main UK Other Main UK Other Main UK Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m m m m Total fair value of plan assets 1,661 278 1,939 2,115 227 2,342 2,079 210 2,289 Present value of funded obligations 1,693 271 1,964 1,740 175 1,915 2,036 162 2,198 Excess of liabilities assets of funded obligations 32 7 25 375 52 427 43 48 91 Present value of unfunded obligations 24 24 36 36 40 40 Effect of asset ceiling 9 9 375 30 405 23 23 Net deficit surplus 32 26 58 14 14 43 15 28 Liabilities Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 32 48 80 30 30 33 33 Post-retirement medical plans unfunded 5 5 16 16 14 14 Total 32 53 85 46 46 47 47 Assets Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 2727 3232433275 Actuarial gains losses on plan liabilities 97 13 110 346 2 344 77 3 80 Actuarial losses gains on plan assets 538 46 584 63 1 62 32 5 37 Included within these liabilities is an amount of 13 million 2007 08 13 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
The effect of these adjustments described as asset ceiling adjustments was 9 million as at 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 405 million.
Financial statements Group 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 31 Retirement benefits obligations continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Main UK Main UK scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Current service cost 8 5 13 10 6 16 Interest cost 116 20 136 106 15 121 Expected return on plan assets 136 27 163 135 20 155 Gains on curtailment or settlement 224 235 Total net credit 14 4 18 21 2 23 The defined benefit credit has been included in employee benefit expenses note 9.
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of 421 million 2007 08 gain of 93 million.
The two main factors in this experience loss arose from the difference between the purchase cost of the annuity for the main UK scheme and the IAS 19 value of the liabilities covered by the policy at the valuation date and a reduction in asset values in the period due to adverse financial market conditions.
Net actuarial losses amounting to 474 million 2007 08 gains of 282 million have been recognised directly in equity and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
In 2008 09, a gain of 396 million 2007 08 loss of 382 million was recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses due to the change in asset ceilings.
This was further increased by a 2 million exchange gain on the Jamaica defined benefit pension asset ceiling amount 2007 08 nil.
The total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2009 is a loss of 76 million 2007 08 loss of 100 million and loss of 4 million 2007 08 gain of 72 million respectively.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations are as follows: 2008 09 2007 08 Main UK Main UK scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Obligation at 1 April 1,740 211 1,951 2,036 202 2,238 Service cost 8 5 13 10 6 16 Interest cost 116 20 136 106 15 121 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 97 13 110 346 2 344 Employee contributions 2 3 5 2 2 4 Obligations extinguished 2020 Obligations acquired 62 62 Settlements 10 10 Curtailments 21214 235 Benefits paid 74 9 83 66 10 76 Exchange differences on foreign plans 38 38 33 Obligation at 31 March 1,693 295 1,988 1,740 211 1,951 105 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: 2008 09 2007 08 Main UK Main UK scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Fair value of assets as at 1 April 2,115 227 2,342 2,079 210 2,289 Expected return 136 27 163 135 20 155 Actuarial losses gains recognised in equity 538 46 584 63 1 62 Contributions by employer 20 8 28 28 7 35 Employee contributions 235 224 Assets divested 32 32 Assets acquired 6363 Benefits paid 74 9 83 66 10 76 Exchange differences on foreign plans 3737 3 3 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 1,661 278 1,939 2,115 227 2,342 Experience gains for the period are as follows: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Main UK Main UK Main UK scheme Other scheme Other scheme Other m m m m m m Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations 1,693 295 1,740 211 2,036 202 Plan assets 1,661 278 2,115 227 2,079 210 Deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 32 17 3751643 8 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 20 1 14 8 7 5 Experience losses gains on plan assets 538 46 63 1 32 5 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Main UK Main UK scheme Other scheme Other m m m m Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations 2,067 238 1,787 206 Plan assets 1,978 236 1,611 215 Deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 89 2 176 9 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 15 14 36 9 Experience gains on plan assets 206 43 15 The best estimate of contributions for 2009 10 is: Main UK scheme Other Total m m m Employer contributions 10 14 24 Employee contributions 235 Based on an employer contribution rate of 28.5% of pensionable salaries plus the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ending 31 March 2010.
The pension disclosures above include two post-retirement medical plans in Barbados.
A change in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs and would change the accumulated defined benefit obligation by 1 million.
Financial statements Group 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 32 Share capital 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Authorised 875 875 2008 09 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2007 08 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each Issued, called-up and fully paid 643 634 2008 09 2,571,465,533 ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2007 08 2,536,623,051 ordinary shares of 25 pence each Number of shares m Issued, called-up and fully paid At 1 April 2007 2,460,483,642 615 Allotted under share options schemes 10,439,382 3 Allotted under scrip dividends 12,343,480 3 Allotted under convertible bonds 53,356,547 13 At 31 March 2008 2,536,623,051 634 Allotted under share options schemes 4,186,233 1 Allotted under scrip dividends 30,656,249 8 At 31 March 2009 2,571,465,533 643 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was 9 million 2007 08 19 million.
The Company did not repurchase any shares in 2008 09 or 2007 08.
No treasury shares were cancelled during the year ended 31 March 2009.
12 million treasury shares were transferred to the ESOP trust on 13 February 2009.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2009 excluding those held by the ESOP trust was 8 million 2007 08 11 million and 46 million 2007 08 68 million respectively.
The ESOP Trust has waived its right to dividends.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable and Wireless plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those imposed by law.
For further information refer to pages 48 to 49 of the Directors report.
Allotments of ordinary shares of 25 pence each were made during the year in respect of the following: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Gross Gross Number of consideration Number of consideration allotted shares received allotted shares received Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,730,501 1,252,134 5,085,150 2,506,801 Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,274,225 772,580 1,461,876 1,066,300 Share Option Plan Approved 50,847 55,999 166,781 194,162 Share Option Plan Unapproved 1,130,660 1,212,829 3,725,575 3,998,381 1 Scrip dividends 30,656,249 12,343,480 2 Convertible bonds 53,356,547 Total 34,842,482 3,293,542 76,139,409 7,765,644 1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of 47 million 2007 08 23 million were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip.
2 Shares with a cash equivalent value of 106 million were issued during 2007 08 as part of the conversion of bonds.
The Group defines capital as share capital, share premium, special reserve, other reserves including capital reserve, minority interest transaction reserve, fair value reserve, foreign currency translation reserve and hedging reserve, minority interest and retained earnings.
It does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by company law.
107 The Group manages its balance sheet in such a way as to optimise the weighted average cost of debt and equity taking into account: a the liquidity required in the light of the projected funding requirements of the Groups operating businesses with an appropriate level of contingency: b the level of financial strength required to maintain the Groups terms of trade taking account of its operational cash generation: c the relative post-tax cost of debt and equity: and d the extent to which external debt finance is, or is likely to be, available to the Group on acceptable terms.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and longer term forecasting process.
33 Share premium and other reserves Foreign currency translation Fair Capital and Share Special and hedging value other Retained premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings Total m m m m m m m At 31 March 2007 56 1,672 130 3 152 687 1,066 Cash received in respect of employee share schemes 6 6 Own shares purchased 2 2 Fair value gain on available-for-sale assets 2 2 Acquisition of minority interest 4 4 Tax on items in equity 11 11 Profit for the year 164 164 Net actuarial losses recognised net of deferred taxation 98 98 Foreign currency translation reserve 2 2 Share-based payment costs 16 16 Conversion of convertible bonds 75 88 124 111 Repurchase and conversion of convertible bonds 47 38 85 Dividends 161 161 Shares allotted under share option schemes 5 8 8 5 Shares allotted under scrip dividend scheme 20 23 23 20 At 31 March 2008 156 1,553 128 5 101 634 1,053 Cash received in respect of employee share schemes 2 2 Own shares purchased 2 2 Acquisition of minority interest 1 1 Profit for the year 143 143 Net actuarial losses recognised net of deferred taxation 75 75 Foreign currency translation reserve 204 204 Share-based payment costs 12 12 Dividends 194 194 Shares allotted under share option schemes 2 3 3 2 Shares allotted under scrip dividend scheme 39 47 47 39 At 31 March 2009 197 1,503 76 5 102 698 1,185 Special reserve The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account at February 2004 which was approved by the Company at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004.
It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Financial statements Group 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 33 Share premium and other reserves continued Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the presentation currency of the Group.
It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging instruments.
Other reserves In 2008 09, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of 105 million 2007 08 105 million and a reserve relating to transactions with minority interests of 3 million 2007 08 4 million.
34 Share-based payments Share option schemes The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2009 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows: Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme SAYE scheme, UK employees were invited to enter a savings contract with a bank to save regular monthly sums of between 5 and 250 for a period of either three, five or seven years.
At the end of the savings contract, the participant receives interest from the bank on their savings.
The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over ordinary shares of the Company, which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at the date of grant.
The Company extended the SAYE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme GSAYE scheme.
The GSAYE scheme was last offered in December 2004.
In various of the Groups territories excluding the UK it operated along similar lines to the SAYE scheme with local variations to accommodate local legal and tax considerations.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme SESOS and the Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme RESOS.
Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and July 2001 are subject to performance conditions based on the TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc relative to the FTSE 100 Index, underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and revenue.
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three month period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility.
For full vesting, the TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile.
If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
As at the date of this report, none of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in the Companys published earnings per share excluding exceptional items measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year in which the option was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three year period.
All such options became exercisable in full.
No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan approved and unapproved The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance conditions.
For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial award vests.
A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median.
If performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the option lapses.
For options granted from May 2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from that date will cease.
If performance conditions for these options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses.
For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group warrants the release of the shares.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of such awards.
In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on each subsequent anniversary.
These terms reflect normal practice in the US.
109 The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust The Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
The costs of running the Trust are included in the income statement as they accrue.
The Trustees of the plan may notionally allocate ordinary shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff.
Shares are held in trust until such time as they may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the performance share plan, the restricted share plan, the deferred short-term incentive plan details of which are given below and the share option plan.
The shares will be provided from existing ordinary shares in issue acquired by the Trustees.
Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards.
The Trust has waived its rights to dividends.
At 31 March 2009, there were 1,594,367 shares under contingent awards in relation to the performance share plan, 22,506,754 shares under restricted share awards in relation to the restricted share plan, 118,614 shares under the stock appreciation rights plan, and 6,279,112 shares under options in relation to the share option plan.
Other equity instrument awards Deferred short-term incentive plan Deferred STIP The deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company, which are held in trust for three years before being released to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of the Company measured over a three year period see performance conditions for share-based awards on page 53.
A dividend award supplement also operates on the deferred STIP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005 06 financial year, Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives could elect to pay up to one third of any net bonus into the deferred STIP.
Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis, i. e. for every 100 of net bonus invested in the deferred STIP, participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on grant of 333.
No award has been made under the deferred STIP since 30 September 2005.
Deferred bonus scheme Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior management bonus to purchase shares in the Company, which will be held in trust.
Half of the purchased shares will be held in trust for a two year deferral period and the remaining half will be held in trust for a three year deferral period.
Participants will be awarded matching shares when the purchased shares vest at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan PSP Under the PSP, Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based awards on page 53.
A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan RSP The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to Executive Directors and selected employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares awarded under this plan vest over periods of one to three years.
Restricted shares are also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds into Company shares.
Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive Director continuing to hold the invested shares and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions if applicable.
100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
Performance conditions for share-based awards TSR is the main performance measure used in share plans where performance conditions apply as it provides an objective external measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the Company at the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of companies.
The Companys relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparative group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index FTSE GTSI, which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Companys TSR ranking relative to the comparative group at the end of a single three year performance period.
Financial statements Group 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 34 Share-based payments continued Cash-based awards Stock appreciation rights plan SARs The SARs plan is used to replicate exactly the plans described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Other schemes Cable & Wireless share purchase plan SPP The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the Cable & Wireless share purchase plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan.
Under the SPP, employees can contribute up to a value of 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer a match of one share for each partnership share purchased.
Shares are held in a UK resident trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and national insurance contributions payable in such events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years.
Dividends on the partnership and matching shares are reinvested in additional dividend shares.
High Performance Incentive Plan HPIP The HPIP provides for share awards at nil cost to senior managers in CWI.
It is a three year incentive plan and the scheme is worth up to 100% of a participants salary at the date they entered the plan.
The awards are based on performance in years one and two that then vest after years two and three respectively, with the financial year 2006 07 being year one.
The performance targets are based on EBITDA and cash flow.
On vesting the shares are worth the greater of the prevailing market value and the grant price.
A relatively small element of the HPIP is formed as a Phantom HPIP whereby the payments under the plan are made in cash rather than in shares.
Share options Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2009 resulted in 6 million shares 2007 08 14 million shares being issued at the average exercise price of 89 pence each 2007 08 84 pence each.
The related market weighted average share price at the time of the exercise was 158 pence per share 2007 08 169 pence per share.
Movements in the number of share options granted to employees of the Group and outstanding, together with their related weighted average exercise prices are shown below: 2008 09 2007 08 Average Average exercise exercise prices Options prices Options pence share 000 pence share 000 At 1 April 106 38,607 116 63,225 Forfeited 83 190 165 8,115 Exercised 89 6,157 84 14,305 Expired 131 426 321 2,198 At 31 March 110 31,834 106 38,607 Exercisable 119 17,871 104 12,042 111 Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number of exercise remaining life Number of exercise remaining life options price rounded to options price rounded to 1 1 Range of exercise prices pence outstanding pence share nearest year outstanding pence share nearest year 0 49 807,562 37 1 2,367,297 37 1 50 99 316,844 90 2 2,068,067 90 1 100 149 27,526,753 107 4 30,934,523 107 4 150 199 3,170,735 154 3 3,172,097 154 4 250 299 9,945 275 0 10,599 275 1 350 399 6,876 358 1 600 1,250 1,835 982 1 48,036 717 0 1 Weighted average remaining life relates to legal life of options not expected life.
There were no share options granted in 2008 09 2007 08 none.
The Group computed the fair value of share option awards using the Monte Carlo pricing model.
The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily share prices over a historical period equal to the expected lives of the options.
Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo simulations.
Other awards granted during 2008 09 2008 09 2007 08 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes TSR RSP 4,534,692 132 7,604,396 114 conditions HPIP 240,693 193 Cash Settled Phantom HPIP 538,465 148 SARs 5,030,930 136 368,667 182 SPP scheme matching shares 1,386,389 156 1,208,361 184 TSR PSP 1,187,295 71 conditions The PSP grants made during the period have performance criteria attached.
A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2009 for grants made during 2008 09 using the Monte Carlo method.
None of the restricted share plan grants made during the period had TSR conditions applicable 2007 08 5.5 million of 7.
In the SPP scheme, shares are bought each month by the Halifax Corporate Trust on behalf of the Company, to match the investment of the employees.
Matching shares are awarded to the employee after three years, or earlier if a good leaver.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the PSP grants in 2008 09 and the restricted share plan grants in 2007 08 were: 2008 09 2007 08 Weighted average share price pence per share 142 195 Dividend yield 5.5% 3.0% Expected volatility 31.0% 25.6% Risk-free interest rates 3.0% 5.1% Expected life in years 3 years 3 years No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was 13 million 2007 08 16 million.
Financial statements Group 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 35 Minority interests 2008 09 2007 08 m m Balance as at 1 April 192 209 Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 149 44 Dividends paid 123 58 Disposals 1 3 Balance as at 31 March 217 192 36 Cash flows from operating activities Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2008 09 2007 08 Note m m Continuing operations Profit for the year 216 220 Adjustments for: Tax expense 13 17 47 Depreciation 17,19 316 289 Amortisation 18 63 47 Gain on termination of operations 11 2 9 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 7 1 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 56 Finance income 12 29 53 Finance expense 12 131 85 Decrease in provisions 3 9 Employee benefits 2 5 Defined benefit pension scheme buy-in contribution 31 10 Defined benefit pension scheme top-up contribution 31 19 Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions 31 18 16 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 20 34 37 Operating cash flows before working capital changes 644 493 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries Increase decrease in inventories 6 6 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 85 5 Decrease increase in payables 54 5 Decrease in other assets 5 Cash generated from continuing operations 669 504 Discontinued operations Profit for the year 10 Adjustments for: Decreases in provisions and changes in working capital 10 Cash generated from discontinued operations Cash generated from operations 669 504 113 37 Reconciliation of net funds Net funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand, money market funds, short-term deposits, loans, bonds and finance lease obligations.
Debt is defined as loans, bonds and finance lease obligations.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows: 2008 09 2007 08 m m Decrease in cash during the year 195 348 Increase decrease in debt and lease financing 248 246 Cash outflow in net funds 443 102 Conversion of debt to equity 22 Finance leases entered into during the year 12 9 Net funds of businesses acquired 119 Exchange differences 46 5 Movement in net funds in the year 620 84 Net funds at 1 April 243 327 Net funds at 31 March 377 243 Analysis of changes in net funds: Finance leases entered At 31 March into during Exchange At 31 March 2008 Cash flow the year Acquisitions movements 2009 m m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 106 45 26 177 Short-term deposits 593 240 15 368 699 195 41 545 Debt due within one year 59 2 4 6 19 90 Debt due after one year 397 246 8 113 68 832 Total debt 456 248 12 119 87 922 Total net funds 243 443 12 119 46 377 Financial statements Group 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 38 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities Commitments The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of 114 million 2007 08 70 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
20 million 2007 08 13 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2009 is disclosed in note 6.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m No later than one year 139 114 Later than one year but not later than five years 295 134 Later than five years 243 200 Total minimum operating lease payments 677 448 Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 m m Trading guarantees 400 102 Other guarantees 97 57 Total guarantees 497 159 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters of credit.
Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Detail of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a portion of any future funding deficits.
Currently, the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
115 39 Business combinations and acquisitions of minority interests Thus On 1 October 2008, Cable & Wireless obtained control of Thus Group plc Thus for a total consideration of 343 million.
The consideration comprised 336 million to acquire the share capital of Thus and 7 million of direct costs.
The acquisition is summarised below: m Consideration paid 343 Goodwill arising on acquisition 341 Fair value of net assets acquired 2 Cash outflows on acquisition 343 Less: cash acquired 13 Net cash outflow on acquisition 330 From the date of its acquisition on 1 October 2008, Thus contributed 237 million to Group revenue and a loss of 17 million to Group profit.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2008 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 518 million and the contribution to Group profit would have been a loss of 34 million.
The Directors have made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities.
The fair values, which will be finalised in the year ending 31 March 2010, are as follows: Alignment of accounting Fair value Book value policy adjustments Fair value m m m m Property, plant and equipment 282 80 202 Purchased goodwill 50 50 Customer contracts and relationships 15 15 Trademarks and other intangibles 8 3 5 Trade and other receivables 130 5 29 106 Inventories 7 7 Deferred tax 56 56 Defined benefit pension scheme 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 13 13 Available-for-sale financial assets 10 10 Trade and other payables 111 64 28 203 Loans and other borrowings 113 113 Provisions 33 33 Total 336 152 182 2 The acquirees carrying amounts were previously recorded in accordance with IFRSs.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Thus includes the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing Worldwide business, and workforce valuations and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Apollo On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Cable Submarine Systems Limited Apollo which was previously accounted for as a joint venture.
Goodwill arising on this business combination amounted to 9 million.
The net liabilities acquired were 9 million.
In 2008 09, Apollo contributed 7 million to revenue and nil to profit.
On 13 November 2008 the Group increased its effective interest in Apollo from 55% to 60% for consideration of nil.
This transaction resulted in nil of minority interest transferred to retained earnings and a nil increase in other reserves.
Financial statements Group 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 39 Business combinations and acquisitions of minority interests continued Connecteo Group In January 2008, the Group purchased a 49% stake in the Connecteo Group and gained management control of the holding company for cash consideration of 7 million.
In January 2009, the Group paid 4 million for a further 16% interest in the Connecteo Group.
The Connecteo Group provides satellite, data and internet services in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea, Niger and Senegal.
On acquisition, the Directors performed a preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired as property, plant and equipment 2 million and net working capital liabilities 1 million.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities was allocated to goodwill.
In 2008 09, subsequent to this preliminary valuation of goodwill and intangibles, an exercise was conducted to identify and value any further intangibles at the date of acquisition.
This resulted in the recognition of an additional 1 million of licence intangible assets and a corresponding reduction in goodwill.
The contribution from Connecteo to revenues and profit from the date of acquisition to 31 March 2008 was less than 1 million and nil respectively.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2007 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 3 million and the contribution to profit would have been nil.
During 2008 09, the Connecteo Group increased its effective interest in its subsidiaries during the period.
This transaction resulted in a decrease of 1 million of minority interest and a 1 million increase in other reserves.
St Kitts On 21 September 2007, the Group purchased an additional 17% shareholding in Cable & Wireless St Kitts and Nevis Limited St Kitts for cash consideration of 7 million.
The shares were previously held by the Government of the Federation of St Kitts & Nevis the Federation.
As a result of the acquisition, the Groups effective interest in St Kitts was increased from 65% to 82%.
This transaction has resulted in a 3 million reduction in minority interests and a 4 million increase in other reserves during 2007 08.
As part of the purchase agreement with the Government, the Group offered 5% of the shares acquired to residents of the Federation which were subscribed in full, reducing the Groups effective interest to 77%.
40 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year.
The Group received dividends of 17 million from joint ventures 2007 08 15 million during the year ended 31 March 2009 note 20.
In 2008 09, joint ventures owed 3 million 2007 08 3 million in respect of trading balances.
see Transactions with key management personnel During the year, two Directors of Cable & Wireless purchased bonds issued by Cable & Wireless.
These bonds were purchased for 2,371,691 on the open market including 118,980 of accrued interest and had a nominal value of 2,630,000.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year was 60,732 of which 54,607 remained unpaid at year end.
During the year, the spouse of a Director of Cable & Wireless purchased bonds issued by Cable & Wireless.
These bonds were purchased for 437, 178 on the open market including 38,180 of accrued interest and had a nominal value of 480,000.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year was 3,743 of which 681 remained unpaid at year end.
There were no other material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration see notes 9 and 34, and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
117 41 Licences and concessions In a number of countries the Group holds licences or concessions to operate.
These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
Were renewal not to occur, in most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government at fair or net book value.
In a small number of locations, transfer is at a value below net book value.
In these places the Group monitors closely the likelihood of licence renewal to ensure that should a licence not be renewed, the business assets have been written down to their recoverable value at the point of transfer.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries during the year.
In December 2008, the licence held by the Groups joint venture in the Maldives was extended until 2023.
Further, the Group has agreed with the Government an extension to its concession agreement in Macau until 2021, subject to regulatory approval.
42 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
In July 2007, Cable & Wireless received a claim from a Caribbean competitor, Digicel, which the Group believes is without foundation and which is being vigorously defended.
The claim alleges that Cable & Wireless delayed Digicels entry into seven Caribbean markets by not providing interconnection between their networks and the Groups on a timely basis.
Based on legal advice, Cable & Wireless expects to defend this claim successfully.
43 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Issued share Ownership Local capital percentage Class of Country of Area of currency million % shares incorporation operation Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,466 100 Ordinary England UK Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA Balboa 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL Pataca 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd B$ 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd GBP 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean 3,4 Monaco Telecom SAM Euro 2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco Thus Group plc GBP 46 100 Ordinary Scotland Scotland Joint ventures 3 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd T$ 283 49 Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad and and Tobago Tobago 2 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Rufiya 190 45 Ordinary Maldives Maldives 1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via an agreement.
Cable and Wireless plc does not have any direct investment in the above subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Financial statements Group 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2009 43 Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
44 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Groups treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plcs Board of Directors.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Group Finance Director and the Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Central treasury function.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Central Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Central Treasury include funding, investment of cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally.
The Group uses derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by the Treasury Management Committee comprising the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance and other senior financial managers as required and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Exchange rate risk The Group trades in many countries and a large portion of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency receipts and payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Exchange risk is measured on the basis of forecast cash repatriation from foreign subsidiaries.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where possible, overseas subsidiaries are financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
During the year, the US dollar strengthened significantly, outside the Groups planning range and below its recent trading range.
As a result, the Group increased its forward cover compared with prior periods to lock in the Sterling proceeds from US dollar repatriation and the drawdown of a new $415 million bank facility.
As the US dollar continued to strengthen, this resulted in exceptional losses of 56 million note 12 as the contracts were exercised or marked to market at 31 March 2009.
At 31 March 2009 the Group had forward exchange see contracts to sell US$225 million 155 million 2007 08 US$50 million 25 million hedging US dollar exposures.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
In broad terms, based on the 2008 09 mix of profits, the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of Sterling would have been to increase operating profit before exceptional items by approximately 32 million and increase total equity by 124 million.
The Group had approximately 338 million of net financial liabilities denominated in US dollar or US dollar linked currencies at the end of the year.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
119 44 Financial risk management continued The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Financial Financial assets Borrowings assets Borrowings m m m m Sterling 453 466 474 308 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar 91 397 142 81 Euro 22 49 Other currencies 17 37 61 48 583 900 726 437 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset between the two.
The Central Treasury function may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2009.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a 5 million impact on the interest receivable by the Group on surplus cash balances and a 5 million impact on the interest payable on the floating rate borrowings of the Group.
45% of the Groups borrowings are at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate borrowings.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, the exposure to fair value loss has not been presented.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
Management seeks to reduce this risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are entities rated A-1 short-term and or AAlong-term by Standard & Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board.
These policies contain limits on exposure to any one counterparty.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 22.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk reflects the risk that the Group will have insufficient resources to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk with the use of robust forecasts to ensure that it has sufficient funds to meet all its potential liabilities as they fall due, including shareholder distributions.
These forecasts take account of reasonably possible downsides against expected outcomes so as to ensure adequate contingency levels are maintained.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure that covenant compliance targets and medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also continually assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
At 31 March 2009, Cable & Wireless had cash and cash equivalents of 545 million 2007 08 699 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are comprise the vast majority of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
An analysis of the maturity of our receivables and borrowings is contained in notes 22 and 27 respectively.
Approximately 53% of the Groups cash is held centrally and is invested predominantly in short-term bank deposits.
