The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details The Manager Allianz Global Investors is the marketing name of RCM UK Limited, Allianz Groups regulated UK fund management company, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Allianz Global Investors is one of the largest fund managers in the World, and as at 31 December 2008, had combined assets of 824 billion under management.
Through its predecessors, it has a heritage of investment trust management expertise in the UK stretching back to the nineteenth century and had 0.9 billion assets under management in a range of investment trusts as at 31 December 2008.
Results Half-year Report posted to shareholders in September Annual Financial Report posted to shareholders in April Annual General Meeting held in May Ordinary Dividends First quarterly paid in August Second quarterly paid in November Third quarterly paid in February Final usually paid in May Ordinary dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at a rate of 10%.
The credit discharges the tax liability of shareholders subject to income tax at less than the higher rate.
Shareholders liable to pay tax at the higher rate will have further tax to pay.
Preference Dividends Payable half-yearly on 1 August and 1 February Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank Accounts Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to first-named shareholders at their registered address together with a tax voucher.
Dividends may be paid directly into shareholders bank accounts.
Details of how this may be arranged can be obtained from the Registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Dividends mandated in this way are paid via BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Tax vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders at their registered address unless other instructions have been given.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan for Ordinary Shareholders A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is operated by the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars.
The Plan offers Ordinary Shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy further shares in the Company under a special low-cost dealing arrangement.
Capita will enclose a copy of the Terms and Conditions and a personalised application form with each future dividend payment.
Market and Portfolio Information The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The market price, price range, gross yield and net asset value are shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares is calculated daily and published through the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
The geographical spread of investments and ten largest holdings are also published monthly by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
They are also available to any enquirer of Allianz Global Investors, either via Investor Services on 0800 317 573 or on the Managers website: www.
Share Prices The share price for 31 January 2009 was 282.0p.
Website Further information about the The Merchants Trust PLC is available on the Managers website: www.
51 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details Association of Investment Companies AIC The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade body of the investment trust industry, which provides a range of literature including fact sheets and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of these publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at www.
AIC Category: UK Growth and Income.
Investing in the Company Former Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust ISA, PEP and Share Plan wrapper investors had the opportunity to transfer to Alliance Trust Savings Plan ATS in early 2008.
Information on investing in the shares of the Company is available from the Investment Managers Investor Helpline on 0800 317573 or from the Managers website: www.
com investmenttrusts, or from Alliance Trust Savings Customer Services Department on 01382 573737 or e-mail: contact@alliancetrust.
Capita Registrars Share Dealing Services Capita Registrars, the Companys Registrars, operate an on-line and telephone dealing facility for UK resident shareholders with share certificates.
Stamp duty may also be payable on purchases.
For further information on these services please contact: www.
com on-line dealing or 0871 664 0454 telephone dealing Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Capita Registrars offer shareholders a free on-line service called The Share Portal, enabling shareholders to access a comprehensive range of shareholder related information.
Through The Share Portal, shareholders can: view their current and historical shareholding details: obtain an indicative share price and valuation: amend address details: view details of dividend payments: and apply for dividends to be paid directly to a bank or to change existing bank details.
Shareholders can access these services at www.
com and selecting Share Portal Shareholders from the drop down menu, or alternatively via the Portals: Quick Links, and selecting Share Portal.
Shareholders will need to register for a Share Portal Account by completing an on-screen registration form.
An email address is required.
Shareholders Enquiries Capita Registrars are the Companys registrars and maintain the share register.
In the event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, lost certificates, dividend cheques, registered details, etc.
shareholders should contact them on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network charges or, if telephoning from overseas, 44 20 8639 3399.
Changes of name and address must be notified to the Registrars in writing.
Any general enquiries about the Company should be directed to the Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
52 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details CREST Proxy Voting Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
Manager and Advisers Fund Manager RCM UK Limited Represented by Simon Gergel, Portfolio Manager, and Simon White, Head of Investment Trusts Secretary and Registered Office Kirsten Salt BA Hons ACIS 155 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3AD Telephone: 020 7065 1513 Email: kirsten.
com Registered Number 28276 Registrars and Transfer Office Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Telephone if calling from within the UK : 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network charges Telephone if calling from overseas : 44 20 8639 3399 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Independent Auditors  LLP Hays Galleria 1 Hays Lane London SE1 2RD Bankers HSBC Bank Barclays Bank Stockbroker JPMorgan Cazenove Legal Advisers Herbert Smith LLP Allianz Global Investors Telephone: 0800 317 573 or www.
