The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Financial Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Annual Financial Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are published on www.
co. uk, which is a website maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, RCM UK Limited.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
The work undertaken by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 The Directors at the date of the approval of this Report, each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and this Annual Financial Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
For and on behalf of the Board Hugh Stevenson Chairman 6 April 2009 22
