The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Statement Attendance by Directors at formal Board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Management Audit Nomination Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings 6211 H. A. Stevenson 6 2 1 1 R. A. Barfield 6211 Sir Bob Reid# 21 Sir James Sassoon 6211 M. J. E. McKeon 51 P. J. Scott Plummer 6211 H. E. Staunton 2 Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
#Retired from the Board in May 2008.
Appointed to the Board in May 2008.
Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties with some changes from the previously existing law.
A director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Since 1 October 2008, directors are able to authorise these conflicts and potential conflicts if their companys articles of association allow it.
At the Annual General Meeting last year, shareholders approved changes to the Companys Articles of Association that permit the Directors to deal with and authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Board intends to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that its powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Each of the Directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest relating to the Company.
These statements have been considered and approved by the Board.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of any proposed new appointments and new conflicts or potential conflicts for consideration, if necessary, by the Board.
The Board has agreed that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and that in taking the decision the Directors will act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Board is able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if it thinks this is appropriate.
The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation are operating effectively and that the agreed procedures have been followed.
Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and has defined terms of reference and duties.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir James Sassoon.
The committee considers that, collectively, its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The committee meets at least twice each year and reviews the annual and half yearly financial statements and considers the Auditors report on the annual accounts, the planning and the process of the audit and the Auditors independence and objectivity.
It has also considered the non-audit services provided by the Auditors and determined that they have had no impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys accounting policies and considers their appropriateness.
The Committee also reviews the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration.
It meets representatives of the Manager twice-yearly and receives reports on the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company and reviews the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that the Company does not require an internal audit function of its own as it delegates its day to day operations to third parties from whom it receives internal controls reports.
As the Company has no employees it does not have a formal policy concerning the raising, in confidence, of any concerns about improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
The Audit Committee has, however, received and noted the Managers policy on this matter.
