The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies Finance costs net of amortised premiums are charged to capital and revenue at a ratio of 65:35 to reflect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue returns.
Dividends payable on the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are classified as an interest expense and are charged in full to revenue.
Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the Companys effective rate of Corporation tax for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured on a nondiscounted basis at the rate of corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The effect of changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, the Company is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the Company predominately operates.
The functional and reporting currency is pound sterling, reflecting the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses thereon are recognised in Capital Reserves.
Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend payable on Ordinary Shares is recognised as a liability when approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when paid.
Preference Stock Following the introduction of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock is classified as a liability as the rights of the stockholders to receive dividend payments are not calculated by reference to the Companys profits.
Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled Called up Share Capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares repurchased, and the Capital Redemption Reserve is correspondingly increased in accordance with Section 170 Companies Act 1985.
The full cost of the repurchase is charged to the Realised Capital Reserve.
