The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review deteriorating outlook for their businesses was not fully reflected in share prices.
Finally Smiths Group was sold after strong performance fully valued the shares.
Other top ten sales included reducing the large positions in GlaxoSmithKline and BP.
Their perceived resilience, strong balance sheets and exposure to a rising dollar led them to materially outperform the broader market.
We also partially sold Rexam, the beverage can and plastic packaging manufacturer which performed well and moved closer to our assessment of fair value.
Future Policy It is no exaggeration to say that the challenges facing economies are unprecedented in a generation.
Too many people, companies and governments have been relying on too much cheap debt to finance spending beyond their means and the economy needs to adjust through a potentially prolonged period of low growth or contraction as debt is paid down.
Authorities are desperate to avoid a Japan-like extended period of deflation or even a depression and they have brought in policies to try to smooth out this adjustment process.
They have cut interest rates aggressively and are pursuing aggressive monetary and fiscal stimuli to return economies to growth.
This is a fine balancing act with the risk of deflation on one side and currency devaluation and inflation on the other.
Our central view is that the worst of the possible outcomes will be avoided but we are set for a slow recovery from recession and a prolonged period of economic growth below the long term trend.
High inflation seems less of a risk than a prolonged recession but the threat cannot be ignored.
The economic background presents a real challenge for companies and progress in most risk assets, including equities, is likely to depend upon an easing of the credit crunch.
Many cyclical and financial companies are in survival mode and are taking action to rebuild balance sheets via rights issues and dividend cuts.
However it is not all bad news as many of the larger FTSE 100 companies are in sectors like pharmaceuticals, utilities, food retailers, food, beverage and tobacco producers and telecommunications.
These businesses typically have sound finances and solid cash flows and can increase their dividends.
The weakness of Sterling is also providing a welcome boost to many of the UKs largest companies which have significant overseas exposure.
It is often darkest before dawn and the stock market reflects a pessimistic outlook with share valuations either cheap or extremely cheap on most long term measures.
The Trusts portfolio continues to have a bias to well financed, multinational companies with strong cashflows.
We are however seeing attractive opportunities to buy strong companies that may carry cyclical risks but offer compelling long term value and a reasonable dividend yield.
Dividends The Merchants Trust has a twenty seven year record of consistently raising its dividend and the portfolio is managed with a view to continuing to generate a high level of income.
Clearly a number of companies have cut their payouts in recent months, most notably in the banking sector, and there are likely to be more dividend cuts as the year progresses.
However many of the largest holdings in the portfolio are delivering good dividend growth, boosted in particular by the strength of the dollar.
Our investment style typically involves reducing positions in companies that perform well and reinvesting in cheaper alternatives.
This tends to enhance income over time.
We also have the potential to reposition the portfolio to reduce the potential impact of specific dividend cuts as, for example, we did by reducing the HSBC exposure last year.
The biggest risks to the income generation of the portfolio relate to the depth and duration of the recession which will drive corporate profitability, the level of the market and other financial assets which can affect pension fund deficits and financial solvency, the level of sterling particularly against the US dollar and commodity prices, notably oil, which will impact cashflows at the big oil companies.
