The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Discount to net asset value NAV The Board has a share buy back programme which has a role to play in enhancing the NAV for existing shareholders, as shares are bought back at a discount, and in minimising the volatility of movements in the discount.
In the year to 31 January 2009 the shares traded between a discount of -9% and a premium of 17% with debt at fair value.
Total expense ratio TER The most significant expense for the Company is the cost of the management fee and the costs of interest on the Companys borrowings.
Other expenses include the costs of investment transactions, directors fees and insurance, professional advice and regulatory fees and the costs of production of the reports to shareholders.
The TER is calculated by dividing operating expenses, that is, the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses including tax relief where allowable, but excluding interest payments and investment management fee VAT refund as a percentage of total assets less current liabilities at the year end.
Revenue The return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the year amounted to 28,017,898 2008 23,649,820.
Earnings per ordinary dividend amounted to 27.25p.
The first and second interim dividends of 5.5p and 5.6p respectively have been paid during the year.
Since the year end the third interim dividend of 5.6p has been paid.
The special dividend of 0.5p and the final proposed dividend of 5.6p are both payable on 15 May 2009.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the third dividend, the special dividend and final dividend are not recognised as liabilities within the financial statements on the basis that they have not been paid and approved, respectively, by the shareholders.
Historical Record The distribution of total assets is shown on pages 12 and 13, and the historical record of the Companys revenue, capital and invested funds over the past ten years is shown on page 4.
Graphs appear on page 14 showing the performance on a total return basis over the past ten years of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary Shares against the Companys benchmark indices, the growth in net ordinary distributions made by the Company against the Retail Price Index, and the Companys discount to Net Asset Value over the same period.
Invested Funds Sales of investments during the year resulted in net losses based on historical costs of 38,449,932 2008 34,315,606 gains.
Provisions contained in the Finance Act 1980 exempt approved Investment Trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Investment Activity and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and peer group companies, and also in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on which the Board receives reports.
RCM UK Limited RCM provides the Directors with management information including performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment manager, who attends all board meetings, and reviews data which show risk factors and how they affect the portfolio.
The Board reviews investment strategy at each board meeting.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must comply with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section 842, and details are given above under the heading Business of the Company.
A breach of Section 842 could result in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains in the Companys portfolio would be subject to Corporation Tax.
The Section 842 criteria are monitored by RCM and results are reported to the Board at each Board Meeting.
The Company must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, and the Companies Act 2006 as it becomes enacted Companies Acts, and, as the Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company must comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the Companies Acts could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or becoming the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares 17
