The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Statement procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its internal audit department.
RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA and its compliance department regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
The Company receives reports at least annually from the manager on its internal controls.
The Company, in common with other investment trusts, has no internal audit department, but the effectiveness of the Managers internal controls is monitored by Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation and any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive review by the Board of management accounting information including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue against projections and performance comparisons.
Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by the Board.
The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and Custodians systems of controls by reviewing Internal Control reports provided by the Managers and third party service providers, including those of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, and Custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Relations with Shareholders The Board strongly believes that the annual general meeting should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Investment Manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be made available at the annual general meeting.
The Manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular basis and report to the Board on matters raised at these meetings.
All correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Directors may write care of the Company Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Policy The Investment Manager has been directed by the Board to take account of companies corporate social responsibility and environmental performance when taking investment decisions.
The Board has noted the Managers views on Social Responsibility that it adheres to in engaging with the underlying investee companies and in exercising its delegated responsibilities in voting.
These are that: We believe that good corporate governance includes the management of the companys impacts on society and the environment, as these are increasingly becoming a factor in contributing towards maximising long term shareholder value.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on its behalf, to the Manager.
The Board has noted the Managers statement of its corporate governance aims and objectives, summarised as: Our primary corporate aim is to maximise shareholder value through the securing of corporate performance whilst protecting this value through operating within established rules of conformance.
Our primary investment management aim is to meet or exceed our clients expectations through generating first class returns within the constraint of their risk tolerance.
26 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Statement RCM votes in all markets wherever possible, and strives actively to encourage both improved levels of disclosure among companies and proper voting infrastructure among custodians and agents globally.
In the UK, RCM is a member of the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF and the International Corporate Governance Network ICGN, and abides by these organisations founding principles.
These guidelines also take into account international codes of corporate governance from a number of sources, including Employment Retirement Income Security Act ERISA legislation and Department of Labor recommendations in the U. S. where appropriate.
Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in which the Company is invested, they do not participate in decisions made concerning those investments.
An extract from the Trusts voting record in the previous calendar year will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting each year.
