The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2009 1.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with the United Kingdom law, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP, issued in December 2005 by the Association of Investment Companies AIC formerly the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
The accounting policies adopted in preparing the current years financial statements are consistent with those of previous years.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and accordingly, that the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Companys business, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors Report, Business Review section on pages 16 to 18.
Revenue Dividends on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and treated as a capital or revenue item depending on the facts and circumstances of each dividend.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable and stocklending fees are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is recognised when the issue underwritten closes.
Investment management fees and administrative expenses The investment management fee is calculated on the basis set out in Note 2 to the financial statements and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and income returns.
Other administrative expenses are charged in full to revenue, except transaction charges which are charged to capital.
All expenses are recognised on an accrual basis.
Valuation As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of increases in fair value, financial assets are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Company manages and evaluates the performance of these investments on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy, and information about the investments is provided on this basis to the Board of Directors.
Investments held at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised at fair value.
After initial recognition, these continue to be measured at fair value, which for quoted investments is either the bid price or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Unlisted investments are valued by the Directors based upon the latest dealing prices, stockbrokers valuations, net asset values, earnings and other known accounting information in accordance with the principles set out by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines issued in March 2005.
The unrealised Capital Reserve reflects differences between fair value and book cost.
Net gains and losses on disposal of investments are recognised in the capital column of the Income Statement and are taken to the realised Capital Reserve.
Finance costs In accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, long term borrowings are stated at the amount of net proceeds on issue plus accrued finance costs to date.
Finance costs are calculated over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Where debt is issued at a premium, the premium is amortised over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
