The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The Merchants Trust PLC will be held at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, on Tuesday 12 May 2009 at 12.00 noon to transact the following business.
Routine Business 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2009 together with the Auditors Report thereon.
2 To declare a final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
3 To re-elect Mr H. A. Stevenson as a Director.
4 To re-elect Mr R. A. Barfield as a Director.
5 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
6 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
7 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business To consider and if thought fit to pass the following resolutions.
Resolution 8 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 9 and 10 as Special Resolutions: 8 That for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,567,788 provided that: i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date upon which this Resolution is passed but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years: and ii the authority shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
9 That the Directors be empowered in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that: i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,570,336: ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution: and iii the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if that power had not expired.
10 That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 15,411,738: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: 54 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount as may be specified by the London Stock Exchange from time to time: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
155 Bishopsgate By Order of the Board London EC2M 3AD K. J.
Salt 6 April 2009 Secretary Annual General Meeting Venue 55 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notes: 1.
Members entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in their stead.
The proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the office of the Registrars at least 48 hours before the Meeting.
A form of proxy is provided with the Annual Financial Report.
Completion of the enclosed form of proxy does not preclude a Member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at 6p.
m. on 10 May 2009 the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of Members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
56 sterling 113799 Printed on FSC-certified paper from well-managed forests and recycled wood or fibre, using vegetable based inks.
com RCM UK Limited is a company of Allianz Global Investors
