noTes To fInanCIaL sTaTeMenTs 20 Contingent Liabilities, Guarantees and Financial Commitments At 30 April 2009 the Company had a contingent liability of 9,045,000 2008 13,500,000 in respect of a subscription agreement relating to participating unsecured loan notes which expire on 31 December 2010.
21 Recoverable VAT In 2007 the European Court of Justice ruled that investment management fees should be exempt from VAT.
Since then, HMRC has accepted the Managers repayment claims for the periods from 1990 to 1996 and from 2000 to 2007.
During the period the Company received a reimburshment of 2,902,000 in this regard of which 1,164,000 had been recognised in the year to 30 April 2008, with the balance of 1,738,000 being recognised in the current period together with interest thereon of 1,078,000.
22 Related Party Transactions The Directors fees for the year are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
During the year no Director was interested in any contract or other matter requiring disclosure under section 412 of the Companies Act 2006.
The details of the management fee are set out in note 3, and the management fee due to Baillie Gifford as at 30 April 2009 is disclosed in note 11.
23 Financial Instruments As an investment trust, the Company invests in equities and makes other investments so as to secure its investment objective of capital growth.
The Company borrows money when the Board and Managers have sufficient conviction that the assets funded by borrowed monies will generate a return in excess of the cost of borrowing.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that cause short term variation in the Companys net assets and could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for dividend.
These risks are categorised here as market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Board monitors closely the Companys exposures to these risks but does so in order to reduce the likelihood of a permanent reduction in the Companys net assets rather than to minimise the short term volatility.
The risk management policies and procedures outlined in this note have not changed substantially from the previous accounting period.
Market Risk The fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument or other investment held by the Company may fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and the Companys Investment Manager both assesses the exposure to market risk when making individual investment decisions and monitors the overall level of market risk across the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
Details of the Companys investment portfolio are shown in note 9.
Details of derivative financial instruments outstanding at the balance sheet date are shown on page 44.
Currency Risk Certain of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling the Companys functional currency and that in which it reports its results.
Consequently, movements in exchange rates may affect the sterling value of those items.
The Investment Manager monitors the Companys exposure to foreign currencies and reports to the Board on a regular basis.
The Investment Manager assesses the risk to the Company of the foreign currency exposure by considering the effect on the Companys net asset value and income of a movement in the rates of exchange to which the Companys assets, liabilities, income and expenses are exposed.
However, the currency in which a companys share price is quoted is not necessarily the one in which it earns its profits.
The movement in exchange rates on overseas earnings may have a more significant impact upon a companys valuation than a simple translation of the currency in which the share price of the company is quoted.
Foreign currency borrowings and forward currency contracts are used periodically to limit the Companys exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which might otherwise adversely affect the value of the portfolio of investments.
Where appropriate, they are used also to achieve the portfolio characteristics that assist the Company in meeting its investment objectives.
Exposure to currency risk through asset allocation, which is calculated by reference to the currency in which the asset or liability is quoted, is shown opposite.
The main change to net currency exposure during the year has been an increase in the US dollar exposure relative to other currencies, mainly due to net investment in US dollar denominated bonds and, to a lesser extent, US equities.
