noTes To fInanCIaL sTaTeMenTs 1 Principal Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, which are unchanged e Income from the prior year and have been applied consistently, are set out below.
i Income from equity investments, is brought into account on the date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where a Basis of Accounting no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost receive payment is established.
Equity investment income includes convention, except for the revaluation of fixed asset investments and distributions from Collective Investment Schemes other than those that derivatives which are recorded at fair value, and on the assumption that relate to equalisation, which are treated as capital items.
approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
ii Interest from fixed interest securities including the zero coupon The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with element of the swap rate linked note is recognised on an effective The Companies Act 2006, applicable UK accounting standards and yield basis.
with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued in January 2003, revised in 2005. iii Unfranked investment income and overseas dividends include the taxes deducted at source.
In order to better reflect the activities of the trust and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses iv Franked investment income is stated net of tax credits.
the profit and loss account between items of a revenue and capital v Underwriting commission and interest receivable on deposits are nature has been presented in the Income Statement.
recognised on an accruals basis.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of the balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be sterling cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in the UK and f Expenses the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged b Investments through the revenue account except where they relate directly to the Investment purchases and sales are recognised on a trade date basis.
acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which case they are added Expenses incidental to acquisition are included in purchase cost and to the cost of the investment or deducted from the sale proceeds.
expenses incidental to sale are deducted from proceeds of sale.
g Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs Gains and losses on investments are recognised in the Income Statement Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at amortised as capital items.
cost, representing the cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued finance costs.
The finance costs of such borrowings are Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss allocated to the revenue account at a constant rate on the carrying on initial recognition and are measured at subsequent reporting dates amount.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate over the life of the at fair value.
The fair value of listed investments is bid value, or in borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or early settlement of the case of FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded prices issued by debt is wholly charged to capital.
Listed investments include Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued h Deferred Taxation at closing prices and are classified in the list of investments according Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have to the principal geographical area of the underlying holdings.
The fair originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, calculated at the value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, determined by tax rates expected to apply when the timing differences reverse, based the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, stockbroker valuations, on what has been enacted or substantively enacted, relevant to the net asset values and other information, as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which c Derivatives underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management including reducing, transferring or eliminating risk in its i Dividend Distributions investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve capital Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid growth.
Such instruments are recognised on the date of the contract that and final dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends creates the Companys obligation to pay or receive cash flows and are are approved by the Companys shareholders.
measured as financial assets or liabilities at fair value at subsequent j Foreign Currencies reporting dates, while the relevant contracts remain open.
The fair value is determined by reference to the open market value of the contract.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the time of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities and fixed Where the investment rationale for the use of derivatives is to hedge asset investment in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rates specific risks pertaining to the Companys portfolio composition, hedge of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Forward foreign exchange accounting will only be adopted where the derivative instrument contracts are valued at the forward rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
relates specifically to a single item, or group of items, of equal and Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to opposite financial exposure, and where the derivative instrument has the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the been explicitly designated as a hedge of such item s at the date of Income Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
In all other circumstances changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Income k Capital Reserves Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
i Capital Reserve Realised: Gains and losses on realisation of investments and realised d Cash and Liquid Resources exchange differences of a capital nature are dealt with in this Cash and liquid resources includes cash in hand, deposits held at call reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares for cancellation are with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original also funded from this reserve.
maturities of three months or less.
ii Capital Reserve Unrealised: Unrealised appreciation depreciation represents the amount by which the market value of assets and liabilities differs from their book value and is dealt with in this reserve.
