Savoy Street Carting lane r e e t B e d f o r d S t Adam St Robert St A gar St York Buildings Buck St Villiers St Charing Cross noTICe of annuaL generaL MeeTIng Notice of Annual General Meeting Vaudeville Th Notice is hereby given that the eightieth Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the RSA, 8 John Adelphi Th Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ on Tuesday, 4 August 2009, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: RSA Ordinary Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as ordinary resolutions.
To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company for Cleopatras the year to 30 April 2009 with the Reports of the Directors and of Needle the Independent Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 April 2009.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the RSA, 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ on 4 August 2009 at 11.00 am.
To re-elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us 5.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
To reappoint  LLP as Independent Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Special Business Independent Auditors.
That with immediate effect clause 4 B of the Companys objects clause shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolutions 8 to 10 as special resolutions: B To acquire by original subscription, tender, purchase, or otherwise, and to hold any Bonds, Stocks or Securities 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under section 166 of British, Foreign or Colonial Governments, States, of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to Dominions, Sovereigns, Provinces, Municipalities, or the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Public Authorities, or the Bonds, Debentures, Debenture Company be authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Stocks, Scrip, Obligations, Shares, Stocks or Securities Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section of any Companies, Public Works, and Undertakings 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of incorporated or established by Act of Parliament, Royal the Company Shares, provided that: Charter, or under any general Act in Great Britain or a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby its Dominions, Colonies or Dependencies, or by State authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Authority, or under the laws of any Foreign Country or issued ordinary share capital on the date on which this State.
And also to invest, by way of purchase, mortgage resolution is passed: or otherwise, in any freehold, copyhold or leasehold property in Great Britain or elsewhere and to deal with b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall and turn to account the same as may seem expedient.
That with effect from 00.01 am on 1 October 2009: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all of the provisions of the Companys i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as the London Stock Exchange for the Shares for the part of the Companys Articles of Association: five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and b the Articles of Association of the Company be amended ii the higher of the last independent bid and the by deleting all provisions referred to in paragraph 42 of highest current independent bid on the London Stock schedule 2 of the Companies Act 2006 Commencement Exchange: and No 8, Transitional Provisions and Savings Order 2008 Statutory Instrument 2008 No.
2860 : and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, the authority hereby c the Articles of Association of the Company produced at the conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual meeting, and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of identification, be adopted as the Articles of Association of the year ending 30 April 2010, save that the Company the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Articles of Association of the Company existing at that date.
Shares under such authority which will or might be By order of the Board completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration Baillie Gifford & Co of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Managers and Secretaries 29 June 2009 THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45 William IV St E C A L Chandos Place P Y Ho St Adelphi Ter O Maiden Lane S T R A N D m A V s S en rd t Ga s men John Ad am Street bank ia Em Victor e m a a h T E m b a n k m e n t r e v i R h r Du noTICe of annuaL generaL MeeTIng Notes 6.
As at 10 June 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication of 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is entitled to this document, the Company had 263,644,859 ordinary shares in issue appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, vote on with a total of 263,644,859 voting rights.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of members is enclosed and to be valid must be 7.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Company who lodged with the Registrars of the Company not later than 2 working days appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to before the time set for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
Any Power ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of Attorney or any other authority under which the proxy is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the 8.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from 9.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
its website, a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Companys financial statements, including the Auditors Report and the 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders entered on conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the next meeting of the Company.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received the Register of Members of the Company as at the close of business on such requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the total 2 August 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 members who have a Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100. of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Copies of the amended Memorandum and new Memorandum and Changes to the entries on the Register of Members after the close of Articles of Association will be available for inspection at Royal London business on 2 August 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is House, 22-25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and Calton Square, adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, during normal business hours adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in date of the notice of the AGM until the conclusion of the AGM.
These any enactment, the Articles of Association of the Company or other documents will also be available at the place of the AGM for 15 minutes instrument to the contrary.
before and during the AGM.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
