aPPendIx To The noTICe of annuaL generaL MeeTIng Further Shareholder Information How to Invest Analysis of Shareholders The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
At 30 April 2009 At 30 April 2008 They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking Number % Number % a professional adviser to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see inside back cover for details.
If you are interested in Institutions 97,711,696 37.1 108,504,306 41.1 investing directly in Monks, you can do so online.
There are a number Intermediaries 117,306,874 44.5 108,353,283 41.0 of companies offering real time online dealing services find out more Individuals 28,744,772 10.9 27,545,707 10.4 by visiting the investment trust pages at www.
Baillie Gifford Share Plan ISA 17,916,738 6.8 16,662,330 6.3 Sources of Further Information on the Company Marketmakers 1,964,779 0.7 3,114,233 1.2 The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times 263,644,859 100.0 264,179,859 100.0 and can also be found on the Baillie Gifford website at www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company factsheets are also available To take advantage of this service, please log in at on the Baillie Gifford website and are updated monthly.
com investor and enter your Shareholder available from Baillie Gifford on request.
Reference Number and Company Code this information can be found on the last dividend voucher or your share certificate.
Key Dates Divided Reinvestment Plan Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid in January and a Computershare operate a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which can be final dividend is paid in August.
The AGM is normally held at the used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your dividend via start of August.
cheque or into your bank account.
For further information log in to www-uk.
com investor and follow the instructions or Capital Gains Tax telephone 0870 707 1694.
For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value of an Electronic Proxy Voting ordinary share in the Company as at 31 March 1982 as adjusted for the five for one share split in July 2001 was 14.1p.
If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to vote by returning proxies electronically at www.
com Share Register Enquiries If you have any questions about this service please contact Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share register Computershare on 0870 707 1170. on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries regarding shares registered in your own name, please contact the Registrars on 0870 CREST Proxy Voting 707 1170.
If you are a user of the CREST system including a CREST Personal This helpline also offers an automated self-service functionality Member, you may appoint one or more proxies or give an available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message hear the latest share price: transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, confirm your current share holding balance: the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID confirm your payment history: and number 3RA50 not later than 2 working days before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp Transfer forms.
generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is By quoting the reference number on your share certificate you can able to retrieve the message.
CREST Personal Members or other also check your holding on the Registrars web site at CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsors for www-uk.
assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings, please refer They also offer a free, secure share management website service to the CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy which allows you to: appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. shares: Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
calculate the total market price of each shareholding: Where this has been received in a country where the provision of view price histories and trading graphs: such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this update bank mandates and change address details: should be treated as information only.
use online dealing services: and pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in your chosen local currency.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 furTher sharehoLder InforMaTIon Monks is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer investors the following: participation in a diversified portfolio of shares: constant supervision by experienced professional managers: and the Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for capital gains tax on profits when selling their investment.
The financial statements have been approved by the Directors of The Monks Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA, and the Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides information about its products and does not provide investment advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford and Monks Directors may hold shares in Monks and may buy or sell such shares from time to time, subject to Baillie Giffords personal account dealing rules.
Risks Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Monks is listed on the stock market.
As a result, the value of the shares, and any income from those shares, is not guaranteed and could go down as well as up.
You may not get back the amount you invested.
You should view your investment as long term.
As Monks invests in overseas securities, changes in the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
Monks can borrow money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of the investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
Monks can buy back and cancel its own shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when the Company buys back and cancels its shares.
Monks can make use of derivatives.
Where derivatives are used to compensate for possible unfavourable currency and market movements there is a risk that potential gains may be restricted in a rising market.
Where derivatives are used for investment purposes there could be a high risk of loss to the Company due to the large and quick price movements of these contracts.
The generation of income is less important than Monks aim of achieving capital growth.
You should not expect a significant, or steady, annual income from the shares.
Tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs, may change at any time in the future.
The value of any tax benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings vehicles shown on the inside back cover are contained in the product brochures.
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 baILLIe gIfford savIngs vehICLes Baillie Gifford Savings Vehicles Monks shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought through a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through the following Baillie Gifford savings vehicles.
Baillie Giffords Investment Trust Share Plan You can invest from 250 or from 30 per month.
The plan is designed to be a cost-effective way of saving on a regular or lump sum basis.
Baillie Giffords Investment Trust ISA You can invest in a tax efficient way by investing a minimum of 2,000 or from 100 per month or by transferring an ISA with a value of at least 2,000 from your existing manager.
Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan A cost-effective plan tailored especially to meet the requirements to save for children.
You can invest a minimum of 250 or from 30 per month.
Online Management Service You can now also open and manage your Share Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the Baillie Gifford website at www.
OMS enables you to apply for, open and administer a Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA online.
As well as being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also allows you to: get current valuations: make lump sum investments: switch between investment trusts except where there is more than one holder : set up a direct debit to make regular investments: and update certain personal details.
Further Information Client Relations Team Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Calton Square 1 Greenside Row EDINBURGH EH1 3AN Tel: 0800 027 0133 We may record your call E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com Fax: 0131 275 3955 directors registered office registrar Independent auditors Chairman: Computershare Computershare  LLP JGD Ferguson Investor Services PLC Investor Services PLC Chartered Accountants and 2nd Floor PO Box 82 Statutory Auditors CC Ferguson Vintners Place The Pavilions Erskine House EM Harley 68 Upper Thames Bridgwater Road PO Box 90 DCP McDougall Street Bristol BS99 7NH 6873 Queen Street London EC4V 3BJ Tel: 0870 707 1170 Edinburgh EH2 4NH Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
