Glossary of Terms and Definitions Prior Charges Actual Gearing The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan Total Assets as below less all cash and fixed interest assets and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for excluding convertibles divided by shareholders' funds.
investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, Asset Cover index-linked securities, and all types of preference or The value of a company's net assets available to repay a preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a irrespective of the time until repayment.
multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available by the amount required to repay the specific security.
Reverse Convertible security also known as an Equitylinked note Discount A type of bond where the redemption proceeds are linked to The amount by which the market price per share of an the capital performance of an underlying equity.
This type of investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
bond generally receives a steady stream of income due to The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the the payment of a high coupon rate.
The investor is fully net asset value per share.
exposed to the downside performance of the underlying equity but has only limited upside participation.
The high Dividend Cover coupon rate compensates the investor for the limited Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed participation in the upside of the underlying equity.
is normally cash settled at maturity.
Dividend Yield Total Assets The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior price.
Net Asset Value Total Expense Ratio The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this Ratio of expenses as percentage of average shareholders' purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net funds calculated as per the industry standard Upper Fitzrovia asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces method.
the net asset value per share.
Total Return Potential Gearing Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the Total Assets including all debt being used for investment month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return purposes divided by shareholders' funds.
involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg Premium quarter end, half year or year end date.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The Winding-up Date premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net The date specified in the Articles of Association for windingasset value per share.
Price Earnings Ratio The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock market's view of a company's prospects and profit growth potential.
