Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Report and the financial statements in accordance with Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate applicable law and regulations.
Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The financial statements are published on statements for each financial year.
co. uk which is a website maintained by the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in Companys Manager.
The Directors are responsible for the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards information included on the Companys website.
Under company law the Directors must in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied financial statements may differ from legislation in other that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of jurisdictions.
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Directors are required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them applicable UK Accounting Standards, give a true and fair consistently: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or make judgments and accounting estimates that are loss of the Company: and reasonable and prudent: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have development and performance of the business and the been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed position of the Company, together with a description of the and explained in the financial statements: principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business For Murray International Trust PLC The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable J F H Trott accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Chairman and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 22 February 2010 comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
