144 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Cairn Energy PLC Incorporated and registered in Scotland, registered number SC226712 THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended immediately to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Cairn Energy PLC, you should pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy without delay to the stockbroker, bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting the Meeting of Cairn Energy PLC the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of the Caledonian Hilton, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon UK time on Thursday, 20 May 2010 for the following purposes: As Routine Business: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 6 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
That the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the report and accounts be approved.
That Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditors of the Company and that the Directors be authorised to fix their remuneration.
That Malcolm Thoms, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as a director.
That Jann Brown, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as a director.
That Simon Thomson, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as a director.
As Special Business: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 7 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 8 to 11 will be proposed as special resolutions: 7.
That: a the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,868,716.55: b the directors be authorised to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, comprising equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended the Act up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,868,716.55 in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by means of a rights issue: c the authorities given by this resolution: i are given pursuant to section 551 of the Act and shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities under that section or its predecessor section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended : and ii unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with the Act, shall expire on 30 June 2011 or, if earlier, at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require the allotment of shares in the Company, or the grant of rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, after such expiry: and d for the purpose of this resolution, Pre-Emptive Offer means an offer of equity securities to: i holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective holdings of such shares: and ii other persons entitled to participate in such offer by virtue of, and in accordance with, the rights attaching to any other equity securities held by them, in each case, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of any territory or otherwise.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 145 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Continued 8.
That: a subject to the passing of resolution 7 set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting dated 19 April 2010 the Allotment Authority, the directors be given power pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of treasury shares: i in the case of paragraph a of the Allotment Authority: a in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer as defined in the Allotment Authority : or b otherwise than in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer, up to a maximum nominal amount of 430,350.52: ii in the case of paragraph b of the Allotment Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by means of a rights issue: and b the power given by this resolution: i shall be in substitution for all pre-existing powers under section 570 of the Act or its predecessor section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended : and ii unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 8 of the Act of fully-paid ordinary shares of 13 pence each Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company may decide provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares that may be purchased by the Company pursuant to this authority is 209,656,012 representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2010 : ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share shall not be less than the nominal value of that share at the time of purchase: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any Ordinary Share purchased pursuant to this authority is an amount equal to the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in the quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETs : and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the earlier of 19 November 2011 or at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, but the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under this authority before its expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and may complete such a purchase as if this authority had not expired.
That: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and b the articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011.
By order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 50 Lothian Road Edinburgh EH3 9BY 19 April 2010 146 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Continued SHAREHOLDER NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the Meeting to represent you.
A form of proxy accompanies this Notice of Annual General Meeting and must be lodged with the Company at the office of its registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR the Registrars or received via the Sharevote service see Note 2 below or lodged using the CREST proxy voting service see Note 3 below not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Meeting or any adjournment s thereof.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting from doing so if he or she wishes.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the form of proxy.
If you wish to change or revoke your proxy appointment, please contact the Registrars on 0871 384 2660 if calling from overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 for further details.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Calls to the 0871 384 2660 number cost 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Calls to the helpline from outside the United Kingdom will be charged at applicable international rates.
Members may register their proxy appointments or voting directions electronically via the www.
co. uk website, where full details of the procedure are given.
Members will need the Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number set out on the form of proxy which accompanies this Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Members are advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
The Company will not accept any communication that is found to contain a computer virus.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 May 2010 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Registrars by no later than 12.00 noon on Tuesday, 18 May 2010, or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the adjourned Meeting not including any part of any day that is a non-working day.
No such message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual can be reviewed at www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different Ordinary Shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one Ordinary Share.
To appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Registrars on 0871 384 2660 if calling from overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Persons.
Nominated Persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representative s who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same Ordinary Shares.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 147 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Continued 7.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on Tuesday, 18 May 2010 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two days excluding any part of a day that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 5.00pm on 31 March 2010 the latest practicable time before printing this Notice of Annual General Meeting, the Companys 8 issued share capital comprised 1,398,639,179 ordinary shares of pence each.
Each such ordinary share carries the right to one 13 vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 5.00pm on 31 March 2010 was 1,398,639,179.
There will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of posting of this Notice of Annual General Meeting until the date of the Meeting and at the place of the Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the time fixed for the Meeting and during the Meeting, copies of the following documents: a the register of directors interests in Ordinary Shares of the Company: b the executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment: c the Companys existing Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association: and d the proposed new Articles of Association marked up to show the differences from the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this Notice of Annual General Meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting will be available on the Companys website at www.
Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting which is put by a member attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys Accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents including the Chairmans letter and proxy form, to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
This Notice of Annual General Meeting should be read in conjunction with the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts entitled Board of Directors, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, and Directors Remuneration Report.
148 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 COMPANY INFORMATION Financial Advisers Stockbrokers N M Rothschild & Sons Limited RBS Hoare Govett Limited New Court 250 Bishopsgate St Swithins Lane London London EC2M 4AA EC4P 4DU Bank of America Merrill Lynch Secretary 2 King Edward Street Duncan Wood LLB London EC1A 1HQ Solicitors Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Registrars 1 Exchange Crescent Equiniti Conference Square Aspect House Edinburgh Spencer Road EH3 8UL Lancing West Sussex Auditor BN99 6DA Ernst & Young LLP T 0871 384 2660 Ten George Street www.
co. uk Edinburgh EH2 2DZ These materials contain forward-looking statements regarding Cairn, our corporate plans, future financial condition, future results of operations, future business plans and strategies.
All such forward-looking statements are based on our managements assumptions and beliefs in the light of information available to them at this time.
These forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual results, performance and achievements may be materially different from those expressed in such statements.
Factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to, regulatory changes, future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, weather and weather related impacts, wars and acts of terrorism, development and use of technology, acts of competitors and other changes to business conditions.
Cairn undertakes no obligation to revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Cairns expectations with regard thereto or any change in circumstances or events after the date hereof.
Printed on Hello Silk 300gsm cover and 170gsm pages 1-44 and 150gsm pages 45-148.
Hello Silk is an FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests.
This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation.
Head Office Nepal 50 Lothian Road House No.
66 Edinburgh Hitaisi Marg EH3 9BY Ward No.
com Head Office Bangladesh 3rd & 4th Floors IDB Bhaban 9th Floor Vipul Plaza, Suncity E 8A Rokeya Sharani Sector 54 Sher-E-Bangla Nagar Gurgaon 122 002 Agargaon T 91 124 414 1360 Dhaka 1207 F 91 124 288 9320 T 880 2 812 7387 Cairn India Registered Office F 880 2 812 5744 101, West View Tunisia Veer Savarkar Marg Immeuble Carthage Center Prabhadevi Bloc B Mumbai 400025 Rue du Lac fide Constance Berges du Lac 1053 Tunis www.
