shareholder iNforMatioN on their holdings in the Company should contact Computershare Annual General Meeting and First Quarter Investor Services in Johannesburg on 27 0 861 100 940 or Interim Management Statement 13 May 2010 27 0 11 870 8211.
Record date for the final dividend 14 May 2010 Checking your holding online Final dividend payment date and issue of shares An online service is situated at the Investor Centre option within the under the scrip dividend alternative 25 June 2010 website address www.
com which gives shareholders Interim results 6 August 2010 access to their account to confirm registered details, to give or Third Quarter Interim Management Statement 4 November 2010 amend dividend mandate instructions, and to obtain a current shareholding balance.
A simple calculator function places a market Final results for 2010 March 2011 quote against each holding and allows shareholders to estimate its Rule 144A ADRs value.
There are also a number of downloadable forms from this site such as change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer The Company has a Rule 144A American Depositary Receipt forms.
Finally there is an extensive list of frequently asked questions Rule 144A ADR facility through The Bank of New York.
Each and the facility to contact Computershare Investor Services by email.
Rule 144A ADR represents 10 ordinary shares in the Company.
At 31 December 2009, 25,900 of the Companys shares were held Warning to Shareholders boiler room scams in the form of Rule 144A ADRs.
Any enquiries about the Companys In recent years, many companies have become aware that their Rule 144A ADR facility should be addressed to The Bank of New York, shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 101 Barclay Street, New York, NY 10286, USA, tel: 1-888-BNY-ADRS concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas 1-888-269-2377 if you are calling from within the USA.
If you are based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them calling from outside the USA, please call 1 212 815 3700.
You may what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK also send an email enquiry to shareowners@bankofny.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
Websites These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported Further information on the Company can be found on the following that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000. websites: www.
com It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: www.
co. za many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Electronic communications and electronic proxy appointment offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you would like to receive future communications from the Company If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: by email, please log on to our website, www.
com, select the Shareholder Information section, click on Electronic Make sure you get the correct name of the person and Communications and then follow the instructions for registration organisation of your details.
In order to register, you will need your shareholder Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting reference number, which can be found on the payment advice involved by visiting www.
uk register notice or tax voucher accompanying your last dividend payment or notification.
The number is also printed on forms of proxy but not Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or voting instruction forms for the Annual General Meeting.
uk Before you register, you will be asked to agree to the Terms and If the calls persist, hang up.
Conditions for Electronic Communications with Shareholders.
It is important that you read these Terms and Conditions carefully, as they If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to set out the basis on which electronic communications will be sent receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation to you.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml You should bear in mind that, in accessing documents electronically, you will incur the cost of online time.
Any election to receive Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will documents electronically will generally remain in force until you be included in company mailings.
contact the Companys Registrars via the online address set out More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on earlier in this section of the Report or otherwise to terminate or change such election.
uk Financial calendar The use of the electronic communications facility described above is entirely voluntary.
If you wish to continue to receive communications The Companys financial calendar for the forthcoming year is as from the Company by post, then you do not need to take any action.
follows: Currency conversion date for the final dividend 5 May 2010 Electronic proxy appointment is available for this years Annual General Meeting.
This enables proxy votes to be submitted Local currency equivalents and scrip dividend electronically, as an alternative to filling out and posting a form of alternative calculation announced 6 May 2010 proxy.
Further details are set out on the form of proxy.
Electronic submission is not, however, available for voting instruction forms.
396 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Glossary Deferred acquisition costs We have written this glossary to help readers understand certain words and jargon used in our industry.
In line with our aim of writing A method of accounting whereby the acquisition costs on long-term this report in plain English, the definitions are not precise or technical: business eg sales commissions are recognised over the life of the they should not be used as the basis for making investment or other contracts rather than up-front at the time of sale.
deferred on the balance sheet as an asset and amortised over the contract life.
A technical glossary of the financial terms can be found on our website at www.
com Deferred Annuity An annuity due to be paid from a future date or when the policyholder Actuary reaches a specified age.
A deferred annuity may be funded by the Someone who uses mathematics in particular, probability to provide policyholder by payment of a series of regular contributions or by a solutions to insurance-related problems.
Actuarial techniques are capital sum.
used to design new insurance products and to assess the profitability of new and existing business.
Embedded value EV Life insurance contracts are usually long-term and may involve Adjusted Net Worth ANW complex payment flows.
This means it is difficult to measure the Represents the market value of the net shareholders assets held in value of a life insurance business or how much income it is likely to respect of the covered business and forms part of the Embedded generate over time.
EV is a way of indicating what the underlying Value of a life company.
business is worth based on the total of the net assets already invested in the business and the profits expected to emerge in Annual Premium Equivalent APE the future.
A standardised measure of the volume of new life business written.
It is calculated as the sum of annualised new recurring-premiums Experience variance and 10% of the new single-premiums written in an annual reporting In calculating embedded value of life business it is necessary to period.
It gives a broadly comparable measure across companies to make assumptions about items such as lapses or surrenders, allow for differences between regular and single premium business.
In any period the actual result for these items will differ from the assumed experience: this is known as the Annuity experience variance.
A regular payment from an insurance company made for an agreed period of time usually up to the death of the recipient in return Financial Groups Directive FGD for either a cash lump sum or a series of premiums which the A financial regime applying to EU-based companies whose activities policyholder has saved during their working lifetime.
span both the banking and investment sectors and the insurance sector.
It lays down requirements for the Companys capital position Asset management and is intended to improve the stability of the financial system, An investment management service provided by financial institutions thereby protecting customers.
on behalf of their customers.
FGD Surplus Assumptions This represents the amount of capital in the Company which is Variables applied to data used to project expected outcomes.
In the surplus to the statutory solvency requirement for insurance groups as life insurance business this might include assumptions on average life laid down by the Financial Groups Directive.
expectancy and policy surrender rates.
Financial Services Authority FSA Bancassurance The regulator of financial services in the United Kingdom.
An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell life, pension and savings products on behalf of other financial providers.
Financial Services Board FSB The regulator of financial services in South Africa.
Boutique A small investment firm specialising in offering specific services to a Funds Under Management FUM select number of individuals.
The total value at market prices of funds managed by a company on behalf of shareholders and customers.
Capital Adequacy Requirement CAR The level of capital required by Old Mutual Life Assurance Company General insurance property and casualty insurance South Africa Limited to support its insurance business.
It is mostly Short-Term Insurance driven by the capital required to absorb investment risk and generally Non-life insurance mainly concerned with protecting the policyholder exceeds the level of capital required by the national regulator called from loss or damage caused by specific risks.
Examples include the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement.
motor, contents and buildings insurance.
Property insurance covers loss or damage through, for example, fire or theft.
Casualty insurance Covered business covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people A concept defined in the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV or damage to their property.
It refers to long-term business which includes traditional life insurance, long-term healthcare and accident In-force insurances, savings, pensions and annuities.
An insurance policy is said to be in-force from its start date until the date it is terminated.
Old Mutual plc 397 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Glossary Net Client Cash Flow NCCF Independent financial adviser IFA In the UK an IFA is a person or organisation authorised to give advice The difference between money received from customers on financial matters and to sell the products of all financial services eg.
premiums, deposits and investments and money given back to providers.
IFAs are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
claims, surrenders, maturities during the period.
Non-profit policy Insurance A contract taken out with an insurer to give financial protection Insurance cover guaranteeing certain benefits, but where the against loss from a perceived risk.
The person taking out the policyholder bears no investment risk and does not gain or lose if insurance is called the insured.
Payments for the policy are called returns differ from expectations.
Pure risk business such as annuities premiums.
and health insurance is normally written on a non-profit basis.
Lapses withdrawals surrenders Open-architecture The voluntary termination of a policy by a policyholder before the Where a company offers investment products from a range of maturity date.
other companies in addition to its own products.
The advantage for customers is that it gives them a wider choice of funds to invest in Life insurance and access to a larger pool of money management professionals.
An insurance contract which promises the payment of an agreed Pension sum of money upon the death of the insured within a specified period of time.
Also known as life assurance.
A regular payment received by an individual during their retirement until their death.
A pension is usually bought through the payment of Liquidity Premium regular contributions during the individuals working lifetime.
A liquidity premium can be viewed as compensation for the lower Platform liquidity of corporate bonds compared to government debt and for the risk that the market value of bonds will fall prior to maturity due to Online services used by intermediaries and consumers to view and increasing credit spreads.
Platforms provide facilities for buying and selling investments including Individual Savings Accounts Long-term Business ISA, Self-Invested Pension Plans SIPPs and life insurance and for A term used by the Group to describe its life, health and pensions viewing an individuals entire portfolio to assess asset allocation and business and includes both covered and non-covered business.
The term is broadly used throughout the industry, for example it is Premium a UK regulatory expression broadly equivalent to life insurance and pensions.
The payment a policyholder makes in return for insurance cover.
A single-premium contract involves a single lump sum payment Long-term Investment Return LTIR made at the start of the contract.
Under a regular-premium contract The long-term return that Old Mutual assumes can realistically be the policyholder agrees at the start to make regular payments earned on its investible shareholder assets when calculating Adjusted throughout the term of the contract.
Long-term investment return rates are reviewed annually and reflect the returns expected on the chosen asset Sum assured classes.
The lump sum benefit payable under an insurance policy or contract in circumstances which are defined within the policy: eg the amount Mark-to-market adjustment payable on the death of the policyholder.
An accounting adjustment to the book value of an asset or liability to Technical provisions reflect its market value.
Amounts set aside on the basis of actuarial calculations to meet Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV forecast future obligations to policyholders.
The standard of reporting for life insurance companies.
It provides Underwriting Profit general insurance a common set of principles and guidelines for use in calculating embedded value.
MCEV attempts to measure the value of business A generally accepted non-life insurance term, also referred to as in-force based on a set of best estimate assumptions, allowing for underwriting result, representing earned premiums minus the cost of the impact of uncertainty in future investment returns.
It is designed claims and operating expenses.
It indicates whether premiums cover to provide an accurate reflection of the performance of long-term claims and expenses or not.
savings business and a method of comparing companies on a Unit-linked policy consistent basis.
A type of long-term savings plan where premiums are used to buy Maturity units in an investment fund, such as a unit trust, and the benefits will The date that an insurance policy or other financial contract finishes be linked to the value of the underlying units rather than being fixed or matures and the benefit becomes payable.
or guaranteed at the start of the plan.
Mutual fund unit trust Value of in-force business VIF Fund of shares, bonds and other assets held by a manager for the Part of the embedded value of a life insurance company.
It represents benefit of investors who buy units in the fund, effectively pooling their the discounted value of the profits expected to arise from the in-force money with that of other investors.
It enables investors to achieve a business.
VIF is calculated using a set of actuarial, economic and more diversified portfolio than they might have done by making an operational assumptions.
398 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Glossary Value of new business VNB The discounted value of the future profits expected to arise from all new business sold during a reporting period.
VNB is calculated by using actuarial assumptions.
With-profit A type of investment policy in which extra amounts bonuses may be added to the sum assured to reflect profits earned during the course of the contract.
Regular bonuses are usually added each year and, once declared, are guaranteed.
A final or terminal bonus may be added when the policy becomes payable.
Wrap account An account in which a broker or fund manager executes investment decisions on behalf of a client in exchange for a fee.
These decisions might include shareholdings, investment funds, pensions and life insurance contracts.
Wrap platform An investment platform which enables investment funds, pensions, direct equity holdings and some life insurance contracts to be held in the same administrative account rather than as separate holdings.
Old Mutual plc 399 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read 400 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 n Fast ReaD whats online 01 Our Group in transition 02 Our business at a glance 04 Our strategy 05 Key performance indicators 06 Key features n Man aGeMent stateMents 08 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives statement n Annual Report 2009 16 Group Finance Directors statement http: www.
com annualreport2009 n BUsiness ReView 28 Group Executive Committee 30 Long-Term Savings 72 Banking 84 Short-Term Insurance 90 US Asset Management 98 Bermuda n RisK anD ResPonsiBilitY 102 Risk and capital management 136 Environment n Corporate site 129 Responsible business introduction 138 Society http: www.
com 132 Customers 140 Suppliers 134 Employees About Old Mutual Old Mutual Worldwide n GoVeRnanCe Investor Relations 142 Board of Directors Corporate Responsibility 144 Chairmans introduction Media Centre 145 Directors report on corporate governance and other matters 161 Remuneration report n FinanCials n MCeV 178 Statement of Directors responsibilities 335 Statement of Directors responsibilities 179 Independent auditors report 339 Independent auditors report 180 Consolidated income statement 340 Group Market Consistent Embedded Value Basis 181 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income supplementary information 182 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit after tax 344 Notes to the MCEV basis supplementary 183 Consolidated statement of financial position information 184 Consolidated statement of cash flows 186 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 190 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Forward-looking statements Acknowledgements This Report contains certain forward-looking statements with Designed and produced by Merchant www.
co. uk n shaReholDeR inFoRMation respect to Old Mutual plcs and its subsidiaries plans and expectations relating to their financial condition, performance This report has been printed on Symbol Freelife Satin 395 Shareholder information and results.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve and Arcoprint they are both elemental chlorine free and 396 Glossary risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and are certified according to the requirements of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The Symbol Freelife has a high circumstances that are beyond Old Mutual plcs control, including, among other things, UK domestic and general content of recycled material guaranteed 25%.
Both products are completely biodegradable and recyclable.
This year we economic and business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, policies have reduced the number of printed copies of the report, saving a total of nine tonnes of paper.
and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing and impact of other uncertainties or This Report is printed by an FSC, ISO 14001, and Carbon of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and regulations Neutral certified printer using vegetable oil based inks.
All processes in the production of this report are on one site.
in territories where Old Mutual plc or its subsidiaries operate.
As a result, Old Mutual plcs or its subsidiaries actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ The directors' report of Old Mutual plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 is set out on pages 1 to 160 materially from the plans and expectations set forth in such and includes the sections of the Annual Report referred to in these pages.
Old Mutual plc undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained Cover picture: We sponsor the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon in South Africa: long distance running in this Report or any other forward-looking statements that it reflects our philosophy of investing for the long-term.
Old Mutual Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No.
3591559 and as an external company in each of South Africa No.
E1 99 Registered Office: AnnuAl RepoRt 5th Floor Old Mutual Place & Accounts 2009 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.
