Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 A: Accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities other than those held by life assurance funds.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and IFRICs.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Details of standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2009 annual financial statements are described in section A24 and in the individual subsections.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial assets and liabilities, financial instruments designated as fair value through the income statement or as availableforsale, owneroccupied property and investment property.
Noncurrent assets and disposal groups heldforsale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments see note A5 n, in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be appropriate having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going concern.
Judgments made by the directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note A17.
The 31 December 2008 financial position has been restated to reduce both derivative financial assets and liabilities by an amount of 1,405 million and to increase both cash and cash equivalents and other liabilities by 305 million on a consistent basis to 31 December 2009, with a corresponding restatement made to the cash flows where applicable.
In addition certain comparative information including segmentation has been revised in accordance with changes to presentation made in the current year.
There was no impact on the consolidated net assets at 31 December 2008 as a result of the restatement.
The 31 December 2007 statement of financial position has not been presented on the basis that there were no changes required to that statement as a consequence of the 2008 restatements.
A2: Foreign currency translation a Foreign currency transactions The Groups presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
The Parent Company functional currency is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the initial recognition of the asset and liability and are not subsequently retranslated.
Exchange gains and losses on the translation and settlement during the period of foreign currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences for nonmonetary items are recognised in other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income when the changes in the fair value of the nonmonetary item are recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, and in the income statement if the changes in fair value of the nonmonetary item are recognised in the income statement.
b Foreign investments The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the yearend exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, cumulative unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the 190 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the cumulative effect of such gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004 were reset to zero.
A3: Group accounting a Subsidiary undertakings including special purpose entities Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Subsidiary undertakings include special purpose entities created to accomplish a narrow, welldefined objective, which may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entities, and where the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Company considers the existence and effect of potential voting rights currently exercisable or convertible when assessing whether it has control.
Special purpose entities that the Company controls by virtue of the Company retaining the majority of risks or benefits, for example interests in open ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar entities, are also included in the consolidated financial statements.
The group consolidates certain of its interests in open ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles collectively funds in the event that the group has power to govern the operations of a fund so as to obtain benefits from that fund, or for special purpose entities where the majority of benefits arising in a particular fund accrue to the group.
The latter condition is typically regarded as the case when the group owns through a group subsidiarys direct investment in a fund more than 50% of the shares or units in that fund.
The assets of consolidated funds are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate accounting policies for the assets in question.
The amounts due to the balance of the investors in these funds are reported as a liability under the balance sheet caption Third party interests in consolidated funds.
Such interests are not recorded as noncontrolling interests as they meet the liability classification requirement set out in paragraph 18 of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As stated in note A22, these liabilities are regarded as current, as they are repayable on demand, although it is not expected that they will be settled in a short time period.
The Group financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal or control ceasing.
The consolidated financial statements do not include the wholly owned company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company that is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control Skandia Liv in such a way as to access the benefits usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those benefits accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for equity financial instruments.
Intragroup balances and transactions, income and expenses and all profits and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
Unrealised losses are not eliminated to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
b Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Business combinations are accounted for at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
For all transactions subsequent to 31 December 2008 acquisitionrelated costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Prior to this date all acquisitionrelated costs were included in the cost of the acquisition.
Where appropriate, the cost of acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that have been classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition date, with the following exceptions: Deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes: Assets and liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Liabilities or equity instruments that relate to the replacement, by the Group, of an acquirees sharebased payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased Payment: and Old Mutual plc 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Where provisional amounts were reported these are adjusted during the measurement period see below.
Additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect any new information obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the date of acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as on that date.
The measurement period for initial accounting for a business combination is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group receives complete information about the facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date, subject to a maximum period of one year.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previouslyheld interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement, where such treatment would be appropriate if the interest were disposed of.
Noncontrolling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiary undertakings are identified and recorded separately from the Groups equity.
The interest of noncontrolling shareholders is initially measured either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis for the initial measurement of the non controlling interest is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, noncontrolling interests comprise the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition together with the noncontrolling interests share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
For acquisitions prior to 31 December 2008, noncontrolling interests were recorded at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The difference between the proceeds from the disposal of a subsidiary undertaking and its carrying amount as at the date of disposal, including the cumulative amount of any related exchange differences that are recognised in equity, is recognised in the Group income statement as the gain or loss on the disposal of the subsidiary undertaking.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary undertaking that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as transactions with equity holders as owners.
Any difference between the amount by which the noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised in equity and attributed to the Group.
Prior to 31 December 2008, such a difference would have been accounted for as an addition to goodwill.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1 FirstTime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated for either the provisions of the original 2003 or revised 2008 versions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and corresponding provisions of IAS 27 Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements revised 2008 business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2009 have not been restated.
c Associates and jointly controlled operations An associate is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the Group has significant influence but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and that is neither a subsidiary nor an investment in a joint venture.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in excess of 20%, but less than 50% of the voting rights.
A jointly controlled operation is a joint venture operated through a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement, whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over the activity.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates and jointly controlled operations are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The carrying amount of such investments is reduced to recognise any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where a Group enterprise transacts with an associate or jointly controlled operation of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate or jointly controlled operation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Investments in associates and jointly controlled operations that are held with a view to subsequent resale are accounted for as noncurrent assets heldforsale, and those held by policyholder life assurance funds are accounted for as financial assets fair valued through the income statement.
192 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued A4: Insurance and investment contracts Life assurance a Classification of contracts Contracts sold as life assurance with the exception of unitlinked assurance contracts are categorised into insurance contracts, contracts with a discretionary participation feature or investment contracts in accordance with the classification criteria set out in the following paragraphs.
For the Groups unitlinked assurance business, contracts are separated into an insurance component and an investment component known as unbundling, and each unbundled component is accounted for separately in accordance with the accounting policy for that component.
Unitlinked assurance contracts are savings contracts with a small or insignificant component of insurance risk.
Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment contracts.
Such contracts include savings and or investment contracts sold without life assurance protection.
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder are classified as insurance contracts.
Insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
Contracts accounted for as insurance contracts include life assurance contracts and savings contracts providing more than an insignificant amount of life assurance protection.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rate, security price, security index, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a nonfinancial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract.
Contracts with a discretionary participating feature are those under which the policyholder holds a contractual right to receive additional payments as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments.
These additional payments, the amount or timing of which is at the Groups discretion, represent a significant portion of the total contractual payments and are contractually based on 1 the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract, 2 realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the Group or 3 the profit or loss of the Group.
Investment contracts with discretionary participating features, which have no life assurance protection in the policy terms, are accounted for in the same manner as insurance contracts.
b Premiums on life assurance Premiums and annuity considerations receivable under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are stated gross of commission, and exclude taxes and levies.
Premiums in respect of linked insurance contracts are recognised when the liability is established.
Premiums in respect of other insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature are recognised when due for payment.
Outward reinsurance premiums are recognised when due for payment.
Amounts received under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature and unitlinked assurance contracts are recorded as deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities.
c Revenue on investment management service contracts Fees charged for investment management services provided in conjunction with an investment contract are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
Fees charged for investment management service contracts in our asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
d Claims paid on life assurance Claims paid under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature include maturities, annuities, surrenders, death and disability payments.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature and unitlinked assurance contracts are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities.
e Insurance contract provisions Insurance contract provisions for African businesses have been computed using a gross premium valuation method.
Provisions in respect of African business have been made in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis as set out in the guidelines issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa in Professional Guidance Note PGN 104 2001.
Under this guideline, provisions are valued using realistic expectations of future experience, with margins for prudence and deferral of profit emergence.
Old Mutual plc 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Provisions for investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are also computed using the gross premium valuation method in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis.
Surplus allocated to policyholders but not yet distributed related to these contracts is included as part of life assurance policyholder liabilities.
For the US business, the insurance contract provisions are calculated using the net premium method, based on assumptions as to investment yields, mortality, withdrawals and policyholder dividends.
For the term life products, the assumptions are set at the time the contracts are issued, whereas the assumptions are updated annually, based on experience for the annuity products.
Universal life and deferred annuity reserves are computed on the retrospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the cash value of the contracts.
Reserves on immediate annuities and guaranteed payments are computed on the prospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the present value of future benefit payments.
For other territories, the valuation bases adopted are in accordance with local actuarial practices and methodologies.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract are not separated and measured at fair value if the embedded derivative itself qualifies for recognition as an insurance contract.
In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and intangible assets is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability at discount rates appropriate to the business in question.
Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
The provision estimation techniques and assumptions are periodically reviewed, with any changes in estimates reflected in the income statement as they occur.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross insurance contract provisions and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain insurance contract provisions in the South Africa life assurance, and DAC and PVIF assets in the United States life assurance, in respect of owner occupied properties or availableforsale financial assets, in order for recognised unrealised gains or losses on those assets to affect the measurement of the insurance contract provisions, DAC or PVIF assets in the same way that recognised realised gains or losses do.
In respect of the South Africa life assurance, shadow accounting is applied to insurance contract provisions where the underlying measurement of the policyholder liability depends directly on the value of owneroccupied property and the unrealised gains and losses on such property, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The shadow accounting adjustment to insurance contract provisions is recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the unrealised gains or losses on owneroccupied property backing insurance contract provisions are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
In respect of the United States life assurance, shadow accounting adjustments are made to the amortisation of DAC and PVIF assets in respect of unrealised gains and losses on availableforsale financial assets to the extent that those unrealised gains and losses would impact the calculation of DAC or PVIF amortisation were they recognised in income.
The shadow DAC and PVIF amortisation charge is recognised in other comprehensive income in line with the unrealised gains and losses on the relevant financial assets until such time as those assets are sold or otherwise disposed of, at which point the accumulated amortisation recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled to the income statement in the same way as the unrealised gains or losses on those financial assets.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as insurance contracts.
Liability adequacy testing is performed to ensure that the carrying amount of the liability for financial guarantee contracts is sufficient.
f Investment contract liabilities Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups nonlinked business are recorded at amortised cost unless they are designated at fair value through the income statement in order to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or recognition inconsistency, for example where the corresponding assets are recorded at fair value through the income statement.
Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups linked business are recorded at fair value.
For such liabilities, including the deposit component of unbundled unitlinked assurance contracts, fair value is calculated as the account balance, which is the value of the units allocated to the policyholder, based on the bid price of the assets in the underlying fund adjusted for tax.
Investment contract liabilities measured at fair value are subject to a deposit floor such that the liability established cannot be less than the amount repayable on demand.
g Acquisition costs Acquisition costs for insurance contracts comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the sale of insurance contracts.
194 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued As the gross premium valuation method used in African territories to determine insurance contract provisions makes implicit allowance for the deferral of acquisition costs, no explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is recognised in the statement of financial position for the contracts issued in these areas.
For the US life insurance business, an explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is established in the statement of financial position.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period that profits on the related insurance policies are expected to emerge.
Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future profit margins.
Deferral of costs on insurance business in other territories is limited to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future margins.
h Costs incurred in acquiring investment management service contracts Incremental costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service contract are recognised as an asset if they can be identified separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Costs attributable to investment management service contracts in the asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
General insurance All classes of general insurance business are accounted for on an annual basis.
i Premiums on general insurance Premiums stated gross of commissions exclude taxes and levies and are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
The proportion of the premiums written relating to periods of risk after the reporting date is carried forward to subsequent accounting periods as unearned premiums, so that earned premiums relate to risks carried during the accounting period.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related direct insurance.
j Claims on general insurance Claims incurred comprise the settlement and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising during the year and adjustments to prior year claim provisions.
Outstanding claims comprise claims incurred up to, but not paid, at the end of the accounting period, whether reported or not.
Outstanding claims do not include any provision for possible future claims where the claims arise under contracts not in existence at the reporting date.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its claim liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and the unearned premium reserve is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events, and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are reflected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used and estimates made are reviewed regularly.
k Acquisition costs on general insurance Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
l Reinsurance The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversification of its risks.
Assets, liabilities and income and expense arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expense from the related insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets.
Rights under contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are accounted for as financial instruments.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for the premiums on the related insurance contracts.
For general insurance business, reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpensed portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
The net amounts paid to a reinsurer at the inception of a contract may be less than the reinsurance assets recognised by the Group in respect of its rights under such contracts.
Any difference between the premium due to the reinsurer and the reinsurance asset recognised is included in the income statement in the period in which the reinsurance premium is due.
Old Mutual plc 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The amounts recognised as reinsurance assets are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect of the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets include recoveries due from reinsurance companies in respect of claims paid.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each reporting date.
An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
A5: Financial instruments a Recognition and derecognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when, and only when: The contractual rights to the cash flows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group: or It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset: or It no longer controls the financial asset nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, regardless of whether it has transferred the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when and only when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any noncash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the time frame established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Otherwise such transactions are treated as derivatives until settlement occurs.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
b Initial measurement Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
d Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash flows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction, and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedge : or, 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
The Groups criteria for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted: The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation: The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis: and For cash flow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will carry profit and loss risk.
196 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that specific hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interestbearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost, as a result of previous hedge accounting, is amortised in the income statement from the date hedge accounting ceases, to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest method.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
e Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in financial and nonfinancial instruments, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a stand alone basis, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in the income statement.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through the income statement and measured at fair value.
f Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the statement of financial position, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with the income statement effect of the hedged item.
g Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as availableforsale is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash flows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interestbearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest basis.
Interest income and expense on financial instruments carried at fair value through the income statement is presented as part of interest income or expense.
h Noninterest revenue Noninterest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commission and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below: Fees and commission income Loan origination fees for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Fees and commission arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in the income statement when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction or service will flow to the Group.
i Financial assets Nonderivative financial assets are recorded as heldfortrading, designated as fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, heldtomaturity or availableforsale.
An analysis of the Groups statement of financial position, showing the categorisation of financial assets, together with financial liabilities is set out in note E1 a. Heldfortrading financial assets Heldfortrading financial assets are those that were either acquired for generating a profit from shortterm fluctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of shortterm profit taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
Old Mutual plc 197 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Financial assets designated as fair value through the income statement Financial assets that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract provisions or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholder funds.
All financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement, whether heldfortrading or designated, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a marketrelated rate at the reporting date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on observable market data where available at the reporting date.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are included in Investment return nonbanking or in Banking trading, investment and similar income as appropriate.
Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through the income statement is reported within Investment return nonbanking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return nonbanking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, when a dividend is declared.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are nonderivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classified by the Group as fair value through income statement or availableforsale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment writedowns.
Third party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
Heldtomaturity financial assets Financial assets with fixed maturity dates which are quoted in an active market and where management has both the intent and the ability to hold the asset to maturity are classified as heldtomaturity.
These assets are carried at amortised cost less any impairment writedowns.
Interest earned on heldtomaturity financial assets is reported within Investment return nonbanking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Availableforsale financial assets Financial assets intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices other than those designated fair value through income statement or as loans and receivables are classified as availableforsale.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Availableforsale financial assets are measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable or determined to be unreliable, the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market related rate at the reporting date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of availableforsale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When availableforsale financial assets are disposed the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from availableforsale financial assets.
When availableforsale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Interest earned on availableforsale financial assets is reported within Investment return nonbanking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return nonbanking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, as appropriate when a dividend is declared.
j Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as appropriate when considering the derecognition criteria contained within IAS 39.
The securities that are retained in the financial statements are reflected as trading or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a predetermined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counter parties are retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
198 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued k Impairments of financial assets Indicators of impairment A provision for impairment is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover all amounts relating to the financial asset.
Observable data that could come to the attention of the Group that could lead to a provision for impairment to be made includes: significant financial difficulty of the counter party: a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: the Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the counter partys financial difficulty, grants to the counter party a concession that the Group would not otherwise consider: it becoming probable that the counter party will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: or observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets, including: adverse changes in the payment status of counter parties in the group of financial assets: or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group of financial assets.
In addition, for an availableforsale financial asset, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
Financial assets at amortised cost The amount of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the value of expected cash flows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at initial recognition.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the reporting date, but these components have not yet been specifically identified.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is writtenoff against the related impairment provision.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the writedown, the release of the impairment provision is credited to the income statement.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
Availableforsale financial assets The amount of the impairment loss of an availableforsale financial asset is the cumulative loss that has been recognised in other comprehensive income, being the difference between the acquisition cost and the assets current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in the income statement.
For availableforsale debt securities, fair value is determined as is the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of interest.
All such impairments are recognised in the income statement.
The release of an impairment allowance in respect of a debt instrument categorised as availableforsale is credited to the income statement, the release in respect of an equity instrument categorised as availablefor sale is credited to the availableforsale reserve within equity.
l Financial liabilities other than investment contracts and derivatives Nonderivative financial liabilities, including borrowed funds, amounts owed to depositors and liabilities under acceptances, are recorded as heldfortrading, designated as fair value through the income statement or as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis and are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
For financial liabilities recorded at fair value and which contain a demand feature, the fair value of the liability is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Financial liabilities categorised at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally represented by the transaction price, less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Conversion options included within financial liabilities are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent nonconvertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
Old Mutual plc 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
m Reclassifications of financial assets A nonderivative financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was required to be categorised as heldfortrading on the basis that it was held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term may be reclassified out of the fair value through income statement category if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
If a financial asset is so reclassified, it is reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification.
Any gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss is not reversed.
The fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Other nonderivative financial assets that were required to be categorised as heldfortrading at initial recognition may be reclassified out of the fair value through income statement category in rare circumstances.
Measurement of the asset after reclassification depends on the subsequent categorisation.
A nonderivative financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was designated as availableforsale may be reclassified out of the availableforsale category to the loans and receivables category if it meets the loans and receivables definition at the date of reclassification and if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
In the case of a financial asset with a fixed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the availableforsale reserve in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life using the effective interest method together with any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount.
In the case of a financial asset that does not have a fixed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the availableforsale reserve in equity is recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset is sold or otherwise disposed of.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the amendments, issued in October 2008 to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relating to the reclassification of financial assets, certain qualifying financial assets held by the Group during the period up to and including 1 July 2008 were reclassified as of that date and based on the fair value at that date.
Details of all reclassifications of financial assets in accordance with the above accounting policies are shown in note E1 a. n Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are recorded at cost.
Impairments of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other nonfinancial assets see section A 8.
A6: Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in which case it is correspondingly recognised in other comprehensive income.
a Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
b Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided using the temporary difference method.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred taxation is charged to the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, or a business combination that is an acquisition.
The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available, against which the unutilised tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be used.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised.
In certain circumstances, as permitted by accounting guidance, deferred tax balances are not recognised.
In particular where the liability relates to the initial recognition of goodwill, or transactions that are not a business combination and at the time of their occurrence affect neither accounting or taxable profit.
Note F8 includes further detail of circumstances in which the Group does not recognise temporary differences.
A7: Intangible assets a Goodwill and goodwill impairment Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an asset at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previouslyheld equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition date amounts 200 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previouslyheld equity interest if any, this excess is recognised immediately in the income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least once annually.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of any profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is allocated to one or more cashgenerating units CGUs, being the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
The directors annually test for impairment of each CGU or group of CGUs containing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, at a level that is no larger than that of the Groups identified operating segments for the purposes of segment reporting.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU or group of CGUs exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
b Present value of acquired inforce for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired inforce for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated statement of financial position as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash flows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired.
This is calculated by performing a cash flow projection of the associated life assurance fund and book of inforce policies in order to estimate future after tax profits attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These profits are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash flows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected profit recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is recalculated at each reporting date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
c Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash flows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straightline basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Distribution channels 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Brand 15 20 years The estimated life is reevaluated on a regular basis.
d Internally developed software Internally developed software is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Such assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software is recognised in the statement of financial position if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the software will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised subject to meeting specific criteria, set out in the relevant accounting guidance.
The main criteria being that future economic benefits can be identified as a result of the development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between two and five years.
e Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Old Mutual plc 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued A8: Impairment all assets other than goodwill, deferred tax assets and financial assets The Group assesses all assets other than goodwill, deferred tax assets and financial assets on an ongoing basis for indications of impairment or whether a previously recognised impairment loss should be reversed.
If such indicators are found to exist, then detailed impairment testing is carried out.
Impairments where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount and the reversal of previously recognised impairments are recognised in the income statement.
A9: Property, plant and equipment a Owned assets Owneroccupied property is stated at revalued amounts, being fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and equipment, principally computer equipment, motor vehicles, fixtures and furniture, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1 Firsttime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, individual terms of property, plant and equipment held at 1 January 2004 were measured at fair value, which was deemed to be their cost at that date.
b Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is measurable and will result in probable future economic benefits.
Expenditure incurred to replace a separate component of an item of owneroccupied property, plant and equipment is capitalised to the cost of the item of owneroccupied property, plant and equipment and the component replaced is derecognised.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense when incurred.
c Revaluation of owneroccupied property Owneroccupied property is valued on the same basis as investment property.
When an individual property is revalued, any increase in its carrying amount as a result of the revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same property previously recognised as an expense in the income statement.
When the value of an individual property is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease is charged against any related credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect of that property.
However, to the extent that it exceeds any surplus, it is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
d Derecognition On derecognition of an owneroccupied property or item of plant and equipment, any gain or loss on disposal, determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement in the period of the derecognition.
In the case of owneroccupied property, any surplus in the revaluation reserve in respect of the individual property is transferred directly to retained earnings.
e Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the estimated useful lives of items of owneroccupied property, plant and equipment that are accounted for separately.
In the case of owneroccupied property, any accumulated depreciation at revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the property concerned and the net amount restated to the revalued amount.
Subsequent depreciation charges are adjusted based on the revalued amount for each property.
Any difference between the depreciation charge on the revalued amount and that which would have been charged under historic cost is transferred, net of any related deferred tax, between the revaluation reserve and retained earnings as the property is utilised.
The maximum estimated useful lives are as follows: Computer equipment 5 years Computer software 3 years Motor vehicles 6 years Fixtures and furniture 10 years Leasehold property 20 years Freehold property 50 years f Leases Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged against income on a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
202 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Finance leases Lease agreements where the Group substantially accepts the risks and rewards of the ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the outstanding balance of the liability.
Finance lease obligations, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period according to the effective interest method.
Where applicable, assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Where assets are leased out under a finance lease arrangement, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
Initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement of the receivable.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Assets leased under operating leases Assets leased out under operating leases are included under property, plant and equipment in the statement of financial position.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the rental income.
Leased assets are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent with similar assets.
Rental income net of any incentives given to lessees is recognised on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
When another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the users benefit, then that method is used.
A10: Investment properties Investment property is real estate held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation.
It does not include real estate held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Internal professional valuers perform valuations annually.
For practical reasons, valuations are carried out on a cyclical basis over a twelvemonth period due to the large number of properties involved.
External valuations are obtained once every three years on a cyclical basis.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and reporting date an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to reflect any material changes in value.
The valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows.
Vacant land, land holdings and residential flats are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
Near vacant properties are valued at land value less the estimated cost of demolition.
Surpluses and deficits arising from changes in fair value are reflected in the income statement.
For properties reclassified during the year from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, any revaluation gain arising is initially recognised in the income statement to the extent that impairment losses were previously recognised.
Any residual excess is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation deficits are recognised in the revaluation reserve to the extent of previously recognised gains and any residual deficit is accounted for in the income statement.
Investment properties that are reclassified to owneroccupied property are revalued at the date of transfer, with any difference being taken to the income statement.
A11: Finance costs Finance costs relate to the Groups borrowed funds that are directly controlled by, or managed on behalf of, Old Mutual plc.
These include interest payable, and gains and losses on revaluation of these funds and on those derivative instruments which are used to hedge these funds.
A12: Noncurrent assets heldforsale and discontinued operations Noncurrent assets and disposal groups classified as heldforsale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
Where the proceeds of disposal are expected to exceed the book value of the related net assets no impairment loss is recognised on the reclassifications of assets as heldforsale.
Noncurrent assets and disposal groups are classified as heldforsale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is defined as a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as heldforsale and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Old Mutual plc 203 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued When a noncurrent asset or disposal group ceases to be classified as heldforsale, the individual assets and liabilities cease to be shown separately in the statement of financial position at the end of the year in which the classification changes.
If the line of business was previously presented as a discontinued operation and subsequently ceases to be classified as heldforsale the income statement and cash flows of the comparative period are restated to show that line of business as a continuing operation.
A13: Pension plans and retirement benefits Defined benefit and defined contribution schemes have been established for eligible employees of the Group with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The projected unit credit method is used to determine the defined benefit obligations based on actuarial assessments, which incorporate not only the pension obligations known on the reporting date but also information relevant to their expected future development.
The discount rates used are determined based on the yields for investment grade corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are recognised in the income statement over a period of time to the extent that the net cumulative unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the previous financial year exceed 10% of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or 10% of the present value of the gross defined benefit obligations before deducting plan assets in the scheme at that date.
Such actuarial gains and losses are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the scheme.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 were recognised in equity at that date.
Where the corridor calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, Group companies make provision for post retirement medical and housing benefits for eligible employees.
Nonpension post retirement benefits are accounted for according to their nature, either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans.
The expected costs of post retirement benefits that are defined benefit plans in nature are accounted for in the same manner as for defined benefit pension plans.
A14: Sharebased payments a Equitysettled sharebased payment transactions with employees The services received in an equitysettled transaction with employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value of those equity instruments is measured at grant date.
If the equity instruments granted vest immediately and the employee is not required to complete a specified period of service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those instruments, the services received are recognised in full on grant date in the income statement for the period, with a corresponding increase reflected directly in equity.
Where the equity instruments do not vest until the employee has completed a specified period of service, it is assumed that the services rendered by the employee, as consideration for those equity instruments, will be received in the future, during the vesting period.
These services are accounted for in the income statement as they are rendered during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase recognised directly in equity.
In the Parent Company, the fair value of equity instruments granted by the company to the employees of subsidiary undertakings is recorded as an additional investment in the relevant subsidiary with credit recorded in equity.
b Cashsettled sharebased payment transactions with employees The services received in cashsettled transactions with employees and the liability to pay for those services, are recognised at fair value as the employee renders services.
Until the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
c Measurement of fair value of equity instruments granted The equity instruments granted by the Group are measured at fair value at the measurement date using standard option pricing valuation models.
The valuation technique is consistent with generally acceptable valuation methodologies for pricing financial instruments, and incorporates all factors and assumptions that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price of the equity instruments.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the provisions of this accounting policy have not been applied to equitysettled grants made on or before 7 November 2002, or awards granted after that date but which had vested prior to 1 January 2005.
204 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued A15: Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and highly liquid shortterm funds, mandatory reserve deposits held with central banks, cash held in investment portfolios awaiting reinvestment and cash and cash equivalents subject to the consolidation of funds.
A16: Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur, and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the effect of discounting is material, provisions are discounted and the discount rate used is a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Specific policies: A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract: A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the Group has approved a detailed formal plan and raised a valid expectation among those parties directly affected, that the plan will be carried out either by having begun implementation or by publicly announcing the plans main features: and No provision is made for future operating costs or losses.
A17: Critical accounting estimates and judgments Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgments or assessments.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates are life insurance contract provisions, determination of the fair value for financial assets and liabilities, impairment charges, present values of acquired inforce for insurance and investment contract business, other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, deferred acquisition costs, deferred taxes and the non consolidation of the Groups wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking.
Insurance contract accounting is discussed in note A4, and further detail of the key assumptions made in determining insurance contract provisions is included in note E8.
Accounting for deferred acquisition cost assets is also discussed in note A4.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined in accordance with the policies set out in note A5.
They are valued on the basis of quoted prices in active markets in so far as this is possible.
In the current market environment, such price information is typically not available for all instruments and the Group therefore uses internal models and valuation techniques to measure such instruments.
These techniques use market observable inputs where available, derived from similar assets and liabilities in similar and active markets, from recent transaction prices for comparable items or from other observable market data.
For positions where observable reference data are not available for some or all parameters the Group estimates the nonmarket observable inputs used in its valuation models.
Fair values of certain financial instruments including overthecounter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads and volatility factors.
Accounting for present values of acquired inforce insurance and investment contract business, together with other intangibles acquired as part of a business combination are discussed in note A7.
Assets are subject to regular impairment reviews as required.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement in the period in which they occur.
The Groups policy in relation to impairment testing in respect of Goodwill is detailed in note A7.
The policy in respect of investment securities and purchased loans and receivables is described in note A5.
The accounting policy for deferred tax is detailed in note A6.
The Group does not consolidate its wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking, Skandia Liv.
For more information refer to the Subsidiary Undertakings including Special Purpose Entities accounting policy, note A3 a. A18: Segment reporting The Groups results are analysed and reported consistent with the way that management and the Board of Directors considers information when making operating decisions and the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by management and the Board of Directors.
The operating segments are Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe, Wealth Management and US Life collectively being the newly formed Long Term Savings plus Nedbank, Mutual & Federal M&F, US Asset Management and Other operating segments comprising the Group head office functions.
The Bermuda segment is treated as a noncore operation.
The above reported segments have been revised during the year to reflect the change in the way that management and the Board of Directors consider information, with the comparative information having been revised to report on a consistent basis to the amended structure.
There are four principal business activities from which the Group generates revenues.
These are life assurance premium income, asset management business fee and commission income, banking banking interest receivable and general insurance premium income.
The revenues generated in each reported segment can be seen in the analysis of profits and losses in note B.
Old Mutual plc 205 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The information reflected in note B reflects the measures of profit and loss, assets and liabilities for each operating segment as regularly provided to management and the Board of Directors.
There are no differences between the measurement of the assets and liabilities reflected in the primary statements and that reported for the segments.
A reconciliation between the segment revenues and expenses and the Groups revenues and expenses is shown in note B.
In line with internal reporting, assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where appropriate and where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for intersegment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
Given the nature of the operations, there are no major customers within any of the segments.
Reclassifications of comparative segment information have been made to align segment information to the Groups revised management reporting structure described above.
There was no impact on net profit or net assets.
A19: Treasury shares Upon consolidation, the statement of financial position and income statement are adjusted for own shares held in policyholder funds, Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOPs, and Black Economic Empowerment trusts consolidated within the Groups financial statements.
Own shares are deducted from equity.
On purchase, the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from equity.
Subsequently, any proceeds from the sale or cancellation of own equity instruments are recognised in equity.
Income in relation to own shares, both dividends received and unrealised gains and losses, are eliminated before stating the profit for the year.
In calculating basic earnings per share, the exclusion of income in respect of own shares from the income statement requires the corresponding exclusion of own shares from the weighted average number of shares.
When calculating diluted earnings per share, the number of shares included in the weighted average reflects the potential issue in respect of the own shares held.
A20: Share capital Ordinary and preference share capital including perpetual preferred callable securities are classified as equity if they are nonredeemable by the shareholder and any dividends are discretionary and coupon payments are recognised as distributions within equity.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Coupon payments thereon are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
A21: Dividends Dividends payable to holders of equity instruments are recognised in the period in which they are authorised or approved.
Interim dividends payable to holders of the Groups ordinary share capital are authorised by the directors of the Parent Company, the final dividend typically requires shareholder approval.
A22: Liquidity analysis of the statement of financial position The Groups statement in financial position is in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following analysis is given to describe how statement of financial position lines are categorised between current and noncurrent balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following statement of financial position captions are generally classified as current cash and cash equivalents, noncurrent assets held forsale, client indebtedness for acceptances, current tax receivable, third party interests in the consolidation of funds, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and noncurrent liabilities heldforsale.
The following balances are generally classified as noncurrent goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with central banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and jointly controlled operations, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and noncurrent portions reinsurers shares of life assurance and general insurance business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, life assurance and general insurance policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and noncurrent portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
A23: Funds under management Funds under management represents a measure of the value of customer assets managed by the Groups insurance and asset management operating segments.
Accounting treatment of funds under management depends on the nature of the contractual relationship with the customer and generally conforms to the following basic principles: Contracts with customers that involve a policy of insurance between the customer and the insurer are accounted for onbalance sheet and follow the accounting policies set out in A4.
For such contracts, there is a legal transfer of funds between the customer and the insurer, and 206 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued accounting recognition follows this contractual form, in accordance with insurance practice under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts IFRS 4.
The amount due to the policyholder is accounted for as a liability generally in life assurance policyholder liabilities, the funds received are invested by the insurer in financial and other assets, which are recorded onbalance sheet.
Customer funds related to asset investment management contracts with the investor, where the investor only has a service relationship with the Group and where the contractual terms do not result in a transfer of ownership of the investors assets to the insurer or asset manager, are not recognised in the Groups statement of financial position but are only included as part of the funds under management measure.
The Group has no legal entitlement to the investors assets, nor any requirement to recognise a liability to the investor.
Note B5 on page 216 provides an analysis of funds under management.
The lines life assurance policyholder funds and shareholder funds represent onbalance sheet funds under management, whereas the lines unit trusts and mutual funds and third party client funds are offbalance sheet.
A24: Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2009 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been adopted in these financial statements: IFRS 2 Sharebased payment amendments effective 1 January 2010.
The Group has earlyadopted the amendments to IFRS 2 Sharebased Payment, Group Cashsettled Sharebased Payment Transactions issued in June 2009.
These amendments introduce guidance on the treatment of group cashsettled sharebased payment arrangements and consolidate the previous requirements set out in IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
There were no material impacts arising from the implementation of this amendment.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 effective 1 July 2009.
The Group has earlyadopted the provisions of the revised version of IFRS 3 Business Combinations together with the corresponding amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements in these financial statements.
Mandatory adoption would have been required for the first time in the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
No retrospective application of the standards is required.
Details of the accounting policy for business combinations are given in A3.
IFRS 5 Noncurrent Assets HeldForSale and Discontinued Operations consequential amendment effective 1 July 2009.
The Group has early adopted the consequential amendment clarifying that assets and liabilities of a subsidiary should be classified as held for sale if the Group is committed to a plan involving loss of control, regardless of whether the Group will retain a noncontrolling interest after the sale.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2009.
The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments issued in March 2009.
The amendments principally require additional disclosures about the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
See note E1 for the additional disclosures.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 effective 1 January 2009.
The Group has adopted the provisions of the revised version of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements issued in 2007, effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The principal change arising from the adoption of the standard is the inclusion of a new statement, a consolidated statement of comprehensive income, separately from the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
There were no impacts on the Groups results or net assets as a result of the introduction of the revised standard.
IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate effective 1 January 2009.
The amendment changes the recognition principle in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in the entitys own financial statements where those dividends are out of preacquisition reserves.
Under the amendment, dividends out of preacquisition reserves are accounted for in the income statement rather than against the cost of investment.
The amendment applies to accounting for investments by the Parent Company.
There were no impacts in the Parent Companys financial statements.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures consequential amendments effective 1 July 2009 arising from the changes to IFRS 3 and IAS 27.
The Group has earlyadopted the consequential amendments to IAS 28 and IAS 31 arising as a result of the early adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 27 revised 2008.
There were no material impacts arising from the implementation of these amendments.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendments in respect of puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation, effective 1 January 2009.
The Group has adopted the amendments relating to the statement of financial position classification of puttable instruments and obligations arising only on liquidation.
The amendments had no impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective 1 July 2009.
The Group has early adopted amendments made to clarify two hedge accounting issues: i inflation in a financial hedged item and ii a one sided risk in a hedged item.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective 1 January 2009.
The Group has adopted the provisions of IFRIC 13, which addresses accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits to customers who buy other goods or services.
Specifically, they explain how entities should account for their obligations to provide free or discounted goods or services awards to customers who redeem award credits.
The amendments had an insignificant impact in the financial statements of Nedbank.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IASB effective date 1 October 2008: EU: 1 July 2009.
The Group has adopted the provisions of IFRIC 16 relating to the accounting for hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The interpretation had no impact on the Groups financial statements.
Old Mutual plc 207 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued IFRIC 17 Distributions of Noncash Assets to Owners effective 1 July 2009.
The interpretation deals with the recognition and measurement principles for noncash distributions to owners.
A25: Standards and interpretations that have previously been early adopted in the Groups annual financial statements The following standards and interpretations have been previously early adopted in the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 was adopted in the Groups 2007 financial statements.
IFRS 8 replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The key change from IAS 14 is to require segment information to be presented based on internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker.
The amount of each operating segment item reported is the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance.
IFRS 2 Sharebased Payment amendment relating to vesting conditions and cancellations, effective 1 January 2009 was adopted in the Groups 2008 financial statements.
The amendments clarify that vesting conditions are performance conditions and service conditions only.
Other features of a sharebased transactions are not vesting conditions.
There were no impacts arising from the adoption of this amendment.
IFRIC14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective 1 January 2008.
The amendment had no impact on the financial statements.
A26: Future standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations not early adopted in the 2009 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, although the EU has not yet endorsed all of them.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment in respect of accounting for rights issues, effective 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group.
The amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013 is a new standard on financial instruments that will eventually replace IAS 39.
The published standard introduces changes to the current IAS 39 rules for classification and measurement of financial assets.
Under IFRS 9 there will be two measurement bases for financial assets, amortised cost and fair value.
Financial assets at fair value will be recorded at fair value through the income statement with a limited opportunity to record changes in fair value of certain equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
The main impact for the group will be the reclassification of the US Life business bond portfolios from available forsale fair value changes through other comprehensive income to amortised cost or fair value through the income statement.
Financial liabilities are excluded from the scope of the standard.
The group is currently assessing the full impacts of the standard on its financial statements.
The standard has not yet to be endorsed by the EU.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 19 clarifies the treatment of transactions whereby equity instruments are issued in order to extinguish all or part of a financial liability.
IFRIC 19, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU, is not expected to have any impact on the Groups annual financial statements.
208 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information B1: Basis of segmentation The Groups core operations are Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe, Wealth Management and US Life collectively Long Term Savings, Nedbank, Mutual & Federal, US Asset Management and Other operating segments comprising the Group head office functions.
The Bermuda operating segment is regarded as non core.
This represents a change in structure from that reported in the previous financial year end is consistent with the revised way that management and the Board of Directors considers information when making operating decisions and is the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by management and the Board of Directors.
Comparative segment information has been changed accordingly.
The Group generates revenue from four principal business activities: life assurance, asset management, banking and general insurance.
The types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues are as follows: Core operations Emerging Markets life assurance and asset management Nordic life assurance, asset management and banking Retail Europe life assurance and asset management Wealth Management life assurance and asset management US Life life assurance Nedbank banking and asset management Mutual & Federal general insurance US Asset Management asset management Other operating segments Non core operations Bermuda life assurance Adjusted operating profit is one of the key measures reported to the Groups management and Board of Directors for their consideration in the allocation of resources to and the review of performance of the segments.
The Group utilises additional measures to assess the performance of each of the segments, in particular the level of funds under management.
Additional performance measures considered by management and the Board of Directors in assessing the performance of the segments can be found in the Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value information presented on pages 340 to 389.
In the analysis that follows, consolidation adjustments include the elimination of intersegment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities together with the impacts of the consolidation of the Groups interest in unit trusts, mutual funds and similar entities.
Old Mutual plc 209 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B2: Adjusted operating profit statement segment information year ended 31 December 2009 Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,946 109 31 315 800 Outward reinsurance 56 5 8 81 102 Net earned premiums 1,890 104 23 234 698 Investment return non-banking 2,636 2,035 564 4,997 654 Banking interest and similar income 157 Banking trading, investment and similar income Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 305 190 189 746 Other income 65 6 24 6 Inter-segment revenues 55 32 10 27 Total revenues 4,951 2,524 786 6,028 1,358 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 2,551 72 37 255 1,283 Reinsurance recoveries 76 2 5 46 128 Net claims and benefits incurred 2,475 70 32 209 1,155 1,040 1,972 554 4,775 Change in investment contract liabilities Losses on loans and advances 5 1 Finance costs Banking interest payable and similar expenses 70 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 184 53 79 394 78 Other operating and administrative expenses 768 215 96 380 67 Goodwill impairment Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 37 39 116 Inter-segment expenses 5 38 2 48 9 Total expenses 4,509 2,462 764 5,922 1,309 Share of associated undertakings profit loss after tax 4 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating profit loss before tax and non-controlling interests 446 62 22 106 49 Tax expense 130 9 8 20 9 Non-controlling interests 2 Adjusted operating profit loss after tax and non-controlling interests 314 71 14 86 40 Adjusting items net of tax and non-controlling interests 200 4 228 225 120 Profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 114 67 214 139 80 Of the total revenues, excluding intercompany revenues, 5,544 million was generated in UK 2008: 5,826 million loss, 3,938 million in rest of Europe 2008: 3,045 million loss, 10,084 million in South Africa 2008: 6,676 million, 2,201 million in the United States 2008: 2,194 million and 81 million relates to Other operating segments 2008: 48 million.
210 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Other Adjusted Adjusting Non core Total Long operating Consolidation operating items operations IFRS Income Term Savings Nedbank M&F USAM segments adjustments profit Note C1 Bermuda statement 3,201 612 3,813 7 3,820 252 117 369 369 2,949 495 3,444 7 3,451 10,886 58 13 91 509 11,557 425 484 11,616 157 3,832 3,989 3,989 168 168 168 1,430 663 22 429 6 2,538 116 2,422 101 70 1 7 1 180 22 202 124 31 29 6 21 251 40 40 15,647 4,764 605 455 112 253 21,836 541 553 21,848 4,198 412 4,610 459 5,069 257 72 329 1 328 3,941 340 4,281 460 4,741 8,341 8,341 4 8,345 6 505 511 511 104 104 218 322 70 2,557 2,627 2,627 788 2 106 18 12 926 167 47 806 1,526 1,167 64 354 84 22 3,217 97 19 3,139 266 266 470 470 470 326 326 192 192 192 102 65 25 58 251 1 1 14,966 4,296 535 372 246 253 20,668 354 531 21,553 4 2 4 2 2 50 50 685 470 70 83 138 1,170 945 22 247 158 96 15 19 4 292 84 11 365 2 193 16 34 245 23 222 525 181 39 64 176 633 1,006 33 340 777 15 3 241 1,006 1,006 252 196 39 61 417 373 33 340 Old Mutual plc 211 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B2: Adjusted operating profit statement segment information year ended 31 December 2008 Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,687 92 22 186 1,269 Outward reinsurance 48 4 7 78 106 Net earned premiums 1,639 88 15 108 1,163 Investment return non-banking 420 2,317 997 6,610 211 Banking interest and similar income 266 Banking trading, investment and similar income 24 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 252 184 178 775 Other income 98 20 1 14 3 Inter-segment revenues 237 104 18 108 Total revenues 1,806 1,631 785 5,605 1,377 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 721 68 26 94 1,478 Reinsurance recoveries 42 4 2 34 106 Net claims and benefits incurred 679 64 24 60 1,372 Change in investment contract liabilities 204 2,390 1,011 6,442 Losses on loans and advances 4 Finance costs Banking interest payable and similar expenses 183 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 174 49 72 401 158 Other operating and administrative expenses 563 193 82 388 68 Goodwill impairment Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 6 52 1 283 Inter-segment expenses 188 126 18 121 9 Total expenses 1,394 1,719 814 5,755 1,607 Share of associated undertakings profit loss after tax 3 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating profit loss before tax and non-controlling interests 415 88 29 150 230 Tax expense 138 11 10 57 76 Non-controlling interests 5 Adjusted operating profit loss after tax and non-controlling interests 272 77 19 93 154 Adjusting items net of tax and non-controlling interests 147 122 28 50 341 Profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 419 45 9 143 495 212 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Other Adjusting Non core Total Long operating Consolidation Adjusted items operations IFRS Income Term Savings Nedbank M&F USAM segments adjustments operating profit Note C1 Bermuda statement 3,256 570 3,826 1,330 5,156 243 91 334 1 335 3,013 479 3,492 1,329 4,821 10,133 56 3 94 713 10,699 108 771 11,578 266 3,793 4,059 4,059 24 138 162 162 1,389 533 16 473 1 2,410 97 2,313 136 85 17 13 251 19 270 467 19 26 8 66 586 4,838 4,568 577 495 160 1,287 325 205 577 47 2,387 401 2,788 822 3,610 188 72 260 2 262 2,199 329 2,528 820 3,348 10,047 10,047 4 10,051 4 315 319 319 140 140 532 392 183 2,684 2,867 14 2,853 854 101 10 44 1,009 178 106 937 1,294 928 59 388 38 34 2,741 77 16 2,834 74 74 779 779 779 361 361 236 236 236 462 71 12 37 586 4 4 5,287 3,998 501 398 215 1,287 1,462 24 942 496 3 5 9 1 1 53 53 452 575 76 97 64 1,136 176 365 595 140 123 17 2 192 86 174 88 5 227 19 21 272 30 242 307 225 40 99 107 778 28 365 441 294 29 49 1 341 28 28 13 254 9 100 448 806 365 441 Old Mutual plc 213 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B3: Gross earned premiums m Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Life assurance insurance contracts 1,287 109 31 315 800 Life assurance investment contracts with discretionary participation features 659 General insurance Gross earned premiums 1,946 109 31 315 800 Life assurance other investment contracts recognised as deposits 2,726 1,199 733 4,906 171 Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2008 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Life assurance insurance contracts 1,163 92 22 186 1,269 Life assurance investment contracts with discretionary participation features 524 General insurance Gross earned premiums 1,687 92 22 186 1,269 Life assurance other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,409 976 690 5,236 115 B4: Impairments of financial assets Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Nordic 5 5 US Life 248 384 Total Long Term Savings 253 389 Nedbank 504 315 Bermuda 13 30 Total 770 734 214 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Non core Total Long Term Total core operations Savings Nedbank M&F USAM operations Bermuda Total 2,542 2,542 7 2,549 659 659 659 612 612 612 3,201 612 3,813 7 3,820 9,735 9,735 8 9,743 Non core Total Long Term Total core operations Savings Nedbank M&F USAM operations Bermuda Total 2,732 2,732 1,330 4,062 524 524 524 570 570 570 3,256 570 3,826 1,330 5,156 8,426 8,426 115 8,541 Old Mutual plc 215 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B5: Funds under management m Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth As at 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Life assurance policyholder funds 25,454 9,221 3,569 34,721 6,689 Unit trusts and mutual funds 7,686 1,428 391 11,308 Third party client funds 8,229 Total client funds under management 41,369 10,649 3,960 46,029 6,689 Shareholder funds 2,130 360 210 830 Total funds under management 43,499 11,009 4,170 46,859 6,689 Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth As at 31 December 2008 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Life assurance policyholder funds 20,599 6,605 2,881 29,200 241 Unit trusts and mutual funds 7,678 1,000 416 8,777 Third party client funds 10,325 Total client funds under management 38,602 7,605 3,297 37,977 241 Shareholder funds 1,672 418 213 943 Total funds under management 40,274 8,023 3,510 38,920 241 216 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Non core Total Total core operations Long Term Savings Nedbank M&F USAM operations Bermuda Total 79,654 658 6,789 87,101 2,913 90,014 20,813 3,775 4,095 28,683 28,683 8,229 3,800 150,423 162,452 162,452 108,696 8,233 161,307 278,236 2,913 281,149 3,530 162 169 3,861 3,861 112,226 8,233 162 161,476 282,097 2,913 285,010 Non core Total Total core operations Long Term Savings Nedbank M&F USAM operations Bermuda Total 59,526 425 13,623 73,574 2,401 75,975 17,871 2,617 3,127 23,615 23,615 10,325 3,375 147,956 161,656 161,656 87,722 6,417 164,706 258,845 2,401 261,246 3,246 145 177 3,568 3,568 90,968 6,417 145 164,883 262,413 2,401 264,814 Old Mutual plc 217 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2009 Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth At 31 December 2009 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Assets F1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 106 1,035 563 1,602 94 Goodwill 91 219 204 656 Present value of acquired in-force business 624 265 671 89 Software development 6 1 3 35 5 9 191 91 240 Other intangibles Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks F2 Property, plant and equipment 336 7 4 19 1 F3 Investment property 1,518 2 F8 Deferred tax assets 54 108 17 23 183 G5 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 20 2 F4 Deferred acquisition costs 123 49 275 778 1,671 Insurance contracts 2 50 1,671 Investment contracts 107 47 271 654 Asset management 16 4 74 E8 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 11 10 6 772 475 Insurance contracts 11 7 4 45 450 Unit-Linked investment contracts and similar contracts 717 3 2 10 25 Outstanding claims E8 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities E8 Deposits held with reinsurers 108 35 E3 Loans and advances 340 4,209 2 148 54 Policyholder loans 58 2 2 148 53 Other loans and advances 282 4,207 1 E4 Investments and securities 27,603 10,836 3,693 35,120 10,045 Government and  securities 3,586 150 60 251 302 Listed other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 1,825 1,453 53 6,766 Unlisted other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 2,989 2 104 2,439 Listed equity securities 8,854 1 10 Unlisted equity securities 1,223 15 Listed pooled investments 457 547 437 3 6,123 8,670 3,568 34,327 16 Unlisted pooled investments Shortterm funds and securities treated as investments 2,543 1 519 Other securities 3 Current tax receivable 4 4 16 86 Client indebtedness for acceptances F5 Trade, other receivables and other assets 630 155 58 232 213 E6 Derivative financial instruments assets 327 9 187 Cash and cash equivalents 189 344 81 278 4 Non-current assets held-for-sale Inter-segment assets 1,352 59 23 277 74 Total assets 32,613 16,935 4,738 39,337 13,036 218 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Total Long Term Other operating Consolidation Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Bermuda segments adjustments Total 3,400 543 30 1,171 2 13 5,159 1,170 393 11 1,142 13 2,729 1,649 1,649 50 150 19 1 2 222 531 28 559 882 882 367 417 23 19 2 828 1,520 18 221 1,759 385 24 6 147 8 570 22 82 7 24 135 2,896 2 17 29 194 3,138 1,723 17 194 1,934 1,079 1,079 94 2 29 125 1,274 22 1,296 517 22 539 717 717 40 40 120 120 143 3 146 4,753 37,638 2 42,393 263 263 4,490 37,638 2 42,130 87,297 5,501 425 162 2,942 43 2,091 98,461 4,349 2,044 1,775 8,168 10,097 2,532 2 461 1,729 14,821 5,534 4 167 5,705 8,865 41 87 9,503 18,496 1,238 209 6 37 1,490 1,444 675 41 122 2,059 1,400 5,741 52,704 40 12,678 40,066 3,063 285 218 293 3,859 3 43 69 115 110 51 8 169 170 170 1,288 432 96 126 878 111 120 3,051 523 1,067 154 802 2,546 896 660 79 173 32 425 717 2,982 1 1 1,785 148 48 1 564 1,363 3,909 106,659 47,658 849 1,835 4,612 2,151 42 163,806 Old Mutual plc 219 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2009 continued Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth At 31 December 2009 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Liabilities E8 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 28,655 9,514 3,689 35,554 11,625 Insurance contracts 11,783 74 121 901 10,787 Unit-Linked investment contracts and similar contracts 9,838 9,335 3,560 34,639 Other investment contracts 115 788 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,639 Outstanding claims 280 105 8 14 50 E8 General insurance liabilities Third party interests in consolidated funds E9 Borrowed funds 272 26 26 Senior debt securities Mortgage backed securities Subordinated debt securities 272 F6 Provisions 147 11 8 33 F7 Deferred revenue 23 5 160 456 Life assurance 16 5 155 379 Asset management 7 5 77 General insurance F8 Deferred tax liabilities 200 113 124 167 126 Current tax payable 70 20 2 37 F9 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 1,512 203 79 550 359 Liabilities under acceptances E10 Amounts owed to bank depositors 5,448 E6 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 141 22 9 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale Inter-segment liabilities 51 37 181 170 Total liabilities 31,071 15,399 4,062 36,978 12,289 Net assets 1,542 1,536 676 2,359 747 Equity F10 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,540 1,536 676 2,359 747 Non-controlling interests 2 F11 b Non-controlling interests ordinary shares 2 F11 b Non-controlling interests preference shares Total equity 1,542 1,536 676 2,359 747 The net assets of Emerging Markets are stated after eliminating investments in Group equity and debt instruments of 340 million 2008: 236 million held in policyholder funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by the Groups banking subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
All Emerging Markets debt relates to life assurance.
All other debt relates to other shareholders net assets.
220 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Total Long Term Other operating Consolidation Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Bermuda segments adjustments Total 89,037 661 4,178 93,876 23,666 95 3,788 27,549 57,372 57,372 903 566 390 1,859 6,639 6,639 457 457 372 372 2,906 2,906 298 1,614 1,397 3,309 26 484 636 1,146 118 118 272 1,012 761 2,045 199 1 21 2 40 263 644 1 9 654 555 1 556 89 89 9 9 730 148 2 25 905 129 21 10 5 45 210 2,703 897 118 221 9 120 255 4,305 170 170 5,448 38,687 44,135 172 969 59 790 1,990 439 697 1,202 1,571 3,909 99,799 43,866 522 1,435 4,174 3,257 42 153,095 6,860 3,792 327 400 438 1,106 10,711 6,858 2,084 265 371 438 1,552 8,464 2 1,708 62 29 446 2,247 2 1,444 62 29 1,537 264 446 710 6,860 3,792 327 400 438 1,106 10,711 Old Mutual plc 221 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2008 Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth At 31 December 2008 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Assets F1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 111 1,183 865 1,814 132 Goodwill 95 222 420 742 Present value of acquired in-force business 2 742 326 764 120 Software development 4 1 5 23 12 Other intangibles 14 218 114 285 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks F2 Property, plant and equipment 277 4 6 25 1 F3 Investment property 1,282 2 F8 Deferred tax assets 68 78 45 172 1,036 G5 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 33 F4 Deferred acquisition costs 116 34 253 698 1,896 Insurance contracts 2 49 1,896 Investment contracts 96 32 248 585 Asset management 20 5 64 E8 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 6 13 5 607 505 Insurance contracts 6 10 3 42 477 Unit-Linked investment contracts and similar contracts 551 Outstanding claims 3 2 14 28 E8 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities E8 Deposits held with reinsurers 121 40 E3 Loans and advances 59 3,846 2 139 62 Policyholder loans 59 2 138 61 Other loans and advances 3,846 1 1 E4 Investments and securities 22,447 7,595 2,958 29,477 10,284 Government and  securities 3,769 214 699 97 Listed other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 1,805 813 26 2 7,021 Unlisted other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 2,113 45 22 2,488 Listed equity securities 6,932 1 Unlisted equity securities 885 12 5 26 Listed pooled investments 411 155 649 8 Unlisted pooled investments 4,263 6,401 2,882 28,078 18 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2,264 652 Other securities 5 Current tax receivable 6 6 81 Client indebtedness for acceptances F5 Trade, other receivables and other assets 455 138 67 228 252 E6 Derivative financial instruments assets 209 36 Cash and cash equivalents 467 372 134 236 18 Non-current assets held-for-sale 7 Inter-segment assets 1,326 264 10 238 46 Total assets 26,869 13,648 4,351 33,717 14,272 222 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Total Long Term Other operating Consolidation Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Bermuda segments adjustments Total 4,105 425 29 1,305 5 13 5,882 1,479 308 10 1,271 13 3,081 1,950 1,950 45 117 19 1 5 187 631 33 664 734 734 313 316 24 26 3 682 1,284 15 179 1,478 1,399 25 8 158 1,590 33 75 3 111 2,997 2 15 40 145 3,199 1,947 15 145 2,107 961 961 89 2 40 131 1,136 9 3 1,148 538 9 3 550 551 551 47 47 115 115 161 3 164 4,108 31,634 2 1 35,745 260 260 3,848 31,634 2 1 35,485 72,761 5,043 322 177 3,676 88 1,455 83,522 4,779 2,255 1,942 8,976 9,667 2,172 1 534 1,695 14,069 4,668 2 202 175 5,047 6,933 38 67 7,938 14,976 928 152 5 118 1,203 1,223 426 36 135 2,085 1,310 5,215 41,642 42 11,853 29,831 2,916 211 737 125 3,989 5 88 123 216 93 25 118 220 220 1,140 486 68 139 789 96 419 3,137 245 1,627 21 226 1,109 3,228 1,191 631 56 220 29 79 997 3,203 7 7 1,884 19 46 99 377 1,339 3,764 92,857 41,286 688 2,164 5,045 1,848 395 144,283 Old Mutual plc 223 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued B: Segment information continued B6: Statement of financial position segment information year ended 31 December 2008 continued Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth At 31 December 2008 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Liabilities E8 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 23,261 6,884 2,973 29,603 13,337 Insurance contracts 10,619 71 92 694 12,365 Unit-Linked investment contracts and similar contracts 6,690 6,704 2,874 28,893 Other investment contracts 105 914 Discretionary participating investment contracts 5,646 Outstanding claims 201 109 7 16 58 E8 General insurance liabilities Third party interests in consolidated funds E9 Borrowed funds 237 1 Senior debt securities 1 Mortgage backed securities Subordinated debt securities 237 F6 Provisions 132 203 8 29 F7 Deferred revenue 31 3 128 428 Life assurance 17 3 122 347 Asset management 14 6 81 General insurance F8 Deferred tax liabilities 176 93 173 256 578 Current tax payable 98 22 28 15 F9 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 1,197 198 88 573 267 Liabilities under acceptances E10 Amounts owed to bank depositors 4,622 E6 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 31 1 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 6 Inter-segment liabilities 66 174 39 259 2 Total liabilities 25,235 12,199 3,409 31,178 14,169 Net assets 1,634 1,449 942 2,539 103 Equity F10 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,626 1,449 942 2,539 103 Non-controlling interests 8 F11 b Non-controlling interests ordinary shares 8 F11 b Non-controlling interests preference shares Total equity 1,634 1,449 942 2,539 103 The 31 December 2008 financial position has been restated to reduce both derivative financial assets and liabilities by an amount of 1,405 million and to increase both cash and cash equivalents and other liabilities by 305 million on a consistent basis to 31 December 2009.
The following table shows an analysis of those adjustments from adjusted operating profit to profit before and after tax.
m Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2009 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Income expense C1 b Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 1 12 243 167 14 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c 51 7 C1 d Short-term fluctuations in investment return 38 1 1 88 150 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 109 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests C1 g C1 h Credit-related fair value losses on Group debt instruments Total adjusting items 199 13 242 262 164 D1 d Tax on adjusting items 1 9 14 37 44 F11 a ii Non-controlling interest in adjusting items Total adjusting items after tax and non-controlling interests 200 4 228 225 120 m Long Term Savings Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2008 Notes Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Income expense C1 b Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 1 195 46 100 96 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c 11 55 C1 d Short-term fluctuations in investment return 95 4 1 140 248 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 234 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests C1 g C1 h Credit-related fair value gains on Group debt instruments Total adjusting items 127 136 45 40 344 D1 d Tax on adjusting items 20 14 17 10 3 F11 a ii Non-controlling interest in adjusting items Total adjusting items after tax and non-controlling interests 147 122 28 50 341 226 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Total Long Term Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Other Total 437 4 2 443 58 1 7 50 276 10 30 316 109 109 45 45 1 1 263 263 880 4 10 2 241 1,137 103 3 2 108 19 7 3 23 777 15 3 241 1,006 m Total Long Term Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Other Total 438 438 44 1 10 1 17 53 198 72 72 342 234 234 43 43 7 7 14 489 503 358 15 82 8 477 60 64 4 14 136 62 18 19 7 30 294 29 49 1 341 28 Old Mutual plc 227 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting Acquisition date deferred acquisition costs and deferred revenues are not recognised.
These are reversed in the acquisition statement of financial position and replaced by goodwill, other intangible assets and the value of the acquired present value of in-force business acquired PVIF.
In determining its adjusted operating profit the Group recognises deferred revenue and acquisition costs in relation to policies sold by acquired businesses pre-acquisition, and excludes the impairment of goodwill and the amortisation of acquired other intangibles and acquired PVIF and the movements in certain acquisition date provisions.
Goodwill impairment and acquisition accounting adjustments to adjusted operating profit are summarised below: m Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Nedbank USAM Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF 106 37 86 14 243 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue 1 21 5 34 51 2 25 14 36 4 2 83 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets Change in acquisition date provisions 98 98 Goodwill impairment note F1 187 79 266 1 12 243 167 14 4 2 443 m Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2008 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Nedbank USAM Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF 105 49 97 35 286 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue 1 22 16 42 81 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 1 24 13 37 75 Change in acquisition date provisions 76 8 84 Goodwill impairment note F1 1 12 61 74 1 195 46 100 96 438 c Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments On 6 March 2009 the Group disposed of its interest in Old Mutual Australia at a loss of 8 million.
In August 2008, an agreement with ABN AMRO Asset Management Asia and their parent company, Fortis Bank was entered into to acquire the 49% stake that Fortis holds in AATEDA, a major Chinese asset management joint venture for 165 million.
On 27 May 2009 the termination of this agreement with ABN AMRO Asset Management Asia and Fortis Bank was announced, with an exit fee of 41 million which has been accounted for as a loss on disposal.
On 11 June 2008, the Group completed the disposal of its controlling shareholding in Palladyne, an asset management business, resulting in a profit on disposal of 17 million.
Part of the Nordic segments banking business, Skandias Nordic vehicle finance operation, Skandiabanken Bilfinans, was sold in the previous financial year, resulting in a profit on disposal of 55 million.
In the previous financial year, the Group has closed its project to develop a direct financial services capability in South Africa due to adverse market conditions.
Costs relating to the closure amounting to 25 million have been excluded from the adjusted operating profit.
Emerging Markets realised a profit of 4 million on the sale of its administration business and Nedbank recognised a 1 million profit on the disposal of Bond Choice.
228 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Loss profits on the disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments are analysed below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Emerging Markets 51 11 Nordic 55 Wealth Management 7 Total Long Term Savings 58 44 Nedbank 1 M&F 10 USAM 1 1 Other 7 17 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 50 53 d Long-term investment return Profit before tax includes actual investment returns earned on the shareholder assets of the Groups life assurance and general insurance businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is stated after recalculating shareholder asset investment returns based on a long-term investment return rate.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns are short-term fluctuations in investment return.
Long-term rates of return are based on achieved real rates of return appropriate to the underlying asset base, adjusted for current inflation expectations, default assumptions, costs of investment management and consensus economic investment forecasts, and are reviewed frequently, usually annually, for appropriateness.
These rates of return have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating profit are consistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long-term.
For Emerging Markets, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund flows.
For Nordic, Retail Europe, Wealth Management and US Life, the return is applied to average investible assets.
For M&F general insurance business, the return is an average value of investible assets supporting shareholders funds and insurance liabilities, adjusted for net fund flows.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Long-term investment rates Emerging Markets 13.3% 16.6% Nordic 1.8% 3.5% Retail Europe 2.8% 3.1% Wealth Management 5.0% 5.0% US Life 5.9% 5.9% M&F 13.3% 16.6% Old Mutual plc 229 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Analysis of short-term fluctuations in investment return m Total Long Emerging Retail Wealth Term Year ended 31 December 2009 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Savings M&F Other Total Long-term investment return 126 1 1 109 539 776 60 91 927 Less: Actual shareholder investment return 88 2 21 389 500 50 61 611 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 38 1 1 88 150 276 10 30 316 m Total Long Emerging Retail Wealth Term Year ended 31 December 2008 Markets Nordic Europe Management US Life Savings M&F Other Total Long-term investment return 133 1 65 440 639 60 108 807 Less: Actual shareholder investment return 38 5 1 205 192 441 12 36 465 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 95 4 1 140 248 198 72 72 342 The actual investment return attributable to shareholders for US life assurance reflects total investment income, as a distinction is not drawn between shareholder and policyholder funds.
e Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instrument held in life funds Adjusted operating profit includes investment returns on policyholder investments in Group equity and debt instruments held by the Groups life funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares, and the subordinated liabilities and ordinary securities of Nedbank.
These investment returns are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at profit before tax, but are included in adjusted operating profit.
In 2009 the investment return adjustment increased adjusted operating profit by 109 million 2008: decrease of 234 million.
f Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities Dividends declared to the holders of the Groups perpetual preferred callable securities were 45 million in the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: 43 million.
These are recognised in finance costs on an accruals basis for the purpose of determining adjusted operating profit.
In the IFRS financial statements this cost is recognised in equity.
g US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests US Asset Management has a number of long-term incentive arrangements with senior employees in its asset management affiliates.
In accordance with IFRS requirements the cost of these schemes is disclosed as being attributable to non-controlling interests.
However, this is treated as a compensation expense in determining adjusted operating profit.
The gain recognised in 2009 was 1 million 2008: loss 7 million.
The Group has issued put options to senior employees as part of some of its US affiliate incentive schemes.
The impact of revaluing these instruments is recognised in accordance with IFRS, but excluded from adjusted operating profit.
As at 31 December 2009 these instruments were revalued, the impact of which was nil 2008: nil.
h Credit-related fair value gains and losses on Group debt instruments The narrowing of credit spread of the Groups debt instruments in the market price has resulted in losses of 263 million 2008: gains due to widening of 489 million on Other operating segments and nil 2008: 14 million gain in Nedbank being recorded in the Groups income statement for those instruments that are recorded at fair value.
In the directors view, such movements are not reflective of the underlying performance of the Group and will reverse over time.
They have therefore been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
230 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued C2: Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to Sterling are: Statement Income of financial statement position average rate closing rate 31 December 2009 Rand 13.1746 11.9172 US Dollars 1.5655 1.6148 Swedish Kronor 11.9743 11.5562 Euro 1.1227 1.1268 31 December 2008 Rand 15.2948 13.7194 US Dollars 1.8524 1.4575 Swedish Kronor 12.2209 11.4494 Euro 1.2594 1.0446 C3: Earnings and earnings per share a Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Loss profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 340 441 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 31 Loss profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 372 410 Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 45 million in 2009 2008: 43 million are stated net of tax credits of 13 million 2008: 12 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Millions Millions 2009 2008 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,277 5,294 Shares held in charitable foundations 7 19 Shares held in ESOP trusts 41 45 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,229 5,230 Shares held in life funds 236 240 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 235 235 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,758 4,755 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 7.8 8.6 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Millions Millions 2009 2008 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,758 4,755 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts 61 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 235 4,758 5,051 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 7.8 8.1 Old Mutual plc 231 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued No adjustments to the weighted average number of ordinary shares have been effected for 2009 in order to calculate the diluted earnings per ordinary share as any adjustments would be antidilutive.
b Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share is determined based on adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit represents the directors view of the underlying performance of the Group.
For long-term and general insurance business adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes defined as non-controlling interests in accordance with IFRS.
For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, revaluations of put options related to long-term incentive schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities, income expense from closure of unclaimed shares trusts and fair value gains losses on Group debt instruments.
The reconciliation of loss profit for the financial year to adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Loss profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 340 441 Adjusting items 1,137 60 Non core operations Bermuda 33 365 108 Tax on adjusting items 62 Non-controlling interest on adjusting items 23 30 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 633 778 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,229 5,230 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 12.1 14.9 c Headline earnings per share In accordance with the JSE Limited JSE listing requirements, the Group is required to calculate a headline earnings per share HEPS, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 8 2007 Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic earnings per ordinary share and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Gross Net Gross Net Loss profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 340 340 441 441 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 31 31 Loss profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 372 372 410 410 Adjustments: Impairments of goodwill and intangible assets 266 266 100 100 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic 50 53 53 67 investments Realised gains losses including impairments on available-for-sale financial assets 239 239 414 381 Headline earnings 183 186 871 824 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,758 4,758 4,755 4,755 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,109 5,109 5,051 5,051 Headline earnings per share pence 3.8 3.9 18.3 17.3 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 3.6 3.6 17.2 16.3 232 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued C4: Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2009 2008 2007 Final dividend paid 4.55p per 10p share 227 2008 Interim dividend paid 2.45p per 10p share 125 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 352 F10 b Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 45 43 Dividend payments for the year 45 395 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
In March and November 2009, 22 million and 23 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities March 2008: 23 million and November 2008: 20 million.
A final dividend of 1.5 pence per 10p share has been recommended by the directors.
Subject to shareholders approval, the dividend will be paid on 25 June 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 May 2010.
The dividend will absorb an estimated 81 million of shareholders funds.
The Company is planning to offer, for the first time, a scrip dividend alternative for eligible shareholders subject to finalising the associated logistics and timetable.
D: Other income statement notes D1: Income tax expense credit a Analysis of total income tax expense credit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Current tax United Kingdom tax Corporation tax 46 93 Double tax relief 145 Overseas tax 257 South Africa 264 United States 4 Europe 49 68 Secondary Tax on Companies STC 13 22 Prior year adjustments 14 1 Total current tax 379 307 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 45 548 Changes in tax rates bases 1 Write down recognition of deferred tax assets 59 154 Total deferred tax 14 395 Total income tax expense credit 365 88 Old Mutual plc 233 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Reconciliation of total income tax expense credit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Profit before tax 247 595 Tax at standard rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 69 169 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 9 23 Untaxed and low taxed income 86 218 Disallowable expenses 180 8 83 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 123 Effect on deferred tax of changes in tax rates 2 5 STC 19 53 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 142 169 Other 31 26 Total income tax expense credit 365 88 c Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Fair value gains losses 428 383 Shadow accounting 18 16 Currency translation differences exchange differences on translating foreign operations 13 Other 13 12 Income tax expense credit relating to components of other comprehensive income 397 366 d Income tax on adjusted operating profit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Income tax expense credit 365 88 Tax on adjusting items Impact of acquisition accounting 40 46 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 2 12 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 83 35 Income tax attributable to policyholders returns 192 236 Tax on dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities recognised in equity 13 12 Fair value gains and losses on group debt instruments 143 Tax on non-core operations 11 Income tax on adjusted operating profit 292 86 234 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued D2: Investment return non-banking Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Interest and similar income Loans and advances 16 34 Investments and securities 1,701 1,644 307 Government and  securities 253 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 1,023 916 Pooled investments 80 54 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 287 290 Other 4 131 Cash and cash equivalents 57 108 Total interest and similar income 1,774 1,786 Dividend income investments and securities 387 513 Equity securities 324 480 Pooled investments 63 33 Fair value gains and losses recognised in income 9,410 13,790 Investments and securities 8,844 12,921 Derivatives 343 249 Other 909 1,118 Rental income from investment property 136 71 Investment property 99 143 Foreign currency gains losses 8 15 Total investment return recognised in income 11,616 11,578 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 681 851 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held for trading including derivatives 343 249 Designated at fair value through income statement 9,992 13,626 Available-for-sale financial assets 239 414 Loans and receivables 1 9,410 13,790 Realised fair value gains and losses included in the above 10 2 The fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets shown above reflect the amount previously recognised as unrealised within the available-for-sale reserve in equity that have been recycled to the income statement on disposal or impairment of the particular assets.
Included within fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and securities are impairment losses of 261 million 2008: 414 million which all relate to debt securities held by the Groups US Life and Bermuda businesses.
Old Mutual plc 235 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued D3: Banking interest and similar income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Interest and similar income Loans and advances 3,635 3,701 Mortgage loans 1,852 1,958 Finance lease and instalment debtors 581 545 Credit cards 92 89 Bills and acceptances 3 4 Overdrafts 120 149 Term loans and other 987 956 Investments and securities 346 345 Government and  securities 261 210 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 85 135 Cash and cash equivalents 8 13 Total interest and similar income 3,989 4,059 Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 3,518 3,779 Total interest income on impaired financial assets 180 109 D4: Banking trading, investment and similar income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Dividend income investments and securities 4 16 Equity securities 4 14 Pooled investments 2 Rental income from investment property 4 3 Exchange and other non-interest income 21 43 61 Derivative income 49 Exchange 1 6 Securities dealing 42 22 Fair value gains 3 10 Net trading income 139 100 Foreign exchange 88 76 Debt securities 58 36 Equities 8 12 Other 1 Total banking trading, investment and similar income 168 162 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 35 61 Designated at fair value through income statement 32 71 3 10 Realised fair value gains included in the above 4 19 236 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued D5: Fee and commission income, and income from service activities m Life Asset General Year ended 31 December 2009 assurance management Banking insurance Total Fee and commission income 947 855 632 23 2,457 Transaction and performance fees 27 27 Change in deferred revenue 73 11 1 1 62 874 893 633 22 2,422 m Life Asset General Year ended 31 December 2008 assurance management Banking insurance Total Fee and commission income 950 910 507 18 2,385 Transaction and performance fees 34 34 Change in deferred revenue 109 4 1 2 106 841 948 508 16 2,313 The amounts shown above for asset management relate to fees earned on trust and fiduciary activities where the Group holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers.
D6: Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2009 2008 Interest payable on borrowed funds 57 89 Senior debt and term loans 18 26 Subordinated debt 64 65 Other 25 2 Fair value gains and losses on borrowed funds 268 474 Borrowed funds 274 434 Derivative instruments 6 40 Foreign currency gains and losses on borrowed funds 3 6 Reserve movements relating to debt and derivative instruments 1 Total finance costs excluding banking activities 322 392 D7 Finance costs from banking activities 117 79 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 21 27 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 6 40 Designated at fair value through income statement 274 434 268 474 Old Mutual plc 237 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued D7: Banking interest payable and similar expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Amounts owed to bank depositors 2,458 2,594 Deposits and loan accounts 1,489 1,698 Current and savings accounts 119 267 733 Negotiable certificates of deposit 550 Long-term debt instruments 117 79 Other liabilities 169 259 Total interest payable and similar expenses 2,627 2,853 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 2,202 2,038 D8: Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs m Life Asset General Year ended 31 December 2009 assurance management insurance Total Fees and commission expenses 632 126 106 864 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 111 3 114 Other acquisition costs 52 4 56 573 127 106 806 m Life Asset General Year ended 31 December 2008 assurance management insurance Total Fees and commission expenses 804 170 103 1,077 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 184 7 2 193 Other acquisition costs 46 7 53 666 170 101 937 The amounts shown above for asset management relate to fees earned on trust and fiduciary activities where the Group holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers.
D9: Other operating and administrative expenses a Other operating and administrative expenses includes: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2009 2008 D9 b Staff costs 1,701 1,463 F2 Depreciation 86 74 Software costs 14 24 Operating lease rentals banking 55 44 Operating lease rentals non-banking 57 58 Amortisation of intangibles 275 329 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 266 100 238 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Staff costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2009 2008 Staff costs Wages and salaries 1,196 1,011 Social security costs 58 60 Retirement obligations Defined contribution plans 50 37 Defined benefit plans 2 24 Other retirement benefits 4 3 Bonus and incentive remuneration 264 200 Share-based payments G2 h Cash settled 7 3 G2 h Equity settled 35 21 2 Termination benefits 2 Long-term employee benefits 3 4 Other 80 146 1,701 1,463 Number The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: Life assurance 19,059 20,814 Banking 27,180 27,257 Asset management 4,832 5,506 General insurance 2,331 2,703 Other 304 266 53,706 56,546 c Fees to Groups auditors Included in other operating expenses are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Fees for audit services Group 1.4 1.5 10.7 Subsidiaries 9.7 Pension schemes 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 12.4 11.5 Fees for non-audit services Taxation 1.1 0.9 0.1 Information technology 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.4 Valuation and actuarial 0.1 0.2 Any other services provided by auditors 1.4 2.7 Total non-audit services 2.8 4.3 Total Group auditors remuneration 15.2 15.8 In addition to the above, fees of 2.9million 2008: 2.6 million were payable to other auditors in respect of joint audit arrangements of Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary in South Africa.
Old Mutual plc 239 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued d Operating lease payments Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2009 2008 Banking 44 43 Non-banking 28 33 72 76 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
240 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities E1: Group statement of financial position The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets investments and loans, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are credit risk, market risk arising from changes in equity, and bond prices, interest and foreign exchange rates, and liquidity risk.
Market risk arises from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements and or conditions.
a Categories of financial instruments The analysis of assets and liabilities into their categories as defined in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 is set out in the following table.
For completeness, assets and liabilities of a non-financial nature, or financial assets and liabilities that are specifically excluded from the scope of IAS 39, are reflected in the non-financial assets and liabilities category.
m Fair value through income statement AvailableFinancial Nonfor-sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2009 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,159 5,159 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 882 882 Property, plant and equipment 828 828 Investment property 1,759 1,759 Deferred tax assets 570 570 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 135 135 Deferred acquisition costs 3,138 3,138 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,296 717 88 491 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 120 120 Deposits held with reinsurers 146 110 36 Loans and advances 42,393 1,163 3,157 38,073 Investments and securities 98,461 936 82,862 11,677 1,210 1,758 18 Current tax receivable 169 169 Client indebtedness for acceptances 170 170 Other assets 3,051 70 909 1,807 265 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 2,546 Cash and cash equivalents 2,982 2,982 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1 1 163,806 4,715 87,755 11,677 1,210 45,626 12,823 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 93,876 1,372 58,582 121 1,178 32,623 General insurance liabilities 372 372 Third party interest in consolidation of funds 2,906 2,906 Borrowed funds 3,309 1,344 1,965 Provisions 263 263 Deferred revenue 654 654 Deferred tax liabilities 905 905 210 210 Current tax payable Other liabilities 4,305 411 643 2,545 706 Liabilities under acceptances 170 170 Amounts owed to bank depositors 44,135 2,520 6,235 35,380 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,990 1,990 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 153,095 6,293 69,710 121 41,068 35,903 Old Mutual plc 241 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Fair value through income statement AvailableFinancial Nonfor-sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2008 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,882 5,882 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 734 734 Property, plant and equipment 682 682 Investment property 1,478 1,478 Deferred tax assets 1,590 1,590 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 111 111 Deferred acquisition costs 3,199 3,199 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,148 551 37 560 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 115 115 Deposits held with reinsurers 164 121 43 Loans and advances 35,745 760 2,548 32,437 Investments and securities 83,522 627 67,703 11,732 1,494 1,966 Current tax receivable 118 118 Client indebtedness for acceptances 220 220 Other assets 3,137 73 596 2,145 323 Derivative financial instruments assets 3,228 3,228 Cash and cash equivalents 3,203 3,203 Non-current assets held-for-sale 7 7 144,283 4,688 71,519 11,732 1,494 40,565 14,285 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 81,269 1,833 45,691 1,434 32,311 General insurance liabilities 344 344 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 2,591 2,591 Borrowed funds 2,295 1,056 1,239 Provisions 477 477 Deferred revenue 598 598 Deferred tax liabilities 1,452 1,452 Current tax payable 219 219 Other liabilities 4,074 271 531 1,788 1,484 Liabilities under acceptances 220 220 Amounts owed to bank depositors 38,171 1,431 7,164 29,576 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 2,990 2,990 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 6 6 134,706 6,525 57,033 34,037 37,111 In accordance with the provisions of the October 2008 amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in respect of reclassifications of financial assets, the Companys US subsidiary, US Life, in 2008 elected to reclassify 152 securities from the availablefor-sale category to the loans and receivables category on the basis that the securities were no longer regarded as being traded in an active market.
The reclassifications were made as at 1 July 2008 in accordance with the transitional provisions in the amendment.
The book values and fair values of the reclassified securities as at 1 July 2008 were 1,119 million and 926 million respectively.
These securities had an aggregate carrying value and aggregate fair value as at 31 December 2009 of 1,001 million and 971 million respectively 2008: 1,262 million and 972 million respectively.
The amount of accumulated unrealised losses on the reclassified securities already recognised in other comprehensive income as at the date of reclassification was 263 million.
The amount of unrealised losses that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income had the reclassification not taken place would have been 29 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 284 million.
242 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The overall income statement impact of the reclassifications was nil, as the revised amortised effective interest on the reclassified securities was directly offset by the amortisation of the previously recognised unrealised losses to the income statement using the same amortisation pattern.
At 1 July 2008, the effective rates of interest for the reclassified securities ranged from 4.39% to 15.23% and at that point the Group expected to recover 2.1 billion based on exchange rate at 1 July 2008 in projected cash flows over the remaining lives of the reclassified securities.
b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Determination of fair value All financial instruments, regardless of their IAS 39 categorisation, are initially recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price, that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the initial fair value may be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only observable data.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets, which in certain circumstances includes using quotations from independent third parties such as brokers and pricing services, and offer prices for liabilities.
When quoted prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
A number of factors such as bid-offer spread, credit profile, servicing costs and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when values are calculated using a valuation technique.
Changes in the assumptions used in such valuations could impact the reported value of such instruments.
In general, other than in respect of those securities that have been reclassified from available-for-sale to loans and receivables as described in note E1 a above, none of the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost have a fair value significantly different to their carrying amounts.
Such assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of variable-rate financial assets and liabilities that reprice as interest rates change, short-term deposits or current assets.
Loans and advances Loans and advances principally comprise of variable rate financial assets and liabilities, which are re-priced when there are movements in the interest rates.
The Group has developed and applied a fair value methodology in respect of gross exposures of loans and advances that are measured at amortised cost.
The methodology incorporates the historical interest rates per product type and the projected monthly cash flows per product type.
Future forecasts for the overall probability of default PD and Loss Given Defaults LGDs for the years from 2009 to 2011, based on the latest internal data available, is applied to the first three years projected cash flows.
Average PDs and LGDs are applied to the projected cash flows for later years.
These results are compared to both regulatory and accounting credit model values.
There are no significant variances in the fair value methodology results compared to the carrying values reported in these financial statements.
For impaired advances, the carrying value as determined from the Groups credit models is considered the best estimate of fair value.
The Group is satisfied that, after considering the internal credit models together with other assumptions and the variable interest rate exposure, the carrying value of loans and advances measured at amortised cost approximates fair value.
Investments and securities Investments and securities include government and  securities, listed and unlisted debt securities, preference shares and debentures, listed and unlisted equity securities, listed and unlisted pooled investments see below, short-term funds and securities treated as investments and certain other securities.
Pooled investments represent the groups holdings of shares units in open-ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles.
Pooled investments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of pooled investments are based on widely published prices that are regularly updated or models based on the market prices of investments held in the underlying pooled investment funds.
Investment contracts The approach to determining the fair values of investment contracts is set out in the accounting policies section for insurance and investment contract business.
Amounts owed to bank depositors The fair values of amounts owed to bank depositors corresponds with the carrying amount shown in the statement of financial position, which generally reflects the amount payable on demand.
Borrowed funds The fair values of amounts included in borrowed funds are based on quoted market prices at the reporting date where applicable, or by reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
Old Mutual plc 243 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Other financial assets and liabilities The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities which comprised cash and cash equivalents, cash with central banks, other assets and liabilities are reasonably approximated by the carrying amounts reflected in the statement of financial position as they are short term in nature or re-price to current market rates frequently.
Fair value hierarchy Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy.
Level 1 quoted market prices: financial assets and liabilities with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Instruments classified as Level 1 generally comprise listed equity securities, government securities and other listed debt securities and similar instruments, actively traded pooled investments, certain quoted derivative assets and liabilities, listed borrowed funds and investment contract liabilities linked to Level 1 pooled investments and other assets.
Level 2 valuation techniques using observable inputs: financial assets and liabilities with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial assets and liabilities valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Instruments classified as Level 2 generally comprise unlisted equity and debt securities where the valuation is based on models involving no significant unobservable data.
This includes certain loans and advances, certain privately placed debt instruments, third party interests in consolidated funds and amounts owed to bank depositors.
Level 3 valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs: financial assets and liabilities valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Instruments classified as Level 3 generally comprise unlisted equity and securities with significant unobservable inputs, securities where the market is not considered sufficiently active, including certain inactive pooled investments, and derivatives embedded in certain portfolios of insurance contracts where the derivative is not closely related to the host contract and the valuation contains significant unobservable inputs.
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an active market.
In the event that the market for a financial asset or liability is not active, or quoted prices cannot be obtained without undue effort, a valuation technique is used.
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, for example, consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the asset or liability requires additional work during the valuation process.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data, and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is high.
However, certain financial assets and liabilities are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable and, for them, the derivation of fair value is more judgemental.
A financial asset or liability in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if a significant proportion of that asset or liabilitys carrying amount is driven by unobservable inputs.
In this context, unobservable means that there is little or no current market data available for which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no market data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value.
Furthermore, in some cases the majority of the fair value derived from a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs may be attributable to observable inputs.
Consequently, the effect of uncertainty in determining unobservable inputs will generally be restricted to uncertainty about the overall fair value of the asset or liability being measured.
Additional information on the impact of unobservable inputs is provided in the section headed Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives.
244 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Fair value hierarchy m Year ended 31 December 2009 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 4,715 959 3,720 36 Loans and advances 1,163 31 1,125 7 Investments and securities 936 32 876 28 Other assets 70 70 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 826 1,719 1 Designated fair value through income statement 87,755 76,960 9,011 1,784 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 717 717 Deposits held with reinsurers 110 110 Loans and advances 3,157 3,157 82,862 76,114 4,964 1,784 Investments and securities Other assets 909 19 890 Available-for-sale financial assets 11,677 1,159 10,070 448 Investments and securities 11,677 1,159 10,070 448 Total financial assets measured at fair value 104,147 79,078 22,801 2,268 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,293 1,201 3,727 1,365 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,372 20 1,352 Other liabilities 411 390 21 Amounts owed to bank depositors 2,520 18 2,502 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,990 793 1,184 13 Designated fair value through income statement 69,710 44,879 24,235 596 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 58,582 43,450 14,536 596 Third party interests in consolidated funds 2,906 2,906 1,344 1,344 Borrowed funds Other liabilities 643 85 558 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,235 6,235 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 76,003 46,080 27,962 1,961 Old Mutual plc 245 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Fair value hierarchy m Year ended 31 December 2008 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 4,688 1,206 3,390 92 Loans and advances 760 708 52 Investments and securities 627 587 40 Other assets 73 73 Derivative financial instruments assets 3,228 1,133 2,095 Designated fair value through income statement 71,519 61,226 8,463 1,830 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 551 551 Deposits held with reinsurers 121 121 Loans and advances 2,548 2,548 Investments and securities 67,703 60,542 5,331 1,830 Other assets 596 12 584 Available-for-sale financial assets 11,732 1,871 9,521 340 Investments and securities 11,732 1,871 9,521 340 Total financial assets measured at fair value 87,939 64,303 21,374 2,262 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,525 1,372 3,310 1,843 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,833 1,833 Other liabilities 271 267 4 Amounts owed to bank depositors 1,431 1,431 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 2,990 1,105 1,875 10 Designated fair value through income statement 57,033 37,020 19,188 825 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 45,691 35,964 8,902 825 Third party interests in consolidated funds 2,591 2,591 Borrowed funds 1,056 1,056 Other liabilities 531 531 Amounts owed to bank depositors 7,164 7,164 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 63,558 38,392 22,498 2,668 246 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m For assets and liabilities held at the year end Gains Gains losses losses Gains recognised Gains recognised losses in other Foreign losses in other At recognised compreSales and exchange recognised comprebeginning in income hensive Purchases settleTransfers Transfers and other At end of in income hensive of the year statement income and issues ments in out movement the year statement income Level 3 assets Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 92 7 4 48 5 8 36 35 13 Loans and advances 52 7 4 33 5 4 7 Investments and securities 40 1 15 4 28 35 13 Derivative financial instruments assets 1 1 Designated fair value through income statement 1,830 13 12 163 186 107 225 96 1,784 22 I nvestments and securities 1,830 13 12 163 186 107 225 96 1,784 22 Available-for-sale financial assets 340 42 20 118 11 95 40 32 448 Investments and securities 340 42 20 118 11 95 40 32 448 Total Level 3 assets 2,262 62 28 281 245 202 270 72 2,268 57 13 Level 3 liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 1,843 225 29 113 169 1,365 560 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,833 227 29 113 170 1,352 551 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 10 2 1 13 9 Designated fair value through income statement 825 79 12 27 107 225 17 596 85 Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 825 79 12 27 107 225 17 596 85 Total Level 3 liabilities 2,668 304 41 140 107 225 186 1,961 475 Old Mutual plc 247 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The transfers into Level 3 largely relate to where inputs on certain financial assets and liabilities obtained from pricing service providers are no longer observable.
The transfers out of Level 3 relate to certain pooled investments no longer being considered inactive and for which observable inputs are now available.
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the financial asset or liability as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameter using statistical techniques.
When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is judgemental.
When the fair value of a financial asset or liability is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the figures shown reflect the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
In respect of private equity investments, the valuations are assessed on an asset-by-asset basis using a valuation methodology appropriate to the specific investment, in line with industry guidelines.
In many of the methodologies, the principal assumption is the valuation multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators including, for example, multiples for comparable listed companies and discounts to marketability.
For asset-backed securities whose prices are unobservable, models are used to generate the expected value of the asset, incorporating benchmark information on factors such as prepayment patterns, default rates, loss severities and the historical performance of the underlying assets.
The models used are calibrated by using securities for which external market information is available.
For structured notes and other derivatives, principle assumptions concern the future volatility of asset values and the future correlation between asset values.
These principle assumptions include credit volatilities and correlations used in the valuation of the structured credit derivatives.
For such unobservable assumptions, estimates are based on available market data, which may include the use of a proxy method to derive a volatility or correlation from comparable assets for which market data is more readily available, and examination of historical levels.
248 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Analysis of reasonably possible alternative assumptions m Reflected in Reflected in income statement comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Year ended 31 December 2009 changes changes changes changes Level 3 financial assets Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 1 1 Loans and advances Investments and securities 1 1 Derivative financial instruments assets Designated fair value through income statement 404 481 Investments and securities 404 481 Available-for-sale financial assets 27 24 27 24 Investments and securities Total level 3 financial assets 405 482 27 24 Level 3 financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 29 13 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 26 10 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 3 3 Designated fair value through income statement 85 92 Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 85 92 Total level 3 financial liabilities 114 105 For the above analysis, the determination of the impacts of the favourable and unfavourable changes was based on a reasonable range of favourable and unfavourable changes in the key observable inputs for the major types of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities, ranging from, for example, a 10% change in the price earnings multiple for equity securities, to a 25% change in the discount rates applied to debt securities and volatility assumptions in derivative contracts.
Changes in other key observable inputs such as lapses and non-performance risk were also considered.
Old Mutual plc 249 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Financial instruments designated as fair value through income statement Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum exposure to Current At 31 December 2009 credit risk financial year Cumulative Loans and advances 3,157 1 Investments and securities 8,842 7 8 Other assets 56 12,055 8 8 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum exposure to Current At 31 December 2008 credit risk financial year Cumulative Loans and advances 2,548 1 Investments and securities 6,622 9 13 Other assets 36 9,206 9 12 Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Contractual Current maturity At 31 December 2009 Fair value financial year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,344 264 276 1,679 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,235 6 18 6,290 7,579 258 294 7,969 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Contractual Current financial maturity At 31 December 2008 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,460 503 565 2,002 Amounts owed to bank depositors 7,164 10 11 7,169 8,624 493 554 9,171 The fair values of other categories of financial liabilities designated as fair value through the income statement do not change significantly in respect of credit risk.
250 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The change in fair value due to change in credit risk shown above is determined as the amount of the change in fair value of the instrument that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
For loans and receivables that have been designated as at fair value through the income statement, individual credit spreads are determined at inception as the difference between the benchmark interest rate and the interest rate charged to the client.
Subsequent changes in the benchmark interest rate and the credit spread give risk to changes in fair value in the financial instrument.
Loans and advances are reviewed for observable changes in credit risk, and the credit spread is adjusted at subsequent dates if there has been an observable change in credit risk relating to a particular loan or advance.
No credit derivatives are used to hedge the credit risk on any of the financial assets designated at fair value through the income statement.
The change in fair value due to credit risk of financial liabilities designated at fair value through the income statement has been determined as the difference between fair values determined using a liability curve adjusted for credit and a risk-free liability curve.
This difference is cross-checked to market related data on credit spreads, where available.
c Market risk i Overview Market risk is the risk of a financial impact arising from the changes in values of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups businesses depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
Each of the Groups business units has an established set of policies, principles and governance processes to manage market risk within their individual businesses and in accordance with their local regulatory requirements.
A monitoring process established at a Group level overlies these individual approaches to the management of market risk.
The impacts of changes in market risk are monitored and managed by way of sensitivity analyses, through the business units own regulatory processes, with reference to the Groups economic capital processes, and by other means.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings, capital position and embedded value is monitored through the Groups embedded value reporting processes.
ii Insurance operations For the Groups insurance operations, equity and property price risk and interest rate risk on the value of the securities are modelled in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
In South Africa the stock selection and investment analysis process is supported by a well-developed research function.
For fixed annuities, market risks are managed where possible by investing in fixed interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on policies that include specific guarantees and where shareholders carry the investment risk, principally reside in the South African guaranteed non-profit annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are also suitably matched based upon comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared, is minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
In the US, for fixed annuities, risk is managed by investing in fixed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash flows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any mismatch is not material.
In addition, extensive interest rate scenario testing is carried out, as required by US regulatory authorities, in order to ensure that the amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
The guaranteed returns provided under equity indexed annuities are hedged to ensure a close matching of option or futures payoffs to the liability growth.
Hedging is largely static with minimal trading.
For variable annuities, the guaranteed returns provided are dynamically hedged.
Hedging positions are reviewed daily to re-adjust them as necessary.
For the variable annuity business in Old Mutual Bermuda, the guaranteed returns are no longer dynamically hedged, instead the overall exposures to changes in markets are monitored closely so that actions can be taken to re-establish hedging at short notice, however this does create more short-term risk of volatility in earnings and capital for the Bermuda operation.
In Skandias unit-linked assurance operations, the Group has limited exposure to the volatility from equity markets, because in the main, equity price risk is borne by policyholders subject to the impact on asset-based fees charged on policyholder funds.
In respect of Skandias shareholders funds, equity price risks are addressed in Skandias investment policy, which provides for very limited opportunity for business units to invest their own capital in equities or in units in equity funds.
In some areas of Skandias business, most notably its traditional life insurance business, Skandia is exposed to market risks arising from various forms of guarantees.
Typically the policyholder is guaranteed a certain return regardless of the asset return achieved during the term of the policy.
These risks are closely monitored and mitigated by applying asset and liability management techniques, ensuring that the proceeds from sale of assets are sufficient to meet the obligations to policyholders.
Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in market prices arising in the Groups insurance operations are set out in the Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value supplementary basis information section of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 382 to 389.
Old Mutual plc 251 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued iii Banking operations The principal market risks arising in the Groups banking operations arise from: trading risk in Nedbank Capital: and banking book interest rate risk arises from repricing and or maturity mismatches between on and off-balance sheet components in all banking businesses.
A comprehensive market risk framework is used to ensure that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to achieve effective independent monitoring and management of market risk.
Trading risk Market risk exposures from trading activities at Nedbank Capital are measured using Value-at-Risk VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis, and stress-scenario analysis, and limit structures are set accordingly.
The VaR risk measure for Nedbank estimates the potential loss in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a specified confidence level.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between products and markets.
Risks can be measured consistently across all markets and products, and risk measures can be aggregated to arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99% VaR number used by Nedbank represents the overnight loss that has less than 1% chance of occurring under normal market conditions.
By its nature, VaR is only a single measure and cannot be relied upon on its own as a means of measuring and managing risk.
m Average Minimum Maximum Year-end Historical VaR one-day, 99% by risk type At 31 December 2009 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.1 0.9 0.3 Interest rate 1.4 0.6 2.4 0.6 Equity products 0.5 0.2 1.1 0.3 Other 0.5 0.2 1.1 0.4 Diversification 1.0 0.5 Total VaR exposure 1.7 1.1 5.5 1.1 m Average Minimum Maximum Year-end At 31 December 2008 Foreign exchange 0.4 0.1 1.3 0.2 Interest rate 0.9 0.5 1.6 1.3 Equity products 0.5 0.2 1.4 0.4 Other 0.4 0.2 0.6 0.4 Diversification 0.9 0.8 Total VaR exposure 1.3 1.0 4.9 1.5 Banking book interest rate risk Banking book interest rate risk at Nedbank arises because: the bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits: funding is prudently raised across the curve at fixed-term deposit rates that reprice only on maturity: short-term demand-funding products reprice to different short-end base rates: certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive: and the bank has a mismatch in net non-rate-sensitive balances, including shareholders funds, that do not reprice for interest rate changes.
Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking book.
This includes static reprice gap analysis and a point-in-time interest income stress testing for parallel interest rate moves over a forward-looking 12-month period.
At 31 December 2009 the sensitivity of the banking book to a 1% instantaneous reduction in interest rates would have led to a reduction in Net interest income and equity of 44 million 2008: 31 million.
252 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The table below shows the repricing profile of Nedbanks banking book, which highlights the fact that assets reprice quicker than liabilities following derivative hedging activities.
The majority of Skandiabankens deposit taking and lending activity, after risk coverage, is short-term, which means that interest rates are changed to reflect the situation in the money market.
The interest rate risk that arises from mismatching of fixed rates of interest is reduced through interest rate swap agreements.
Old Mutual plc 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued d Currency risk The Group is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Groups presentation currency is GBP, whereas other than for the UK operations the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and euro.
The Group reduces this risk through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such risk mitigation techniques are reflected in the currency analyses that follow.
Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd OMB shareholder funds and client assets are invested in US dollar denominated bonds, mutual funds, money market securities and cash.
Where selected, OMB provides minimum guarantees, also denominated in US dollars.
However, a significant portion of the underlying assets invested in by OMBs clients are exposed to currencies other than the US dollar.
OMB estimates and tracks this exposure on a daily basis and, depending on the hedging strategy employed, seeks to mitigate the exposure to a greater or lesser extent.
The table below shows the Groups statement of financial position by major currency at 31 December 2009. m At 31 December 2009 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 608 1,523 1,267 661 1,013 87 5,159 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 843 35 4 882 Property, plant and equipment 738 21 22 5 6 36 828 Investment property 1,518 223 18 1,759 Deferred tax assets 83 19 329 30 104 5 570 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 102 26 7 135 Deferred acquisition costs 129 696 1,894 347 43 29 3,138 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 32 772 475 7 4 6 1,296 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 107 13 120 Deposits held with reinsurers 3 143 146 Loans and advances 35,077 533 1,586 92 1,979 3,126 42,393 Investments and securities 29,483 30,685 18,690 5,983 10,530 3,090 98,461 Current tax receivable 51 93 17 2 6 169 Client indebtedness for acceptances 141 10 19 170 Other assets 1,137 223 1,302 155 188 46 3,051 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,381 100 1,020 34 9 2 2,546 Cash and cash equivalents 790 844 483 319 422 124 2,982 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1 1 72,224 35,793 27,228 7,669 14,300 6,592 163,806 Liabilities 28,509 30,204 18,920 7,171 6,318 2,754 93,876 Life assurance policyholder liabilities General insurance liabilities 344 28 372 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 531 1,507 206 662 2,906 Borrowed funds 1,941 750 31 583 4 3,309 Provisions 156 63 17 20 7 263 Deferred revenue 28 421 190 15 654 Deferred tax liabilities 337 162 126 154 109 17 905 Current tax payable 81 85 16 2 15 11 210 Other liabilities 2,507 100 742 382 229 345 4,305 Liabilities under acceptances 140 10 20 170 Amounts owed to bank depositors 35,471 778 1,572 179 2,803 3,332 44,135 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,092 815 7 76 1,990 71,137 34,070 22,445 8,708 10,216 6,509 153,095 254 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m At 31 December 2008 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 479 1,670 1,392 1,065 1,146 130 5,882 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 686 46 2 734 Property, plant and equipment 594 27 28 5 3 25 682 Investment property 1,296 181 1 1,478 Deferred tax assets 97 166 1,194 44 73 16 1,590 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 78 26 7 111 Deferred acquisition costs 117 624 2,082 234 29 113 3,199 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 15 607 508 1 6 11 1,148 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 100 15 115 Deposits held with reinsurers 3 161 164 Loans and advances 29,263 468 1,398 166 1,728 2,722 35,745 Investments and securities 23,251 27,969 17,845 4,595 7,799 2,063 83,522 Current tax receivable 29 80 1 6 2 118 Client indebtedness for acceptances 208 9 1 2 220 Other assets 983 311 1,396 54 297 96 3,137 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,779 32 1,210 175 30 2 3,228 Cash and cash equivalents 1,057 645 657 180 293 371 3,203 Non-current assets held-for-sale 7 7 60,042 32,852 27,881 6,526 11,404 5,578 144,283 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 23,604 20,607 23,070 5,949 6,655 1,384 81,269 General insurance liabilities 316 28 344 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 374 1,068 129 1,020 2,591 Borrowed funds 1,184 279 316 455 61 2,295 Provisions 142 102 124 18 58 33 477 Deferred revenue 26 394 128 50 598 Deferred tax liabilities 329 235 578 194 87 29 1,452 Current tax payable 115 64 13 2 20 5 219 Other liabilities 1,996 842 754 182 180 120 4,074 Liabilities under acceptances 208 9 1 2 220 Amounts owed to bank depositors 30,298 645 1,724 282 2,261 2,961 38,171 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,730 33 1,128 7 92 2,990 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 6 6 60,328 24,269 27,845 7,218 10,434 4,612 134,706 The Group reduces the risk to foreign currency fluctuations through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
There are no direct exposures to the unit linked investments and related policyholder liabilities.
Taking these risk mitigation techniques into account, a 10% appreciation in the GBP would result in a reduction to equity holders funds in relation to the USD of 318million 2008: 292 million, EUR 42 million 2008: 113 million, SEK 352 million 2008: 215 million and ZAR 99 million 2008: an increase in consolidated equity holders funds of 26 million.
A 10% deterioration in the value of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP as set out in note C2 would have led to a reduction in Profit after tax of 48 million 2008: 10 million gain.
Old Mutual plc 255 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued E2: Credit risk Overall exposure to credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparty will default on its contractual obligation resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and credit rating of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
The Group does not have significant credit exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Nedbanks lending portfolio forms the substantial part of the Groups loans and advances, analysed below.
Credit risk represents the most significant risk type facing Nedbank, accounting for over 70% of its economic capital requirements.
Nedbanks credit risk profile is managed in terms of its credit risk management framework, which encompasses comprehensive credit policy, mandate limits and governance structures, and is approved by the Nedbank Board.
The other major source of credit risk arises predominantly in the Groups insurance operations portfolios of debt and similar securities along with those portfolios of debt instruments held by the banking operations.
Credit risk for these portfolios is managed with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposures to below investment grade holdings.
Other than the above, the Group has other limited credit risk exposures in respect of amounts due from policyholders, intermediaries and reinsurers.
None of the life assurance operations cedes significant risk through reinsurance and any loans to policyholders are secured on the surrender value of the relevant policies.
The table below represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account the value of any collateral obtained.
The total credit exposure also includes potential exposure arising from financial guarantees given by the Group and undrawn loan commitments, which are not yet reflected in the Groups statement of financial position.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 882 734 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,296 1,148 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 120 115 Deposits held with reinsurers 146 164 Loans and advances 42,393 35,745 Investments and securities 32,668 32,297 Government and  securities 8,168 8,976 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 20,526 19,116 3,859 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,989 Other 115 216 Other assets 3,004 2,681 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 3,228 Cash and cash equivalents 2,982 2,862 Financial guarantees and other credit related contingent liabilities 3,100 1,989 Loan commitments and other credit related commitments 4,602 4,165 93,739 85,128 i Financial collateral The Group takes financial collateral to support exposures in its banking and securities and lending activities.
Collateral held includes cash and debt securities.
Cash collateral is included as part of cash equivalents.
These transactions are entered into under terms and conditions that are standard industry practice to securities borrowing and lending activities.
ii Non financial collateral The Group takes other physical collateral to recover outstanding lending exposures in the event of the borrower being unable or unwilling to fulfil its obligations.
This includes mortgages over property both residential and commercial, and liens over business assets including, but not limited to, plant, vehicles, aircraft, inventories and trade debtors and guarantees from parties other than the borrower.
The Group has not disclosed the fair value of collateral held as it is not practicable to do so.
A further analysis of credit risk is provided in notes E3, E4, E6 and F5.
256 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued E3 Loans and advances a Summary The following table shows an analysis of loans and advances: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Home loans 16,474 14,111 Commercial mortgages 6,409 5,325 Properties in possession 74 58 Credit cards 657 556 Overdrafts 1,035 895 Policyholder loans 263 260 Other loans to clients 4,513 4,443 Preference shares and debentures 1,396 1,142 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 5,381 4,474 Gross investment 5,761 4,948 Unearned finance charges 380 474 Factoring accounts 183 29 24 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 78 Term loans 5,852 4,746 Remittances in transit 9 15 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 955 192 Gross loans and advances 43,225 36,324 Provisions for impairment Specific provisions 660 407 172 Portfolio provision 172 Total net loans and advances 42,393 35,745 Non-performing loans included above had a book value less impairment provisions of 1,617 million 2008: 870 million.
Of the loans and advances shown above, 13,038 million 2008: 11,268 million is receivable within one year of the reporting date and is regarded as current.
29,355 million 2008: 24,477 million is regarded as non-current based on the maturity profile of the assets.
The table below gives an age analysis of loans and advances representing primarily the exposures of the Groups banking operations.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Neither past due nor impaired 37,670 32,065 Past due but not impaired 3,279 2,982 Past due but less than 1 month 2,631 2,198 Past due, greater than 1 month but less than 3 months 566 618 Past due, greater than 3 months but less than 6 months 28 6 Past due, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year 36 3 Past due more than 1 year 18 157 Impaired loans and advances individually impaired 2,276 1,277 Gross loans and advances 43,225 36,324 Provisions for impairment 832 579 Total net loans and advances 42,393 35,745 Old Mutual plc 257 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The neither past due nor impaired loans and advances can be further analysed by credit rating as follows: m At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 SubSubInvestment investment Investment investment grade grade Not rated Total grade grade Not rated Total Home loans 220 9,358 3,980 13,558 92 7,638 3,627 11,357 Commercial mortgages 493 5,572 15 6,080 580 4,637 5,217 Properties in possession Credit cards 91 434 44 569 2 429 30 461 Overdrafts 58 500 204 762 46 568 160 774 Policyholder loans 484 484 153 153 Other loans to clients 2,926 1,317 134 4,377 2,115 1,895 211 4,221 Preference shares and debentures 422 3,762 183 4,367 167 3,780 46 3,993 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 649 735 1,384 449 685 4 1,138 Factoring accounts 181 181 1 21 22 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 13 11 24 37 42 79 Term loans 3,988 1,075 80 5,143 3,179 1,185 79 4,443 Remittances in transit 5 4 9 9 6 15 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 732 732 192 192 Gross loans and advances 9,597 22,945 5,128 37,670 6,869 20,880 4,316 32,065 Collateral is held as security against certain loans and advances detailed above, with this principally consisting of cash, properties and letters of credit.
Movements in provisions for impairment of loans and advances are analysed as follows: m Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Specific Portfolio Total Specific Portfolio Total impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment Loans and advances Balance at beginning of the year 407 172 579 322 130 452 Income statement charge 528 19 509 279 41 320 Amounts written off against the provision 378 378 215 2 217 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 25 25 Foreign exchange and other movements 103 19 122 4 3 1 Balance at end of the year 660 172 832 407 172 579 During the year under review, the Group recognised collateral in the amount of 74 million 2008: 58 million in the statement of financial position.
These amounts are being included in the loans and advances above as properties in possession.
258 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Finance lease and instalment debtors m Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum receivable lease payments receivable At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Amounts receivable under finance leases 2009 2008 2009 2008 Within one year 974 882 843 741 In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,771 3,283 4,525 2,954 After five years 16 783 13 779 5,761 4,948 5,381 4,474 Less: unearned finance income 380 474 Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 5,381 4,474 5,381 4,474 The accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable is 134 million 2008: 117 million.
E4: Investments and securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Government and  securities 8,168 8,976 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 20,526 19,116 Listed 14,821 14,069 Unlisted 5,705 5,047 Equity securities 19,986 16,179 Listed 18,496 14,976 Unlisted 1,490 1,203 Pooled investments 45,807 35,046 Listed 5,741 5,215 Unlisted 40,066 29,831 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,859 3,989 Other 115 216 Total investments and securities 98,461 83,522 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity profile.
Of the amounts shown above, 48,226 million 2008: 40,905 million is regarded as current and 50,235 million 2008: 42,617 million are regarded as non-current.
a Debt instruments and similar securities The following table shows an age analysis of the portfolio of debt instruments and similar securities: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Neither past due nor impaired 32,346 32,091 Impaired 322 206 Total debt instruments and similar securities 32,668 32,297 Old Mutual plc 259 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The following table shows an analysis of the carrying values of the Groups portfolio of debt and similar securities according to their credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent, by investment grade: m Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and At 31 December 2009 securities debentures securities Other Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 6,324 15,745 2,193 24,262 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 696 696 Not rated 1,844 4,085 1,666 115 7,710 8,168 20,526 3,859 115 32,668 m Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and At 31 December 2008 securities debentures securities Other Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 7,029 14,969 3,601 25,599 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 312 312 Not rated 1,947 3,835 388 216 6,386 8,976 19,116 3,989 216 32,297 In general, no collateral is taken in respect of the Groups holdings of debt instruments and similar securities.
United States US Life incurred impairment losses of 248 million 2008: US Life & Bermuda 414 million and cumulative net unrealised losses of 307 million 2008: US Life & Bermuda 1,800 million and the following analysis on the US Life debt instruments and similar securities portfolio and of its fair value gains and losses gives further information as to the quality and spread of the investment portfolio.
US Life are the only business unit where the investment portfolio is categorised as Available-for-sale.
US Life NAIC designation For US statutory reporting, debt securities are classified into six categories specified by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
The categories range from class 1 the highest to class 6 the lowest.
Classes 1 to 5 are regarded as performing.
Class 6 securities are regarded as in or near default.
Generally, classes 1 and 2 are regarded as investment grade by nationally recognised ratings agencies, classes 3, 4, 5 and 6 securities are non-investment grade securities.
m At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 US Life US Life & Bermuda Carrying Carrying value % of total value % of total 1 5,183 54.5% 6,253 62.2% 2 3,727 39.2% 3,526 35.1% 3 507 5.3% 209 2.0% 4 54 0.6% 27 0.3% 5 30 0.3% 31 0.3% 6 8 0.1% 5 0.1% 9,509 100.0% 10,051 100.0% 260 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued US Life Securities rating by sector The following table analyses by carrying value the securities portfolio by sector and investment rating: % US Life BB and At 31 December 2009 AAA AA A BBB below Total Finance 3 2 2 2 1 10 Banking 1 2 8 5 1 17 Utility 3 7 10 Communications 3 5 8 Insurance 3 4 1 8 Energy 1 4 5 4 4 Manufacturing Other 17 5 5 8 3 38 Total 21 9 25 39 6 100 % US Life and Bermuda BB and At 31 December 2008 AAA AA A BBB below Total Finance 1 7 5 1 14 Banking 1 1 7 5 14 Utility 2 6 8 Communications 3 4 7 Insurance 3 3 6 Energy 2 3 5 Manufacturing 1 1 2 Other 27 3 4 8 2 44 Total 28 5 29 35 3 100 Old Mutual plc 261 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued US Life Securities by industry The following table analyses by carrying value the securities portfolio by industry: % At At 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 US Life and US Life Bermuda Affiliated 1 4 Air transport 1 Asset backed 4 6 Automotive 1 Banking 17 14 Basic industries 4 2 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS 8 10 Communications 9 6 Consumer cyclical 2 2 Consumer non-cyclical 4 2 Energy 5 5 Entertainment 1 Finance 11 14 Insurance 7 6 International 1 Manufacturing 3 2 Municipal 1 1 7 Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS 10 Technology 2 1 Transportation 2 1 Treasury 2 1 Utility 11 9 Total 100 100 Further information on the book values, fair values and unrealised gains and losses within the debt securities portfolio held by the Groups US subsidiary, US Life, is given in the following tables.
262 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued US Life fair value gains and losses At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 US Life and US Life Bermuda Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 5,634 9,525 Unrealised loss 552 1,935 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 5,082 7,590 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 4,182 2,326 Unrealised gain 245 135 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 4,427 2,461 Total Book value 9,816 11,851 Unrealised loss 307 1,800 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 9,509 10,051 The above analysis includes unrealised losses in relation to those securities that were reclassified in accordance with the provisions of the October 2008 amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which had an aggregate carrying value as at 31 December 2009 of 946 million 2008: US Life & Bermuda 1,262 million and aggregate fair value as at 31 December 2009 of 918 million 2008: US Life & Bermuda 972 million.
Included in the above are the amounts relating to sub-prime, Alt-A, CMBS and RMBS securities of: m At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 US Life US Life and Bermuda Unrealised Unrealised Fair value loss Fair value loss Sub-prime 214 51 312 141 Alt-A 27 4 33 10 CMBS 806 49 973 288 RMBS 390 3 1,036 39 Total 1,437 107 2,354 478 US Life debt securities in an unrealised loss position The following table excludes unrealised gains: m US Life Unrealised At 31 December 2009 Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 3,312 109 Between 80% and 90% 1,151 204 Below 80% 619 239 Total 5,082 552 Old Mutual plc 263 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m US Life and Bermuda Unrealised At 31 December 2008 Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 2,686 135 Between 80% and 90% 1,814 308 Below 80% 3,090 1,492 Total 7,590 1,935 Included in the above are the amounts relating to sub-prime, Alt-A, CMBS and RMBS securities of: m US Life Unrealised At 31 December 2009 Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 289 12 Between 80% and 90% 250 46 163 77 Below 80% Total 702 135 m US Life and Bermuda Unrealised At 31 December 2008 Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 738 34 Between 80% and 90% 232 38 Below 80% 554 428 Total 1,524 500 Aged analysis of unrealised losses for the time periods indicated The following table excludes unrealised gains: m US Life SubInvestment investment At 31 December 2009 grade grade Total Less than 6 months 16 1 17 6 months to 1 year 16 11 27 Over 1 year 425 83 508 457 95 552 m US Life and Bermuda SubInvestment investment At 31 December 2008 grade grade Total Less than 6 months 161 5 166 6 months to 1 year 667 47 714 Over 1 year 1,006 49 1,055 1,834 101 1,935 264 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued E5: Securities lending The Group participates in securities lending where securities holdings are lent to third parties.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated balance sheet but are retained within the relevant investment classification.
Collateral is held in respect of the loaned securities, with the level of holding in relation to the underlying securities lent being dependant on the quality of collateral.
The table below represents the amounts lent and the related collateral received: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Amounts lent under securities lending Equity securities 626 430 Debt securities 230 522 856 952 Amounts received as collateral for securities lending Cash 782 903 Debt securities 74 49 856 952 The cash collateral above has been recognised in the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability to return the collateral included in other liabilities.
Of the collateral included in the table above, 856 million 2008: 952 million can be sold or repledged and nil 2008: nil has been sold or repledged.
In addition the Group has provided 1 million in cash collateral and 92 million in debt securities collateral 2008: 322 million under repurchase arrangements.
E6: Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group utilises the following derivative instruments for both hedging and non-hedging purposes: Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or underlying equities, or indices, or interest rates, or to buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price established in an organised financial market an Exchange.
Since futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the Exchange, the credit risk is negligible.
Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate contracts that call for a cash settlement at a future date for the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are individually negotiated contracts that require settlement of the pre-agreed currency amounts at a future date.
Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates or a combination of both ie cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Except for certain currency swaps, no exchange of principal takes place.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligation.
This risk is monitored continuously with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, options are contractual agreements under which the writer grants the holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument or amount of assets determined by reference to an index at a predetermined price.
In consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, interest rate or asset price risk, the seller receives a premium from the purchaser.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer over-the-counter.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the statement of financial position, but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become in-the-money or out-of-the-money as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or asset prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are in-the-money or out-of-the-money and, therefore, the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
Old Mutual plc 265 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end.
These instruments allow the Group and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their credit, equity market, foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2009 values values Assets Liabilities Equity derivatives Options written 758 6 166 Options purchased 976 39 217 12 Futures 599 106 3 1 1,575 903 226 179 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 6,420 6,255 1,237 1,013 Swaps 1,619 712 177 88 Options purchased 368 13 Futures 7 5 Options written 368 12 8,414 7,340 1,427 1,113 Interest rate contracts Swaps 16,820 15,310 555 570 Forward rate agreements 3,644 5,363 5 8 Options purchased 1,663 1,163 167 1 Options written 391 9 Futures 864 1,552 81 74 Caps 195 580 11 9 23,186 24,359 819 671 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 65 127 73 5 Credit default swaps 65 127 73 5 Other derivatives 8 1 22 Total 33,248 32,729 2,546 1,990 266 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2008 values values Assets Liabilities Equity derivatives Options written 863 114 Options purchased 803 1 33 Futures 251 215 8 4 1,054 1,079 41 118 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 9,408 9,872 2,022 2,021 Swaps 1,912 1,483 274 154 Options purchased 357 47 Futures Options written 358 49 11,677 11,713 2,343 2,224 Interest rate contracts Swaps 14,397 10,621 485 430 Forward rate agreements 4,417 4,543 116 94 Options purchased 2,997 1,256 73 12 Options written 1,821 10 Futures 2,027 1,686 101 90 Caps 253 253 3 1 24,091 20,180 778 637 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 128 140 66 11 Credit default swaps 57 60 185 200 66 11 Other derivatives 229 Total 37,007 33,401 3,228 2,990 The contractual maturities of the derivatives held are as follows: m More than No 3 months Between contractual Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity At 31 December 2009 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total Derivative financial liabilities 1,990 811 421 388 344 1,964 m More than No 3 months Between contractual Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity At 31 December 2008 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total Derivative financial liabilities 2,990 1,152 926 582 420 3,080 Old Mutual plc 267 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued An analysis of the credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent of the Groups derivative financial assets is as follows: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Investment grade 1,244 1,854 Sub-investment grade Not rated 1,302 1,374 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,546 3,228 E7: Hedge accounting Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedge accounting is applied in respect of the Groups exposures to foreign currency risk.
The Group hedges its foreign currency risk on one of its existing euro loan borrowings by entering into foreign currency swaps for USD.
These swaps are separated, for accounting purposes, into a EUR GBP swap and a GBP USD swap.
Cash flow hedge accounting is applied to the EUR GBP swap.
At 31 December 2009 the EUR GBP swaps had a notional principal of 27 million 30 million 2008: 29 million 30 million and a fair value of 5 million 2008: 7 million.
The GBP USD swap qualifies as a net investment hedge, as discussed below.
The maturity date of the final EUR USD swap of 30 million is 11 July 2010 and matches the repayment of the corresponding bond.
The cash flow hedge reserve will be released to the income statement over the remaining life of the swap to offset the currency movements on the loan.
An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is shown in the table below: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges at the reporting date Cross currency interest rate swap 30 million Euro loan borrowing 5 7 5 7 Analysis of movements in cash flow hedge reserve Cash flow hedge at beginning of the year 2 Amount recognised in equity during the year 2 Amount removed from equity and recognised in income statement during the year Finance costs borrowed funds Cash flow hedge reserve at end of the year 2 2 The cash flow hedge reserve is included in Other reserves in the statement of changes in equity.
In respect of the cross currency swap discussed above, cash flows will occur annually on 11 July until 11 July 2010.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of either of the above cash flow hedges during the financial year 2008: nil.
268 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and debt raised in the currency of the exposure to mitigate the translation effect of holding overseas companies.
The following table summarises the Groups open positions with respect to financial instruments utilised for net investment hedging purposes: m At 31 December 2009 EUR USD ZAR SEK Forward contracts 113 95 1 Currency swaps 321 353 2 Debt 31 55 113 352 150 353 m At 31 December 2008 EUR USD ZAR SEK Forward contracts 20 232 86 1 Currency swaps 356 356 2 Debt 96 303 96 679 232 442 1 Excludes $35 million 2008: $35 million of currency swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
2 Excludes $750 million and 500 million 2008: $750 million and 500 million of financial instruments accounted as non-controlling interests or as equity.
An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as net investment hedges is shown in the table below: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Fair value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges at the reporting date 30 million cross currency swap fair value of net investment hedge only 2 SEK forward foreign exchange contracts 2 ZAR forward foreign exchange contracts 4 25 300 million cross currency swap 53 57 750 million cross currency swap 53 84 110 170 The 30 million Euro loan borrowing cross currency swap is designated to hedge the foreign exchange currency exposure to USD assets in respect of the Groups investment in its US operations.
The ZAR forwards are designated as hedges against the foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in its South African operations.
SEK forwards are used to hedge foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in Skandia.
The 300 million cross currency swap is used to hedge SEK currency risk on SEK based assets in the Groups net investment in Skandia.
The GBP to USD 246 million to $486 million leg of the 750 million cross currency is used to hedge USD currency risk on the USD based assets in the Groups net investment in US operations.
Old Mutual plc 269 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued E8: Policyholder liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December Gross Reinsurance 2009 Net Gross Reinsurance 2008 Net Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 27,549 539 27,010 28,106 550 27,556 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 57,372 717 56,655 45,161 551 44,610 Other investment contracts 1,859 1,859 1,965 1,965 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,639 6,639 5,647 5,647 457 40 417 Outstanding claims 390 47 343 93,876 1,296 92,580 81,269 1,148 80,121 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 49 10 39 45 8 37 Unearned premiums 94 38 56 79 26 53 229 72 157 Outstanding claims 220 81 139 372 120 252 344 115 229 Life assurance policyholder and general insurance liabilities 94,248 1,416 92,832 81,613 1,263 80,350 Of the 1,416 million 2008: 1,263 million included in reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder and general insurance liabilities is an amount of 919 million 2008: 705 million which is classified as current, the remainder being non-current.
Of the 146 million 2008: 164 million included in deposits held with reinsurers 110 million 2008: 124 million is classified as current, the remainder being non-current.
Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of life assurance policyholder liabilities, other than outstanding claims, are set out below.
a Insurance contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Gross Reinsurance 2009 Net Gross Reinsurance 2008 Net Balance at beginning of the year 28,106 550 27,556 23,637 727 22,910 Income Premium income 2,549 158 2,391 4,062 152 3,910 Investment income 1,623 1,623 993 993 Other income 5 5 2 2 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 3,369 165 3,204 3,681 147 3,534 Operating expenses 372 372 290 290 Currency translation loss gain 97 44 53 4,320 151 4,169 Other charges and transfers 594 48 642 1,229 326 1,555 Taxation 19 19 12 12 Transfer to operating profit 283 8 275 192 7 185 Balance at end of the year 27,549 539 27,010 28,106 550 27,556 270 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts, and other investment contracts Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of the year 47,126 53,745 New contributions received 9,822 8,616 Maturities 656 762 Withdrawals and surrenders 5,703 5,470 Fair value movements 8,345 10,085 Foreign exchange and other movements 297 1,082 Balance at end of the year 59,231 47,126 Of the liabilities shown in the above table, 1,178 million 2008: 1,434 million are recorded at amortised cost with the remainder being designated at fair value through the income statement.
c Discretionary participating investment contracts Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of the year 5,647 6,404 Income Premium income 659 524 Investment income 774 362 Currency translation losses gains 867 128 2,300 34 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 1,050 641 Operating expenses 68 59 Other charges and transfers 145 31 Taxation 4 3 1,267 728 Transfer to operating profit 41 63 Balance at end of the year 6,639 5,647 Old Mutual plc 271 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued d Contractual maturity analysis The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash flows based on contractual maturity dates for investment contract liabilities and discretionary participating financial instruments, and expected claim dates for insurance contracts.
The Group acknowledges that for general insurance the unearned premium provision, which will be recognised as earned premium in the future, will most likely not lead to claim cash outflows equal to this provision.
The Group has however adopted a conservative approach in estimating future cash outflows associated with unearned premiums, by assuming a 100% combined ratio.
m Undiscounted cash flows More than 3 months Between Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than At 31 December 2009 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total Life assurance Insurance contracts 27,549 920 2,454 13,360 30,465 47,199 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 57,372 52,324 469 1,005 3,583 57,381 1,859 36 675 614 840 2,165 Other investment contracts Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,639 6,398 6,398 Outstanding claims 457 454 18 40 53 565 93,876 60,132 3,616 15,019 34,941 113,708 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 49 32 10 7 49 Unearned premium 94 61 19 14 94 229 149 46 34 229 Outstanding claims 372 242 75 55 372 94,248 60,374 3,691 15,074 34,941 114,080 m Undiscounted cash flows More than 3 months Between Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than At 31 December 2008 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total Life assurance Insurance contracts 28,106 1,046 2,426 12,912 31,690 48,074 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 45,161 41,555 369 666 2,970 45,560 Other investment contracts 1,965 39 112 590 1,282 2,023 Discretionary participating investment contracts 5,647 5,944 14 69 149 6,176 Outstanding claims 390 346 12 30 68 456 81,269 48,930 2,933 14,267 36,159 102,289 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 45 27 16 2 45 Unearned premium 79 4 49 26 79 Outstanding claims 220 145 57 18 220 344 176 122 46 344 81,613 49,106 3,055 14,313 36,159 102,633 272 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued e Assumptions Insurance contract provisions together with provisions for investment contracts with discretionary participating features are calculated based upon assumptions determined in accordance with local accounting requirements.
As described in the accounting policies, these vary significantly between geographies and are therefore discussed separately below.
South Africa In the calculation of liabilities, provision has been made for: the current best-estimate of future experience, as described below: the compulsory margins as set out in the Actuarial Society professional guidance notes: plus discretionary margins reflecting mainly the excess of capital charges over the compulsory investment margin of 0.25% for policies that are valued prospectively.
These discretionary margins cause capital charges to be included in operating profits as they are charged and ensure that profits are released appropriately over the term of each policy.
Other discretionary margins, mainly held to cover: mortality, lapse and investment return margins for Group Schemes funeral policies, due to the additional risk associated with this business, and to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the term of the policies: mortality margins on Individual Business life policies, accidental death supplementary benefits, and disability supplementary benefits, due to uncertainty about future experience: margins on certain Individual Business non-profit annuities, due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the limited availability of long-dated bonds, expense margins in the pricing basis for Employee Benefits annuities: profit margins on Employee Benefits non-profit annuities to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the life of the policies: interest margins on Employee Benefits PHI claims in payment due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the high rate of change in the portfolio high volume of new claimants and terminations : and margins on the investment guarantee reserves to mitigate the sensitivity of the reserves calculated on a market-consistent basis to market interest rates in particular.
Liabilities include provisions to meet financial options and guarantees on a market-consistent basis, and make due allowance for potential lapses, paid-ups and surrenders, based on levels recently experienced.
Mortality and disability rates assumed are consistent with Old Mutuals recent experience, or expected future experience if this would result in a higher liability.
In particular, allowance has been made for the expected deterioration in assured lives experience due to AIDS, and for the expected improvement in annuitant mortality.
The provision for expenses before allowing for margins starts at a level consistent with recent experience and allows for an escalation thereafter.
The future gross investment returns by major asset categories and expense inflation excluding margins assumed for South Africa insurance business are as follows: % At At 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Fixed interest securities 9.5 7.5 Cash 7.5 5.5 13.0 Equities 11.0 Properties 11.0 9.0 Future expense inflation 6.5 4.5 8.5 % 2008: 6.5% for Individual Business administered on old platforms and 7.5% 2008: 5.5% for Group Schemes business.
For non-profit annuities, liabilities are determined by calculating the present value of projected future benefits and expenses, valued using current fixed-interest yields or swap curve yields.
Old Mutual plc 273 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Assumptions are based upon experience as analysed in the following investigations: Type of business Type of investigation Period of investigation Individual Business Flexi business mortality 2003 to 2006 Conventional business mortality 1999 to 2000 Annuitant mortality 2005 to 2007 Greenlight mortality 2001 to 2007 Dread Disease 2000 to 2002 Disability 2000 to 2002 Persistency Flexi and Conventional 2008 Persistency Greenlight 2003 to 2008 Group Schemes Mortality 2008 Persistency 2008 to 2009 Employee Benefits Annuitant Mortality 2000 to 2004 Group Assurance mortality and disability Ongoing for the purpose of setting scheme rates experience All Expenses For all business units the expense assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
In addition to these detailed experience investigations, the 2009 analysis of profit provides a measure of the aggregate experience in 2009.
During this valuation period, actual decrement experience was in aggregate more favourable than the valuation assumptions, excluding special project expenditure.
Various actuarial assumption changes have been made which have resulted in a net decrease in the value of liabilities of 61 million 2008: 11 million increase on the Published basis.
Lower expense assumptions reduced liabilities by 15 million, lower assurance mortality assumptions reduced liabilities by 45 million, and higher economic assumptions reduced liabilities by 11 million.
Methodology changes and error corrections further reduced liabilities by 25 million.
These were partially offset by a strengthening of persistency assumptions which increased liabilities by 35 million.
A change in the rate of assumed future cover increased on certain risk products which reduced liabilities by 24 million.
The assumed changes exclude the impact on new business sold in 2009, as this is valued on the new basis.
United States Insurance contract provisions and Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC balances for traditional insurance products with fixed premiums and benefits measured according to FAS 60 under US GAAP are calculated using mortality, lapse, expense and discount assumptions as at inception of the contract.
These assumptions are determined based on managements best estimate, reflecting actual and expected experience, and also include provision for adverse deviation.
The assumptions are locked in as of the date of issue, and are revised only where liability adequacy testing based on current best estimate assumptions results in loss recognition.
In 2008 the liability for guarantees on the fixed indexed annuity product was reduced by 184 million due to the effect of changes in credit risk.
Changes to lapse assumptions in the on-shore deferred annuity and fixed index annuity business resulted in a 68 million reduction in DAC.
Segregation of the business led to an increase in liabilities in respect of the on-shore life contingent single premium immediate annuity SPIA product of 235 million as a result of changes to mortality assumptions.
For insurance products with flexible premiums or benefits measured according to FAS 97 under US GAAP, the account value is held as the base insurance contract provision, and the assumptions below are therefore not applicable.
DAC balances, and additional reserves held for items including lapse guarantees, persistency bonuses and gains followed by losses, utilise best estimate assumptions as of the valuation date.
Mortality rates vary by gender and issue age: lapse rates vary by issue age and duration.
Europe Insurance contract provisions for the Groups Europe life assurance operations are limited, and principally comprise technical provisions for pure disability and death benefit cover sold in the United Kingdom and Sweden, together with death benefit risk cover in respect of unit-linked assurance products.
Insurance risk Insurance risk arises through exposure to unfavourable claims experience on life assurance, critical illness and other protection business and exposure to unfavourable operating experience in respect of factors such as persistency levels and management expenses.
Insurance risk arises due to uncertainty in persistency, expenses and mortality and morbidity claim rates, relative to the actuarial assumptions made in the pricing process which may prevent the firm from achieving its profit objectives.
The Skandia UK group has developed an insurance risk policy which sets out the practices which are used to manage insurance risk and the management information and stress testing requirements.
As well as management of persistency, expense and claims experience, the 274 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued insurance risk policy sets requirements and standards on matters such as underwriting and claims management practices, use of reinsurance to mitigate insurance risk, application of charges in respect of taxation and exercise of discretion.
The insurance risk profile and experience is closely monitored to ensure that the exposure remains acceptable.
The financial impact of insurance risk events is examined through stress tests carried out within the ICA and Economic Capital assessment.
Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity risk is the risk that death, critical illness and disability claims are higher than expected within the operations pricing assumptions.
Possible causes are unexpected epidemics of new diseases and widespread changes in lifestyle such as eating, smoking and exercise habits.
For contracts where survival is the insured risk, the most significant factor is continued improvement in medical science and social conditions that increase longevity.
Higher than expected levels of claims will cause emerging profit to be lower than expected.
For unit-linked contracts a risk charge is applied to meet the expected cost of the insured benefit.
This risk charge can be altered in the event of significant changes in the expectation for future claims experience, subject to treating customers fairly principles.
The operations do not transact group protection business and there are no material concentrations of mortality and morbidity risk.
The operations manage mortality risks through their underwriting policy and external reinsurance arrangements where their policy is to retain certain types of insurance risks within specified maximum single event loss limits.
Exposures above accepted limits are transferred to reinsurance counterparties.
The sensitivity of future earnings to changes in mortality, morbidity, persistency experience and management expense levels is regularly monitored through sensitivity analyses performed for MCEV reporting and business planning.
Persistency Persistency risk is the risk that a policyholder surrenders, transfers or ceases premium payments for their contracts with the operations in a volume that has not been expected within the pricing assumptions thereby leading to a reduction in financial profit and an impact on liquidity.
Most insurance contracts can be surrendered before maturity for a cash surrender value.
For insurance business, the surrender value is never more than the current reported value of the contract liability.
In order to limit this risk to an acceptable level, charging and commission structures are designed to limit the risk of direct financial loss on surrender.
Persistency statistics are monitored monthly.
Actions may be triggered as a result of higher than expected lapse rates and significant emerging trends.
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out on an annual basis.
In the short term, profit is not materially impacted by changes in persistency experience that are reasonably foreseeable.
Expenses Expense risk is the risk that actual expenses exceed expense levels assumed in product pricing.
This may result in emerging profit falling below the companys profit objectives.
Expense levels are monitored quarterly against budgets and forecasts.
An activity based costing process is used to allocate costs relating to processes and activities to individual product lines.
Some products structures include maintenance charges.
These charges are reviewed annually in light of changes in maintenance expense levels.
This review may result in changes in charge levels, subject to treating customers fairly principles.
Tax Tax risk is the risk that insufficient tax is collected from the policyholders because the projected taxation basis for basic life assurance business is incorrect resulting in contracts being incorrectly priced.
The taxation position of the operations is projected annually and tax changes will result in changes to new business pricing models as part of the annual control cycle.
High risk issues and emerging trends are reported internally on a quarterly basis.
f Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk in the case of life assurance or risk of loss from fire, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is defined as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with significant insurance risk are classified as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignificant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
Old Mutual plc 275 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued i Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Groups exposure to insurance risk varies depending on the nature of its operations and their location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage insurance risk separately through its principal operations, subject to appropriate central Corporate supervision and monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur significant insurance risk are: OMLAC SA life assurance in South Africa Old Mutual US Life life assurance in the United States Old Mutual Bermuda life assurance in Bermuda Mutual & Federal general insurance in South Africa The Groups other insurance operations include long-term insurance in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and Latin America, Namibia, and Rest of World, but do not give rise to significant insurance risks relative to the Group as a whole.
Exposure to insurance risk in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations is limited, as the unbundled insurance component of those products is insignificant in comparison to the rest of the Old Mutual Group.
The Group effectively manages its insurance risks through the following mechanisms: the diversification of business over several classes of insurance and a number of geographical segments and large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks, by which the Group seeks to reduce variability in loss experience: the maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed: actuarial models, which use the above information to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
Past experience and statistical methods are used: guidelines for concluding insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks.
These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures: reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes.
When selecting a reinsurer, consideration is given to those companies that provide high security.
In order to assess this, rating information from both public and private sources is used: and the mix of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities.
The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are sufficient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities.
Hedging instruments are used at times to limit exposure to equity market and interest rate movements.
276 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued ii Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa, United States and Bermuda The terms and conditions attaching to insurance contracts determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following tables outline the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts sold in each category of business, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group: South Africa Policyholder Policyholder participation Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees in investment return Individual Life Flexi Mortality morbidity rates Mortality, morbidity Some investment Varies performance, cover and business with cover may be repriced regular premium contracts annuity guarantees Conventional with cover Charges fixed at inception Mortality, morbidity Some investment Varies and cannot be changed performance and annuity guarantees Greenlight Charges fixed at inception Mortality, morbidity, Rates fixed for a specified None and cannot be changed expense number of years for a specified term Group Schemes funeral Charges fixed at inception Mortality including HIV Rates fixed for a specified None cover and cannot be changed AIDS, expense number of years for a specified number of years Employee Benefits Rates are annually Mortality, morbidity No significant guarantees, None Group Assurance renewable except for PHI claims in payment for which benefit payment schedule is guaranteed Non-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration With-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Investment Underlying pricing interest Yes participating in profits in rate is guaranteed.
return for consideration Declared bonuses cannot be reduced The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders varies based on the type of contract.
Where the contracts are pure risk type, there is no sharing of investment returns.
For other contracts, investment return is attributed to the policyholder.
Declared bonuses may be either vesting and or non-vesting in which case they can be removed in adverse circumstances.
Smoothed bonus products constitute a significant proportion of the business.
Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the declaration of bonuses is done in a responsible manner, such that sufficient reserves are retained for bonus smoothing purposes.
Investment returns not distributed after deducting charges are credited to bonus smoothing reserves, which are used to support subsequent bonus declarations.
Old Mutual plc 277 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued United States Policyholder Policyholder participation Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees in investment return Life term Renewable term products Mortality, expense Premium guarantees from None offering coverage for level 1 to 30 years, return of periods ranging from 1 to premium guarantees 30 years Universal life Flexible and fixed premium Mortality, expense, Secondary non-lapse Yes, through the crediting interest sensitive life investment guarantees max of 15 rate insurance with cash value years or to age 95 : cost build up of insurance mortality charge guarantees Equity indexed annuities Single and flexible Mortality, investment, Minimum caps, maximum Yes, through the index premium accumulation hedging spread guarantees, annuities with upside maximum spread, potential of equity indexed minimum interest returns on their account guarantees value Fixed deferred annuities Single and flexible Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed Limited crediting rates premium accumulation accumulation rates and are reset at specified annuities annuitisation rates intervals Equity indexed Flexible premium interest Mortality, investment, Secondary non-lapse Yes, through the index and universal life sensitive whole life hedging guarantees: cost of crediting rates are reset at products with upside insurance mortality specified intervals potential of equity indexed charge guarantees: returns on their account minimum caps: maximum value and a fixed account spread guarantees option Immediate payout Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None guaranteed in return for is guaranteed Annuities consideration Variable annuities Accumulation annuities Mortality, investment, Minimum guaranteed Yes, through separate with policyholder hedging death benefit and Accounts and crediting investments in separate minimum guaranteed rates are reset at specified accounts and a fixed accumulation benefit intervals account option which may include a minimum rate of return or waiver of surrender charges 278 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Bermuda Policyholder Policyholder participation Category Essential terms Main risks guarantees in investment return Variable Annuities Accumulation annuities Mortality, Persistency, Minimum guaranteed Yes, through separate with policyholder Market, Hedging, Volatility, death benefit and account and credited rates investments in separate Basis Risk maturity benefit: credited on fixed account accounts and a fixed rate guarantee on fixed account option account option Fixed Deferred Annuities Single and flexible Persistency, Investment Credited rate over Via credited rates and premium accumulation specified period renewal rates on rate annuities with credited rate expiration over specified duration: flexible premiums Fixed Index Annuities Single premium Persistency, Investment, Market participation with Yes, through index credits accumulation annuities hedging no downside minimum with upside potential of interest guarantees equity indexed returns on their account value In addition to the specific risks identified above, the Group is subject to the risk that policyholders discontinue the insurance policy, through lapse or surrender.
iii Management of insurance risks life assurance The table below summarises the variety of risks to which the Groups life assurance operations are exposed, and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate these risks.
Risk Definition Risk management Underwriting Misalignment of policyholders to the appropriate pricing Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life basis or impact of anti-selection, resulting in a loss business, mortality rates can be reset.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and critical illness Impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible cover by writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
Tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values are conducted.
A negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates Medical developments Possible increase in annuity costs due to policyholders For non-profit annuities, improvements to living longer mortality are allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profit or loss is reflected in the bonuses declared Changing financial Lower swap curves and higher volatilities cause investment A discretionary margin is added to the value of market conditions guarantee reserves to increase guarantees, determined on a market-consistent stochastic basis and included in current reserves.
A partial hedge is in place South Africa.
Fewer and lower guarantees are typically provided on new business South Africa.
Certain guarantees are reinsured United States Policyholder behaviour Selection of more expensive options, or lapse and re-entry Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder when premium rates are falling, or termination of policy, behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation which may cause the sale of assets at inopportune times Old Mutual plc 279 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Risk Definition Risk management Catastrophe Natural and non-natural disasters, including war terrorism, Catastrophe stop loss excess of loss reinsurance could result in increased mortality risk and payouts on treaty in place which covers claims from one policies incident occurring within a specified period between a range of specified limits Policy lapse A policyholder option to terminate the policy, which may Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder cause the sale of assets at inopportune times.
This creates behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation the risk of capital losses and or reinvestment risk if market yields have decreased Many of the above risks are concentrated, either geographically in the case of catastrophe or by line of business for example, medical developments, HIV AIDS.
The Group, through diversification in the types of business it writes and its geographic spread, attempts to mitigate this concentration of risk.
See Segment Analysis, in the preceding section, for illustration of this.
iv Sensitivity analysis life assurance Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract provisions recorded, with impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: offset partial or full to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of smoothed bonus products in South Africa: offset partial or full through DAC amortisation in the case of US business: and the effect of locked-in assumptions under USGAAP accounting, where assumptions underlying the insurance contract provisions are not changed until liabilities are not adequate after reflecting current best estimates.
The net increase or decrease to insurance contract provisions recorded as of 31 December 2009 has been estimated as follows: % m m m South Assumption Change Africa US Bermuda Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10 209 16 Mortality rates annuities 10 45 4 Discontinuance rates 10 1 15 26 Expenses maintenance 10 61 4 1 The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the South African business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1% would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 58 million 2008: 66 million.
There is no impact for the US businesses as the valuation rate is locked-in.
South Africa The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity reflects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense inflation rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched eg non-profit annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
United States The assumption changes have relatively little impact on the US net IFRS insurance contract liabilities or DAC on life and immediate annuities, as assumptions are generally locked-in.
For universal life and deferred annuities, assumptions supporting the Present Value Future Profits PVFP Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation are periodically updated for actual experience.
Each of these assumption changes would trigger a DAC unlocking.
The assumption changes specified do not approach the levels necessary to trigger a change in liabilities or DAC.
Bermuda Assumption changes on Bermuda business have counterbalancing effects.
Lapses and partial withdrawals have the largest impact where increased activity hurts future fees and hence impact DAC negatively.
However, such activity helps the guarantee portion of the business since less death and living benefit exposure is expected in the future.
Thus, anti-selective behaviour eg business with little or no guarantees redeem at a faster rate presents the bigger challenge but it is accounted for in both the DAC and guarantee reserve calculations.
Mortality plays a much smaller part in the Bermudian business since all the business is accumulation savings type business.
Increased deaths do accelerate payment of guaranteed minimum death benefits but there is a comparable release of reserve on the maturity guarantee providing an offset about 85% of the variable annuity business has both death living benefits.
280 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued v Guarantees and options life assurance Many of the insurance contracts issued by the Group contain guarantees and options to policyholders, the ultimate liability for which will depend significantly on the number of policyholders exercising their options and on market and investment conditions applying at that time.
South Africa Certain life assurance contracts include the payment of guaranteed values to policyholders on maturity, death, disability or survival.
The published liabilities include the provision for both the intrinsic and time-value of the options and guarantees.
The time-value of options and guarantees has been valued using a market-consistent stochastic asset model that is in keeping with the applicable professional guidance notes issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA, PGN 110 in particular.
The options and guarantees that could have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows are described below.
Product category Description of options and guarantees Individual business Death, disability, point and or A closed block of unit-linked type and smoothed bonus business with an underlying minimum maturity guarantees growth rate guarantee 4.28% per annum for life and endowment business and 4.78% per annum for retirement annuity business, and smoothed bonus business with vested bonuses, applicable when calculating death, disability and maturity claims A small block of smoothed bonus savings business in Group Schemes that has death guarantees of premiums net of fees plus 4.25% per annum investment return Guaranteed annuity options Retirement annuities sold prior to June 1997 contain guaranteed annuity options, whereby the policyholder has an option to exchange the full retirement proceeds for a minimum level of annuity income at maturity Group business Vested bonuses in respect of There is a significant pre-retirement savings smoothed bonus portfolio.
Vested bonuses affect the pre-retirement with-profits business calculation of benefit payments when a member exits from the scheme as the face value is paid out.
If, however, a scheme terminates, the lower of face and market value is paid out and the vested bonuses are not guaranteed United States Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies Product category Description of options and guarantees in-the-money Death, disability, surrender Crediting rates declared for the fixed deferred annuity 24% of policies are currently in-the-money and being point and or maturity block of business vest fully.
They are subject to a credited the minimum rate.
A 300 basis points drop in guarantees minimum crediting rate which is specified in the interest rates would bring 79% of policies in-the-money contract.
Minimum surrender values are determined by this rate Equity indexed annuities offer minimum crediting The minimum surrender values of 17% of policies are rates on the fixed portion of the product, minimum currently in-the-money.
A year of flat equity markets with surrender values based on this and credit equity no equity credits would bring an additional 24% in-theparticipation annually as a percentage of equity money.
Two years of no equity credits would result in growth subject to a maximum %.
This equity 26% of the portfolio being in-the-money.
The equity participation, which is subject to a minimum of 0% exposure is hedged using a hedging strategy therefore vests annually The universal life policies specify a minimum crediting The minimum rate is currently being credited on 77% of rate to accumulate account balances the block Guaranteed All deferred annuities offer a guaranteed annuitisation The extent to which the policies are currently in-theannuity options option on maturity.
The rates are set conservatively money is negligible and typically have very low utilisation as customers in the United States value the choice inherent in a lump-sum payment Old Mutual plc 281 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies Product category Description of options and guarantees in-the-money No-lapse guarantees Certain universal life contracts contain a feature that 17% of policies are currently in-the-money.
This risk is guarantees that the contract will continue, even if reinsured values would otherwise be insufficient, provided the customer has paid at least a stated amount of premium Bermuda Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies Product category Description of options and guarantees in-the-money Index and Credited Rate Equity indexed annuities offer minimum crediting For the index annuities that are out-of-the-money, Guarantees rates on the fixed portion of the product, minimum it would require almost a 10% market increase to surrender values and credit equity participation as a bring them in-the-money ie an index credit would then percentage of equity growth subject to a maximum be made percent Credited rates declared for the fixed deferred annuity block are guaranteed for specific durations.
Upon expiration, renewal rates are set that reflect updated expected earned yields Death and Maturity Both minimum guaranteed death and maturity Approximately 15% of the contracts are out-of-theGuarantees benefits are offered as optional riders for additional money requiring over a 19% decrease in account values fees.
However, standard GMDBs are included in the to bring such policies in-the-money base policy.
The company guarantees regardless of market performance that the customer or its beneficiaries in case of death will receive a minimum value.
Death benefits designs are either return of investment or highest anniversary value.
The maturity benefits promise a minimum account value at maturity eg, 105% at year 5 with more elaborate versions offering dual guarantees eg UGO guarantee promises at years 5 10 a 105% 120% minimum account value, respectively with a highest anniversary in year 10 if elected vi General insurance risks and sensitivities Mutual & Federal writes the following types of business within its commercial, risk finance and personal divisions: Commercial Risk finance Personal 4 4 4 Fire Accident 4 4 4 Personal accident 4 4 4 Motor 4 4 4 Engineering 4 Crop 4 Marine 4 4 4 4 Credit Underwriting guidelines are designed to ensure that underwritten risks are well diversified, and that terms and conditions, including premium rates, appropriately reflect the risk.
Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of risk and exposure at Mutual & Federal.
The Group makes use of a combination of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses and to provide insurance capacity.
Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is limited to approximately 6.3 million for any one event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, in keeping with accepted market norms.
282 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued General insurance risk includes the following risks: occurrence risk the possibility that the number of insured events will differ from those expected: severity risk the possibility that the costs of the events will differ from those expected: and development risk the possibility that changes may occur in the amount of an insurers obligation at the end of a contract period.
An increase of 10% in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 36.1 million.
Similarly, an increase of 10% in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 36.1 million.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classified as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 5% of an average years claim costs.
g Reinsurance assets credit risk None of the Groups reinsurance assets are either past due or impaired.
Of the reinsurance assets shown in the statement of financial position all are considered investment grade with the exception of 87 million of unrated exposures 2008: 17 million.
Collateral is not taken against reinsurance assets or deposits held with reinsurers other than in limited circumstances.
E9: Borrowed funds m Group At Group At excluding 31 December excluding 31 December Notes Nedbank Nedbank 2009 Nedbank Nedbank 2008 E9 a Senior debt securities and term loans 662 484 1,146 557 557 E9 b Mortgage backed securities 119 119 104 104 Subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings E9 c 1,034 1,010 2,044 779 855 1,634 Borrowed funds 1,696 1,613 3,309 1,336 959 2,295 Other issues treated as equity for accounting purposes F11 b US$750 million cumulative preference securities 458 458 500 million perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 338 338 350 million perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 350 350 Gross debt IFRS basis 2,842 2,482 Nominal value of gross debt 3,162 3,154 The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash flows based on contractual maturity dates for borrowed funds.
Maturity analysis is undiscounted and based on year end exchange rates.
m Group At Group At excluding 31 December excluding 31 December Nedbank Nedbank 2009 Nedbank Nedbank 2008 Less than 1 year 219 156 375 495 104 599 Greater than 1 year and less than 5 years 1,413 1,226 2,639 1,397 774 2,171 899 1,033 1,932 Greater than 5 years 238 666 904 Total 2,531 2,415 4,946 2,130 1,544 3,674 Old Mutual plc 283 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued a Senior debt securities and term loans m Group At Group At excluding 31 December excluding 31 December Nedbank Nedbank 2009 Nedbank Nedbank 2008 1 Floating rate notes 114 265 379 85 85 2 Fixed rate notes 548 219 767 152 152 3 Revolving credit facility 294 294 Term loan and other loans 26 26 Total senior debt securities and term loan 662 484 1,146 557 557 Senior debt securities and term loans comprise: 1 Floating rate notes 3 million note repayable in December 2010, with holders having the option to elect for early redemption every six months with coupon referenced against six month LIBOR less 0.50%.
US$50 million repayable September 2011 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.50%.
US$10 million repayable September 2009 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.35% repaid.
SEK100 million repayable March 2009 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.20% repaid.
22 million repayable January 2010 at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.35%.
SEK50 million repayable March 2010 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.38%.
R1,000 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2012 at 3 month JIBAR 1.5%.
R250 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2015 at JIBAR 2.20%.
R1,750 million unsecured senior debt repayable March 2013 inflation linked 3.9% real yield.
R98 million unsecured senior debt repayable March 2013 inflation linked 3.8% real yield.
R550 million repayable August 2010 at 3 month ZAR JIBAR-SAFEX 4.5%.
R100 million repayable February 2011 at 3 month ZAR JIBAR-SAFEX 4.5%.
2 Fixed rate notes 30 million Euro bond repayable July 2010, capital and interest swapped into fixed rate US dollars at 5.28%.
10 million Euro bond repayable December 2010, capital and interest swapped into floating rate US dollars at 3 month LIBOR 0.95%.
20 million Euro bond repayable August 2013, capital and interest swapped into floating rate US dollars at 3 month LIBOR 1.30%.
100 million Euro bond repayable December 2009 at 3.46% repaid.
R130 million unsecured senior debt repayable October 2024 at zero coupon.
R2,000 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2015 at 10.55%.
R400 million unsecured senior debt repayable September 2019 at 11.39%.
500 million Euro bond repayable October 2016 at 7.125%.
The total fair value of the swap derivatives associated with the Senior notes is 12 million 2008: 11 million.
These are recognised as assets and are included within note E6.
3 Revolving credit facilities and irrevocable letters of credit The Group has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007 syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility until September 2012.
At 31 December 2009 480 million 2008: 826 million of this facility was utilised, nil 2008: 294 million in the form of drawn debt and 480 million 2008: 532 million in the form of irrevocable letters of credit.
The Group has a SEK1,000 million revolving credit facility, which has a maturity date of 2 July 2010.
At 31 December 2009 this facility was undrawn.
b Mortgage backed securities Nedbank At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 R291 million notes class A1 repayable 18 November 2039 11.467% 25 22 R1.4 billion notes class A2A repayable 18 November 2039 11.817% 84 73 R98 million notes class B note repayable 18 November 2039 12.067% 6 5 R76 million notes class C note repayable 18 November 2039 13.317% 4 4 119 104 284 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued c Subordinated debt securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Nedbank 1 US$18 million repayable 31 August 2009 6 month LIBOR less 1.5% repaid 12 2 R1.5 billion repayable 24 April 2016 7.85% 126 108 3 R1.8 billion repayable 20 September 2018 9.84% 149 135 4 R515 million repayable on 4 December 2008 13.5% repaid 5 R500 million repayable on 30 December 2010 8.38% 41 36 6 R650 million repayable 8 February 2017 9.03% 55 49 7 R1.7 billion repayable 8 February 2019 8.9% 138 125 8 R2.0 billion repayable 6 July 2022 3 month JIBAR plus 0.47% 171 150 9 R500 million repayable 15 August 2012 3 month JIBAR plus 0.45% 42 37 10 R1.0 billion repayable 17 September 2015 10.54% 84 77 11 R500 million repayable 14 December 2017 3 month JIBAR plus 0.70% 42 37 12 R120 million repayable 14 December 2017 10.38% 10 9 13 R487 million repayable 20 November 2018 15.05% 41 40 14 108 R1,265 million repayable 20 November 2018 JIBAR plus 4.75% 94 15 R300 million repayable 4 December 2013 JIBAR 2.5% 13 11 16 US$100 million repayable 3 March 2022 3 month USD LIBOR 62 1,082 920 72 Less: banking subordinated debt securities held by other Group companies 65 Banking subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings 1,010 855 Group excluding Nedbank 17 R3.0 billion repayable 27 October 2020 8.9% 252 219 18 252 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 239 19 R250 million preference shares repayable 9 June 2011 21 18 20 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5% 509 303 1,034 779 Total subordinated liabilities 2,044 1,634 The subordinated notes rank behind the claims against the Group depositors and other unsecured, unsubordinated creditors.
None of the Groups subordinated notes are secured.
1 This instrument is matched either by advances to clients or covered against exchange rate fluctuations repaid.
2 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 24 April 2005 with a call date of 24 April 2011.
3 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 20 September 2006 at R1.5 billion with a call date of 20 September 2013.
On 18 May 2007 an additional R0.3 billion was issued.
4 Unsecured callable Bonds issued 10 June 2002.
5 Unsecured callable Bonds issued 30 March 2006.
6 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 with a call date of 8 February 2012.
7 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 at R1.0 billion.
On 19 March 2007 an additional R0.7 billion was issued.
8 Unsecured secondary capital callable note issued 6 July 2007 and has a call date of 6 July 2017.
9 This bond issued on 15 August 2007 is an unsecured secondary capital callable floating rate note with a call date 15 August 2012.
10 This bond issued on 17 September 2007 is an unsecured fixed rate note with a term of 13 years non-call 8 year.
11 This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 year floating rate note.
After its call date on 14 December 2012 its terms become JIBAR plus 1.70% until maturity.
12 This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 year fixed rate note.
After its call date its terms become floating 3 month JIBAR plus initial margin over mid swaps plus 1.0% until maturity.
13 This bond issued on 20 May 2008 is a perpetual non-call 10 year fixed rate note with a call date on 20 November 2018.
14 This bond issued on 20 May 2008 is a perpetual non-call 10 year floating rate note with a call date of 20 November 2018.
15 This bond issued on 4 December 2008 is a floating rate note with a call date of 4 December 2013.
16 Dated Tier 2 notes issued 3 March 2009 with call date 2 March 2017.
17 These bonds have a maturity date of 27 October 2020 and pay a coupon of 8.92% to 27 October 2015 and 3 month JIBAR plus 1.59% thereafter.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 27 October 2015 and at 3 monthly intervals thereafter.
18 These bonds, issued on 20 January 2006, have a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pay a coupon of 5.0% to 21 January 2011 and 6 month LIBOR plus 1.13% thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into floating rate of 6 month STIBOR plus 0.50%.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
19 These preference shares are redeemable on 9 June 2011 and pay a variable cumulative coupon of 61.0% of the Prime Rate as quoted by Nedbank Limited.
The Group has the option to redeem the shares at par at any time before the final redemption date but after giving an agreed period of notice.
20 This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5% to 17 January 2012 and 6 month EURIBOR plus 0.96% thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into Sterling and US dollars with coupons of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.34% and 6 month US LIBOR plus 0.31% respectively.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
Old Mutual plc 285 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued E10: Amounts owed to bank depositors At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 9,006 Current accounts 7,916 Savings deposits 1,283 1,043 Other deposits and loan accounts Call and term deposits 14,972 14,035 Fixed deposits 2,345 1,894 Cash management deposits 2,772 2,635 Other 3,800 2,746 Negotiable certificates of deposit 8,704 6,369 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,253 1,533 44,135 38,171 A contractual maturity analysis of the amounts owed to bank depositors is shown in the following table: m More than 3 months Between Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than Year ended 31 December 2009 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 9,006 8,879 107 20 9,006 Savings deposits 1,283 1,283 1,283 Other deposits and loan accounts 23,889 20,099 3,422 1,298 261 25,080 Negotiable certificates of deposit 8,704 2,421 6,233 613 3 9,270 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,253 1,253 1,253 Amounts owed to bank depositors 44,135 33,935 9,762 1,931 264 45,892 m More than 3 months Between Carrying Less than less than 1 and 5 More than Year ended 31 December 2008 amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 7,916 7,756 35 7,791 Savings deposits 1,043 1,043 1,043 Other deposits and loan accounts 21,310 17,452 3,105 1,104 83 21,744 Negotiable certificates of deposit 6,369 2,287 4,392 373 7,052 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,533 1,533 1,533 Amounts owed to bank depositors 38,171 30,071 7,532 1,477 83 39,163 E11: Capital management unaudited Overview The Group actively manages its capital with a focus on capital efficiency and effective risk management.
The capital objectives are to maintain the Groups ability to continue as a going concern while enabling the ability to identify capital strains and ensuring that the return to shareholders is maximised through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The Group ensures that it can meet is expected capital and financing needs at all times having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and strategic initiatives.
It is critical that the Groups capital management policies are aligned with the Groups overall strategy, business plans and risk appetite.
The Groups Capital Management Committee GCMC reviews the capital structure regularly.
As part of the review the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Based on the recommendations of the committee, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues, share buybacks as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.
Measures that inform the GCMCs views on the appropriate level of capital for the Group includes shareholder performance objectives, regulatory capital requirements, internal economic capital measures, rating agency expectations and general views on maintaining financial flexibility.
286 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The Groups overall capital risk appetite is managed with reference to the requirements of the relevant stakeholders and seeks to maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength to support stakeholder requirements, optimise its overall debt to equity structure to enhance returns to shareholders, subject to the requirements set by the Groups capital risk appetite and retain financial flexibility by maintaining liquidity, including unutilised committed credit lines.
The primary sources of capital used by the Group are equity shareholders funds, preference shares, subordinated debt and borrowings.
Alternative resources are utilised where appropriate.
Targets are established in relation to regulatory solvency, ratings, liquidity and dividend capacity and are a key tool in managing capital in accordance with our risk appetite and the requirements of our various stakeholders.
The individual companies in the Group are subject to regulatory capital requirements at an individual level.
In addition the Group as a whole is subject to the solvency requirements of the Financial Groups Directive FGD as implemented by the FSA.
The Group utilises both this measure and economic capital measures to manage its capital position.
Under FGD a continuous company solvency test is applied.
Under this test the surplus capital held in each of the regulated entities is aggregated with the free assets of the non-regulated entities.
Group borrowings are deducted from this total other than subordinated debt issues which qualify as capital.
No credit is given to the benefit of diversification.
The test is passed where the aggregate number is positive.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of the Groups operations there is an added complexity to the application of the FSA capital requirements.
In particular certain regional capital requirements need to be recalculated under the FSA rules as if the companies were directly subject to the FSA capital regime.
The Group met its FGD requirements at 31 December 2009 and throughout the year.
As at the date of issue of these financial statements the unaudited pro-forma surplus was estimated to be 1.5 billion.
The FGD position will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2010.
Capital position statements a Life assurance operations Each of the Groups life assurance businesses is capitalised at a sufficiently strong level for their individual circumstances.
The regulatory capital position of the Groups life assurance operations, based on latest estimates that are not audited, is summarised as follows: unaudited m At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 South United South United Africa States Europe Africa States Europe Equity shareholders funds 4,447 1,064 5,132 3,455 339 3,745 Adjustments to a regulatory basis: Inadmissible assets 19 215 1,106 15 276 1,066 Other adjustments 487 449 2,684 257 232 1,412 3,941 400 1,342 Total available capital resources 3,183 295 1,267 Total capital requirements local regulatory basis 977 303 242 851 279 237 Overall excess of capital resources over requirements 2,964 97 1,100 2,332 16 1,030 unaudited m Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 South United South United Africa States Europe Africa States Europe Capital position at beginning of the year 3,183 295 1,267 3,397 467 1,145 Earnings after tax 718 184 376 233 751 366 Change in admissible assets and other adjustments and 182 318 229 276 239 327 other movements in reserves New capital capital redemptions 650 Dividends 281 55 209 55 Foreign exchange movements 503 29 17 48 168 138 Capital position at end of the year 3,941 400 1,342 3,183 295 1,267 Old Mutual plc 287 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued South Africa The amounts disclosed above represent the capital position of OMLAC SA and the life business in Namibia.
The calculations are determined in accordance with the requirements of the South African Financial Services Board, using estimates of the regulatory adjustments, as the relevant regulatory returns have yet to be completed or audited.
At 31 December 2009, OMLAC SA s excess assets was 4.1 times 2008: 3.8 times the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for estimates of statutory limitations on the value of certain assets.
OMLAC SA s shareholders funds include its investments in Nedbank 2,634 million 2008: 1,690 million and M&F 448 million 2008: 219 million.
In addition, 690 million 2008: 904 million is invested in the Groups loan notes and 561 million 2008: 335 million is held in inter-company loans.
All inter-company loans are immediately repayable and subject to commercial terms and conditions, with the exception that interest may be waived in certain circumstances.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirement and foreign exchange controls, as determined by the South African Reserve Bank.
The statutory solvency requirement for Namibia is N$4 million 0.3 million 2008: N$4 million 0.3 million.
This has been determined in accordance with local statutory rules.
United States In the case of the United States, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of the Old Mutual US Life Holdings Inc. group of companies, including Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company, Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company of New York and Old Mutual Reassurance Ireland Limited, and Old Mutual Bermuda Limited.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of the local regulatory requirements for the United States included at the relevant percentage used for FGD, which in 2009 has been strengthened to 200% of Risked Based Capital and Ireland and on the basis of FSA rules for Bermuda.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the entities and the requirement to maintain the minimum statutory capital requirements.
Europe In the case of Skandia, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Continental Europe.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirements and obtaining any necessary regulatory permissions as required by local regulators in the territories in question.
b Banking operations The regulatory capital position of the Groups banking operations, based on latest estimates that are not audited, is summarised as follows: unaudited m At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 Africa Europe Africa Europe Equity shareholder funds 1,720 224 1,434 218 Eligible subordinated debt 598 104 482 105 2 Inadmissible assets 3 Other adjustments 38 1 18 1 Total capital resources 2,280 325 1,898 321 Total capital requirement 1,659 197 1,528 166 Excess of capital resources over capital requirement 621 128 370 155 288 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued unaudited m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Africa Europe Africa Europe Capital position at beginning of the year 1,898 321 1,883 324 Earnings after tax and other increases in reserves 181 71 243 119 Change in admissible assets, other adjustments and other movements in reserves 28 56 49 13 New capital Net redemption issue of subordinated debt 50 60 Dividends paid 108 9 104 149 Foreign exchange movements 287 2 15 40 Capital position at end of the year 2,280 325 1,898 321 The above amounts represent the capital positions of Nedbank Limited including the London branch, Imperial Bank Limited and Skandiabanken AB.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question, and reflect the Groups percentage ownership.
E12: Liquidity Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Individual businesses separately maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs, within the overall liquidity framework established by Old Mutual plc.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements, and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups available credit facilities.
Given the nature of the Groups investments and securities, generally speaking, liquid resources are readily available, as the Group holds large portfolios of highly marketable securities, for example equities, listed bonds, actively traded pooled investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Whilst most of the Groups policyholder and banking liabilities are generally repayable on demand, the Groups expectation is that policyholders and banking depositors will only require funds on an ongoing basis.
Cash resources and other liquid assets are maintained in the event of a run on the bank.
Information on the nature of the investments and securities held is given in section E4.
The Parent Companys existing revolving credit facility of 1.25 billion does not mature until September 2012.
Details, together with information on the Groups borrowed funds, are given in section E9.
The key information reviewed by the Groups executive directors and executive committee, together with the Groups capital management committee, is a detailed management report on the holding companys current and planned capital and liquidity position together with summary information on the current and planned liquidity positions of the Groups operating segments.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on new information received, and as part of the Groups annual business planning cycle.
The holding companys liquidity and capital position and forecast is presented to the Old Mutual plc board of directors on a regular basis.
Group operating segments are required, both in terms of their local requirements and in accordance with direction from the holding company, to establish their own processes for managing their liquidity and capital needs and these are subject to review by their local oversight functions, with representation from the Group.
Further information on liquidity and holding company cash flow is contained in other sections of this annual report, for example the business review and Group Finance Directors statement.
The Group does not have material liquidity exposure to special purpose entities or investment funds.
The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities are set out in the appropriate notes to the financial statements.
Old Mutual plc 289 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued F: Other statement of financial position notes F1: Goodwill and other intangible assets m Present value of acquired in-force Software Other intangible Goodwill business development costs assets Total At 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Cost Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses at beginning of the year 3,316 2,762 3,129 2,736 548 423 916 804 7,909 6,725 12 51 63 Acquisitions through business combinations 40 40 Additions 20 82 2 22 82 Foreign exchange and other movements 71 496 100 393 52 12 35 114 154 1,015 Disposals or retirements 16 22 3 3 2 41 5 Transfer from to Non-current assets held-for-sale 18 34 52 Balance at end of the year 3,241 3,316 3,029 3,129 649 548 880 916 7,799 7,909 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 235 133 1,179 728 361 261 252 144 2,027 1,266 Amortisation charge for the year 244 286 56 43 82 75 382 404 Impairment losses 266 74 25 1 266 100 Foreign exchange and other movements 12 19 43 165 32 17 11 32 10 233 Disposals or retirements 1 22 1 2 25 1 Transfer from to Non-current assets held-for-sale 9 16 25 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses at end of the year 512 235 1,380 1,179 427 361 321 252 2,640 2,027 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 3,081 2,629 1,950 2,008 187 162 664 660 5,882 5,459 Balance at end of the year 2,729 3,081 1,649 1,950 222 187 559 664 5,159 5,882 Of the present value of acquired in-force business at the year end of 1,649 million 2008: 1,950 million, 1,561 million 2008: 1,832 million relates to the Skandia business acquired during 2006 which is due to be amortised over a further 11 to 16 years.
Of the other intangible assets 365 million 2008: 439 million relates to distribution channels and 108 million 2008: 117 million brands associated with the Skandia business.
The remaining periods over which these are being amortised are 6 years and 11 years respectively.
The acquisitions through business combinations comprises 5 million 2008: 3 million in respect of various acquisitions by the Groups US Asset Management business, nil 2008: 21 million relating to the purchase of additional interests in Nedbank and 7 million 2008: 16 million relating to various other small acquisitions.
Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units CGUs The carrying amount of goodwill accords with the operating segmentation shown in note B, and primarily relates to the Long Term Savings CGUs of Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management, together with Nedbank and US Asset Management.
An analysis of goodwill by CGU is set out below.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 219 Nordic 222 Retail Europe 204 420 Wealth Management 656 741 Nedbank 393 308 US Asset Management 1,142 1,271 Other 115 119 Goodwill, net of impairment losses 2,729 3,081 290 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Reorganisation of the former ELAM operating segment and recognition of impairment charges As a result of the reorganisation of the Groups operating segments during the current financial year the goodwill previously allocated to the former ELAM operating segment 574 million as at 31 December 2008 was reassigned to the Retail Europe 420 million, Emerging Markets 56 million and Wealth Management 98 million operating segments.
The reallocation of goodwill was based on relative values at the point of reallocation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Following a re-evaluation of the prospects for the former ELAM operating segment as part of the reorganisation, goodwill impairment tests were carried out based on a comparison of the re-allocated carrying amounts and their corresponding value-in-use calculations at the point of reallocation.
As a result, impairment charges were recognised in the income statement of 187 million in the Retail Europe CGU and 79 million in Wealth Management CGU, largely as a result of a reassessment of the anticipated growth rates assumed in the value-in-use calculations determined during the reorganisation.
The discount rate applied in the corresponding value-in-use calculations was 15.7%.
Annual impairment testing of goodwill In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is tested annually for impairment for each CGU, by comparing the carrying amount of each CGU to its recoverable amount, being the higher of that CGUs value-in-use or net selling price.
An impairment charge is recognised when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
In all cases in 2009, each CGUs recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value-in-use.
Nordic, Retail Europe, Wealth Management These CGUs generate revenues through their life assurance and asset management businesses.
Nordic also has a banking business as an additional principal source of revenue.
The value-in-use calculations for the life assurance operations are determined using the reported embedded value methodology plus a discounted cash flow calculation for the value of new business.
The value of new business represents the present value of future profits from expected new business.
Embedded value represents the shareholders interest in the life assurance business and is calculated in accordance with Market Consistent Embedded Value principles.
The methodology and significant assumptions underlying the determination of embedded value is disclosed in the supplementary information shown on pages 344 to 355.
The differences between the key assumptions applied in the current year and in the prior year are disclosed on pages 360 to 373.
The cash flows attributable to the value of new business are determined with reference to latest approved three-year business plans.
Projections beyond the plan period are extrapolated using an inflation based growth assumption.
The value-in-use calculations for the asset management and banking operations are similarly determined based on discounted cash flow models derived from the latest approved three-year business plans.
Projections beyond the plan period are extrapolated using inflation based growth rates.
For Nordic, the banking and asset management cash flows are extrapolated for one year beyond the business plan period, whereas for Retail Europe and Wealth Management an additional two years are projected.
The cash flows are discounted at a market participant cost of capital, which is derived from the 10-year government bond gilt rates relevant to the geographic region in question, adjusted to reflect the particular risks and uncertainties that would cause variations in the timing, amount or liquidity of the cash flows derived from the assets.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for the Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management CGUs are as follows: The growth rate The rate used is an inflation based growth assumption, which varies by CGU and is based on external market factors particular to that CGU.
Nordic applied the Riksbanken inflation target of 2% to all principal business lines.
Retail Europe, which incorporates a number of European countries, applied a weighted average calculation to determine the growth rate of 3.1% applied to its life assurance business and of 2.3% for its asset management business.
Wealth Management applied 1.9% to both its life assurance business and asset management business.
The discount rate The applied rate used the relevant 10-year government bond rate as a starting point, which was adjusted for an equity market risk premium and other relevant risk adjustments, which were determined using market valuation models and other observable references.
For the life assurance businesses, rates applied were 12.4% for Nordic, 15.7% for Retail Europe and between 14.1% and 15.7% for Wealth Management.
A rate of 11.4% has been applied to the Nordic banking and asset management businesses.
A rate of 11.2% was used for Wealth Managements asset management business and a rate between 10.4% and 11.2% was applied in Retail Europes asset management businesses.
The directors are satisfied that any reasonable change in the assumptions would not cause the recoverable amounts of the Nordic and Wealth Management CGUs to fall below their carrying amounts.
Having made the impairment in Retail Europe the directors are satisfied that any reasonable change in assumptions would not result in further impairment.
Nedbank The impairment test in respect of the Nedbank CGU has been performed by comparing the CGUs carrying amount to its value-in-use.
Value-in-use has been determined using a discounted cash flow methodology.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation are the discount rate and growth rate, which are based on market factors relevant to that CGU.
The discount rate applied is approximately 12.9% Old Mutual plc 291 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 2008: 11%.
A 5% growth rate was applied to extrapolate cash flows for an additional two years beyond the three-year business plan period.
A terminal value, using the same growth rate, is added for the value of cash flows beyond five years.
There was no impairment charge recognised for the Nedbank CGU in the current financial year 2008: nil.
The directors are satisfied that a reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill to fall below the carrying amount.
US Asset Management The impairment test in respect of the US Asset Management CGU has been performed by comparing the CGUs carrying amount to its value-in-use.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for the US Asset Management CGU are as follows: An assumed growth rate of 6% 2008: 7% was applied to the extrapolation of cash flows beyond the three-year business plan period.
Extrapolation was performed for two years beyond the business plan period.
The risk-adjusted discount rate applied was 13.3% 2008: 17%.
No impairment charge has been recognised for the US Asset Management CGU.
The directors believe that a reasonable adverse change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for example, reducing the growth rate to 5% or increasing the risk adjusted discount rate by 1.5% for that CGU would be absorbed before the recoverable amounts fall below the carrying amounts.
The value-in-use exceeds the carrying amount by 290 million.
Segmental analysis of goodwill and intangibles The following table shows a segmental analysis of the carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets, together with amortisation and impairment charges, by operating segment: Goodwill and other intangible assets by segment m Goodwill and intangible Impairment At 31 December 2009 assets Amortisation loss Long term savings 3,400 337 266 Emerging Markets 106 3 Nordic 1,035 133 Retail Europe 563 54 187 1,602 127 79 Wealth Management US Life 94 20 Nedbank 543 37 US Asset Management 1,171 2 Other 45 6 Total 5,159 382 266 m Goodwill and intangible Impairment At 31 December 2008 assets Amortisation loss Long term savings 4,105 374 100 Emerging Markets 111 3 8 Nordic 1,183 130 12 Retail Europe 865 62 Wealth Management 1,814 137 18 US Life 132 42 62 Nedbank 425 27 US Asset Management 1,305 2 Other 47 1 Total 5,882 404 100 Goodwill and intangible assets discussed in the table above is net of amortisation and impairment losses.
292 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued In 2008 62 million of impairment losses were recognised in respect of the US Life CGU, representing the full carrying amount of goodwill allocated to that CGU, and 8 million in respect of the Emerging Markets CGU.
A further 12 million was recognised in the Nordic CGU as a result of an adjustment for deferred tax assets previously unrecognised.
An impairment charge of 18 million was recognised in Wealth Management reflecting a write down in software development costs in relation to a platform that was not being used.
F2: Property, plant and equipment m Land Buildings Plant and equipment Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Gross carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 76 73 405 360 660 547 1,141 980 Additions 56 16 82 83 138 99 Additions from business combinations 1 2 3 Decrease Increase arising from revaluation 8 2 5 20 13 22 Disposals 1 21 76 36 98 36 Foreign exchange and other movements 19 122 1 53 32 194 31 Transfer from to non-current asset held-for-sale 1 10 34 45 Balance at end of the year 86 76 558 405 721 660 1,365 1,141 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 13 10 446 362 459 372 Depreciation charge for the year 12 8 74 66 86 74 Disposals 8 61 28 69 28 Foreign exchange and other movements 20 6 41 24 61 18 Transfer from to non-current asset held-for-sale 1 22 23 Balance at end of the year 37 13 500 446 537 459 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 76 73 392 350 214 185 682 608 Balance at end of the year 86 76 521 392 221 214 828 682 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment leased to third parties under operating leases, included in the above is 82 million 2008: 33 million and comprises land of 12 million 2008: 5 million and buildings of 70 million 2008: 28 million.
There are no restrictions on property, plant and equipment title as a result of security pledges.
The revaluation of land and buildings relates to Emerging Markets and to Nedbank.
In 2009 Emerging Markets suffered revaluation losses of 10 million on land and 8 million on buildings 2008: revaluation gains of 1 million and 15 million respectively, while Nedbank made revaluation gains of 2 million on land and 3 million on buildings 2008: gains of 1 million and 5 million respectively.
For Emerging Markets, land and buildings are valued as at 31 December each year by internal professional valuers and external valuations are obtained once every three years.
External professional valuers are used for Nedbank.
For both businesses the valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows and vacant land and property are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
The carrying value that would have been recognised had the land and buildings been carried under the cost model would be 64 million 2008: 19 million and 99 million 2008: 91 million respectively for Emerging Markets and 21 million 2008: 12 million and 97 million 2008: 92 million for Nedbank respectively.
Old Mutual plc 293 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Capital expenditure and depreciation by segment m Long term US Asset Year ended 31 December 2009 savings Nedbank M&F Management Other Total 367 417 23 19 2 828 Capital expenditure, net of depreciation Depreciation 25 48 5 8 86 m Long term US Asset Year ended 31 December 2008 savings Nedbank M&F Management Other Total Capital expenditure, net of depreciation 313 316 24 26 3 682 Depreciation 25 40 2 7 74 F3: Investment property Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of the year 1,478 1,479 Additions 82 145 Additions from business combinations 155 Disposals 57 13 Net loss from fair value adjustments 54 143 Foreign exchange and other movements 155 10 Balance at end of the year 1,759 1,478 In 2009 additions of 237 million 2008: 144 million related to OMSA and nil 2008: 1 million related to Nedbank.
Of the net loss gain arising from fair value adjustments on investment properties, a 105 million loss 2008: 31 million gain related to OMSA, nil gain 2008: 1 million gain related to Nedbank, 6 million gain 2008: 5 million gain related to other African businesses and 45 million gain 2008: 180 million gain related to UK.
The fair value of investment property freehold leased to third parties under operating leases is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Freehold 1,759 1,478 Rental income from investment property 106 84 Direct operating expense arising from investment property that generated rental income 19 16 87 68 The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent valuer at least every three years, and annually by locally qualified staff, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values are determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
The Groups current lease arrangements, which are entered into on an arms length basis and which are comparable to those for similar properties in the same location, are taken into account.
Of the total investment property of 1,759 million 2008: 1,478 million, 1,535 million 2008: 1,296 million is attributable to South Africa, 223 million 2008: 182 million to Europe and 1 million 2008: nil to other.
294 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued F4: Deferred acquisition costs m Insurance Investment Asset Year ended 31 December 2009 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 2,107 961 131 3,199 New business 89 251 56 396 102 130 46 278 Amortisation Impairment losses charged for the year 5 5 Foreign exchange and other movements 160 3 11 174 Transfer from assets held-for-sale Balance at end of the year 1,934 1,079 125 3,138 m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2008 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 1,422 717 114 2,253 New business 234 286 47 567 Amortisation 239 97 40 376 Foreign exchange and other movements 677 55 10 742 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 13 13 Balance at end of the year 2,107 961 131 3,199 F5: Trade, other receivables and other assets Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations Amounts owed by policyholders 89 63 Amounts owed by intermediaries 86 93 Other 23 49 198 205 Debtors arising from reinsurance operations 94 90 Outstanding settlements 252 459 Other receivables 1,598 1,531 Accrued interest and rent 433 508 Trading securities and spot positions 63 62 Prepayments and accrued income 134 151 Other assets 279 131 Total trade, other receivables and other assets 3,051 3,137 Based on the maturity profile of the above assets, 2,849 million 2008: 2,693 million is regarded as current and 202 million 2008: 444 million as non-current.
Of the above assets, 3,003 million 2008: 2,681 million was exposed to credit risk Standard & Poors or equivalent, with 1,195 million 2008: 1,218 million rated investment grade, 93 million 2008: 46 million rated sub-investment grade and 1,716 million 2008: 1,417 million not rated.
All amounts outstanding are short-term in nature.
No significant balances are past due or impaired.
Old Mutual plc 295 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued F6: Provisions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Surplus property 20 23 Client compensation 30 27 Warranties on sale of business 17 111 Liability for long service leave 49 38 Provision for donations 84 80 Litigation claims 36 Other provisions 95 165 295 480 Post employment benefits 32 3 Total 263 477 m Liability Client Warranties for long Provision Surplus compenon sale of service for Litigation Year ended 31 December 2009 property sation business leave donations claims Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 23 27 111 38 80 36 165 480 Unused amounts reversed 2 54 11 41 108 1 - 1 Unwind of discount Charge to income statement 3 3 24 - 13 37 Utilised during the year 7 2 26 20 6 59 120 Foreign exchange and other movements 10 14 7 4 19 17 5 Balance at end of the year 20 30 17 49 84 95 295 m Liability Client Warranties for long Provision Surplus compenon sale of service for Litigation Year ended 31 December 2008 property sation business leave donations claims Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 29 19 87 34 82 64 183 498 Unused amounts reversed 1 5 5 40 51 Unwind of discount 1 1 Charge to income statement 8 22 4 37 20 91 Utilised during the year 7 14 3 1 2 74 24 123 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 19 10 1 9 26 64 Balance at end of the year 23 27 111 38 80 36 165 480 2009 provisions in relation to surplus property amounted to 20 million 2008: 23 million.
These relate to the onerous costs of vacant properties leased by the Group of which 13 million 2008: 23 million is estimated to be payable after more than 1 year.
Provisions in relation to client compensation were 30 million 2008: 27 million, primarily relating to possible mis-selling of guarantee contracts in Wealth Management.
5 million 2008: 6 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Provisions in relation to warranties on the sale of businesses amounted to 17 million 2008: 111 million.
9 million 2008: 9 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
During the year, settlement was reached in relation to certain outstanding litigations in connection with the acquisition of Skandia.
Corresponding provisions have been accordingly utilised or released.
The liability for long service leave of 49 million 2008: 38 million relates to provision for staff payments for long serving employees, all of which are estimated to be payable in less than one year.
296 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The provision for donations is held by Emerging Markets.
It relates to the payment of charitable donations in future periods to which the Group is committed, out of the funds made available on the closure of the Groups unclaimed shares trusts, which were set up as part of the demutualisation in 1999 and closed in 2006 of which 84 million 2008: 80 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Other provisions includes provisions for tax on long term staff benefits, restructuring and legal fees.
At 31 December 2009 provisions in relation to litigation claims amounted to nil 2008: 36 million.
During the year 36 million of the provision was utilised, principally in respect of payments made in connection with the outcome of the Skandia Liv arbitration note G3.
Where material, provisions are discounted at discount rates specific to the risks inherent in the liability.
The timing and final amounts of payments in respect of some of the provisions, particularly those in respect of litigation claims and similar actions against the Group, are uncertain and could result in adjustments to the amounts recorded.
Of the total provisions recorded above, 188 million 2008: 271 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Old Mutual plc 297 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued F7: Deferred revenue m Life Asset General Year ended 31 December 2009 assurance management insurance Total Balance at beginning of the year 489 101 8 598 Fees and commission income deferred 91 34 125 Amortisation 15 37 52 Foreign exchange and other movements 11 7 1 17 Transfer from assets held-for-sale 2 2 Balance at end of the year 556 89 9 654 m Life Asset General Year ended 31 December 2008 assurance management insurance Total Balance at beginning of the year 350 112 462 Fees and commission income deferred 120 32 152 Amortisation 11 37 48 Foreign exchange and other movements 30 6 2 26 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 6 6 Balance at end of the year 489 101 8 598 F8: Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differences arise.
a Deferred tax assets The movement on the deferred tax assets account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange At beginning charge credited to disposals of and other At end of the Year ended 31 December 2009 of the year credit equity subsidiaries movements year Insurance funds 298 17 29 286 Tax losses carried forward 346 53 4 20 269 Accelerated capital allowances 17 10 1 6 584 56 404 51 185 Available-for-sale securities Other temporary differences 284 53 24 1 59 265 Netted against liabilities 63 10 551 624 Deferred fee income 124 8 51 183 1,590 45 428 5 542 570 m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange At beginning charge credited to disposals of and other At end of the Year ended 31 December 2008 of the year credit equity subsidiaries movements year Insurance funds 71 158 2 67 298 Tax losses carried forward 139 140 2 69 346 Accelerated capital allowances 40 29 6 17 Available-for-sale securities 47 34 391 112 584 Other temporary differences 356 165 5 98 284 Netted against liabilities 123 78 18 63 Deferred fee income 153 21 50 124 683 237 391 5 284 1,590 298 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable, being where on the basis of all available evidence it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the reversal of the deferred tax asset can be deducted.
The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: m 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Gross Gross amount Tax amount Tax Unrelieved tax losses Expiring within one year 54 2 Expiring in the second to fifth years inclusive 1,555 154 1,222 109 Expiring after five years 1,185 340 1,826 541 Accelerated capital allowances 84 24 19 5 Other timing differences 20 6 28 8 2,844 524 3,149 665 b Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange At beginning charge credited to disposals of and other At end of the Year ended 31 December 2009 of the year credit equity subsidiaries movements year Accelerated tax depreciation 24 24 Deferred acquisition costs 715 24 18 59 662 Leasing 54 18 8 44 PVIF 258 26 8 224 Other acquired intangibles 107 16 5 86 Available-for-sale securities 2 2 256 20 130 366 Other temporary differences Policyholder tax 99 7 15 121 Netted against assets 63 10 551 624 1,452 59 18 470 905 m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange At beginning charge credited to disposals of and other At end of the Year ended 31 December 2008 of the year credit equity subsidiaries movements year Accelerated tax depreciation 25 1 24 Deferred acquisition costs 534 47 16 118 715 Leasing 80 9 17 54 PVIF 256 32 34 258 Other acquired intangibles 103 12 16 107 Available-for-sale securities 2 2 Other temporary differences 429 169 9 13 256 Policyholder tax 109 60 50 99 Netted against assets 123 78 18 63 1,413 158 25 172 1,452 As the Group is able to control the reversal of temporary differences in respect of investments in subsidiaries and branches and it is probable that these temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future, there is no need to provide for the associated deferred tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences on which further tax might be due if these temporary differences reversed would be estimated at 3.4 billion 2008: 3.2 billion.
Old Mutual plc 299 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued F9: Trade, other payables and other liabilities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Amounts payable on direct insurance business Funds held under reinsurance business ceded 118 15 Amounts owed to policyholders 528 535 Amounts owed to intermediaries 80 66 Other direct insurance operation creditors 67 46 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 62 64 Accruals and deferred income 576 749 Share-based payments cash-settled scheme liabilities 19 15 Short trading securities, spot positions and other 778 494 Trade creditors 297 312 Outstanding settlements 412 592 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 157 299 Obligations in relation to collateral holdings 295 341 Other liabilities 916 546 4,305 4,074 Included in the amounts shown above are 2,960 million 2008: 3,094 million that are regarded as current, the remainder as non-current.
F10: Equity a Share capital At At 31 December 31 December m m Authorised and issued share capital 2009 2008 Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 750 750 Issued ordinary shares of 10p each 552 552 b Perpetual preferred callable securities In addition to the Groups senior and subordinated debt, the Group has issued two separate tranches of perpetual preferred callable securities with a total carrying value of 688 million 2008: 688 million as at 31 December 2009.
In accordance with IFRS accounting standards these instruments are classified as equity and disclosed within equity shareholders funds as shown on page 187.
350 million perpetual preferred callable securities these are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 24 March 2020 interest is payable at a fixed rate of 6.4% per annum annually in arrears.
From 24 March 2020 interest is reset semi-annually at 2.2% per annum above the Sterling inter-bank offer rate for six month Sterling deposits, and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
Coupon payments may be deferred at the Groups discretion.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 24 March 2020.
500 million perpetual preferred callable securities Step-up Option B Undated Subordinated Notes issued under a Global Note Programme.
These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 4 November 2015 the notes pay interest at a fixed rate of 5.0% per annum annually in arrears.
After this date the interest is reset semi-annually at 2.63% per annum above six month EURIBOR and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 4 November 2015. c Share buy back programme In 2008, there were 161,559,272 shares repurchased on the LSE at an average price paid of 149.3p and 77,875,616 shares repurchased on the JSE at an average price paid of R20.23 in accordance with the share buy back programme announced on 3 October 2007.
The shares repurchased have not been cancelled and are held by the Company as treasury shares.
The share buy back programme was completed in 2008.
300 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued F11: Non-controlling interests a Income statement i Ordinary shares The non-controlling interests charge to profit for the financial year has been calculated on the basis of the Groups effective ownership of the subsidiaries in which it does not own 100% of the ordinary equity.
The principal subsidiaries where a non-controlling interest exists are the Groups banking and general insurance businesses in South Africa.
For the year ended 31 December 2009 the non-controlling interests attributable to ordinary shares was 158 million 2008: 188 million.
ii Preferred securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 16 14 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 6 5 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 2 1 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 38 32 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 2 2 Non-controlling interests preferred securities 64 54 iii Adjusted operating profit The following table reconciles non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year to non-controlling interests share of adjusted operating profit: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Reconciliation of non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year 2009 2008 The non-controlling interests charge is analysed as follows: Non-controlling interests ordinary shares 158 188 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 1 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 2 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 2 11 Income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries 23 30 Fair value gains on group debt instruments 6 Income attributable to US Asset Management non-controlling interests 3 7 Non-controlling interests share of adjusted operating profit 181 218 The Group uses revised weighted average effective ownership interests when calculating the non-controllable interest applicable to the adjusted operating profit of its South Africa banking and general insurance businesses.
This reflects the legal ownership of these businesses following the implementation for Black Economic Empowerment BEE schemes in 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting rules the shares issued for BEE purposes are deemed to be, in substance, options.
Therefore the effective ownership interest of the minorities reflected in arriving at profit after tax in the consolidated income statement is lower than that applied in arriving at adjusted operating profit after tax.
In 2009 the increase in adjusted operating profit attributable to non-controlling interests as a result of this was 23 million 2008: 30 million.
b Statement of financial position i Ordinary shares Year to Year to 31 December 31 December m m Reconciliation of movements in non-controlling interests 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of the year 1,147 933 Non-controlling interests share of profit 158 188 Non-controlling interests share of dividends paid 80 111 Net acquisition of interests 63 25 Foreign exchange and other movements 249 112 Balance at end of the year 1,537 1,147 Old Mutual plc 301 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued ii Preferred securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 1 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 140 140 2 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 71 71 3 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 12 12 4 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 458 458 5 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 25 25 6 R363 million non-cumulative preference shares 17 723 706 Unamortised issue costs 13 13 Total in issue at 31 December 710 693 Preferred securities are held at historic value of consideration received less unamortised issue costs.
1 200 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank Limited Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary.
These shares are non-redeemable and non-cumulative and pay a cash dividend equivalent to 75% of the prime overdraft interest rate of Nedbank.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to vote during periods when a dividend or any part of it remains unpaid after the due date for payment or when resolutions are proposed that directly affect any rights attaching to the shares or the rights of the holders.
Preference shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividends in priority to any payment of dividends made in respect of any other class of Nedbanks shares.
2 77.3 million R10 preference shares issued at R10.68 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
3 30 million R10 preference shares issued on 22 June 2006 by Imperial Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Nedbank Limited, on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
4 US$750 million Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preference Securities issued on 19 May 2003 by Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. a subsidiary of the Group.
Subject to certain limitations, holders of these securities are entitled to receive preferential cash distributions at a fixed rate of 8.0% per annum payable in arrears on a quarterly basis.
The Group may defer payment of distributions at its sole discretion, but such an act may restrict Old Mutual plc from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for a period of 12 months.
Arrears of distributions are payable quarterly cumulatively only on redemption of the securities or at the Groups option.
The securities are perpetual, but may be redeemed at the discretion of the Group from 22 December 2008.
The costs of issue have been amortised over the period to 22 December 2008.
5 35 million R10 preference shares issued on 16 April 2007 at R10.27 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
6 36.3 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank in seven instalments between September 2009 and December 2009 on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
302 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued G: Other notes G1: Post employment benefits The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benefits over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit obligations of the Groups pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they operate.
a Liability for defined benefit obligations m Pension Other post-retirement plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Changes in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 778 675 158 128 Benefits earned during the year 8 6 5 4 Interest cost on benefit obligation 41 41 12 10 Actuarial gain loss 25 3 15 Benefits paid 43 36 5 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 6 89 26 18 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 815 778 211 158 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 828 855 160 134 99 9 Actual return on plan assets 18 8 Company contributions 14 13 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid 41 34 4 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 52 11 10 20 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 953 828 175 160 Net asset liability recognised in statement of financial position Funded status of plan 138 50 36 2 Unrecognised assets 8 18 4 2 Other amounts recognised in statement of financial position 1 2 Unrecognised actuarial gains 61 10 4 16 Net amount recognised in statement of financial position 68 22 36 18 b Expense Credit recognised in the income statement m Pension Other post-retirement plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Current service costs 8 9 3 3 Interest cost 31 31 12 10 Expected return on plan assets 42 51 11 10 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 5 15 Losses gains on curtailment 2 Total included in staff costs 2 24 4 3 Old Mutual plc 303 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued c Principal actuarial assumptions % Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 UK pension schemes 5.7-5.8 Discount rate 5.5-5.8 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 7.5-8.4 6.7-8.8 Debt 4.5-5.8 3.7-5.8 Cash 0.5-5.7 3.8-5.5 Annuities and other 5.7-6.5 5.5-8.8 Future salary increases 4.8 4.1-4.9 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 3.8-4.3 2.8-3.1 Price inflation 3.8 2.8-3.1 Europe pension schemes Discount rate 4.0 3.5 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 5.8 5.1 2.8 Debt 2.1 Property 5.8 5.1 Annuities and other 5.8 5.1 Future salary increases 3.3 3.3 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 2.0 2.0 Price inflation 2.0 2.0 African pension schemes Discount rate 7.5-9.0 5.8-9.0 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 9.0-12.5 8.8-11.5 Debt 9.0-9.5 5.8-9.0 Cash 7.5-9.0 3.8-6.5 Future salary increases 5.0-6.0 6.2 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 1.4-6.0 3.0-3.8 Price inflation 4.0-6.0 3.0-6.0 African other post retirement schemes Discount rate 5.5-10.5 7.3-9.0 Expected return on plan assets 5.8-10.5 7.3-8.5 Future salary increases 5.8-9.0 5.3-9.0 Price inflation 3.5-9.0 5.3-9.0 Health cost inflation 7.3-9.0 5.3-9.0 The calculations are based on actuarially calculated mortality estimates relevant to the economic countries in which they operate, with a specific allowance made for future improvements in mortality which is broadly in line with that adopted for the 92 series of mortality tables prepared by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute of Actuaries.
The expected returns on plan assets have been determined on the basis of long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and the market conditions at the balance sheet date specific to the relevant locations.
The effect to the Groups obligation of a 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed health cost trend rates would be an increase of 13 million and decrease of 11 million 2008: increase of 10 million and decrease of 8 million respectively.
304 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued d Plan asset allocation % Pension Other post-retirement plans benefit schemes At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Equity securities 37.4 38.4 36.6 45.1 Debt securities 40.9 37.4 20.8 24.5 Property 6.8 7.0 5.6 5.5 Cash 3.6 1.0 26.1 23.5 Annuities and other 11.3 16.2 10.9 1.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pension and other retirement benefit plan assets include ordinary shares issued by the Company with a fair value of nil 2008: 0.1 million.
e Summary of Group pension plans m Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 815 Present value of defined benefit obligations 778 675 758 497 Fair value of plan assets 953 828 855 836 508 Surplus 138 50 180 78 11 Experience losses arising on defined benefit plan liabilities: Amount 8 2 5 12 16 1.0 % As a percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 0.7% 1.6% 3.2% Experience gains arising on defined benefit plan assets: Amount 8 69 39 50 40 As a percentage of plan assets 0.8 % 8.3 % 4.3% 6.0% 7.7% Total contributions expected to be paid to the Group pension plans for the year ending 31 December 2010 are 14 million subject to any reassessments to be completed in the year.
Old Mutual plc 305 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued G2: Share-based payments a Share-based payment arrangements During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 2 1 1 3 3 UK Sharesave Scheme 3 3 2-5 2 3 & 5 UK Share Option and 3 3 6 3 Target Deferred Delivery Plan growth in EPS UK Restricted Share Plan 3 3 3-5 3 & 5 3 Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Up to 10 3 Share options years 3 3 Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Not less Restricted Shares than 3 years Old Mutual plc Performance Share plan 3 Up to 10 3 Share Options years Old Mutual plc Performance Share plan 3 3 Not less Target Restricted Shares than 3 growth in years EPS and ROE 2 1 1 3 Old Mutual plc 2008 Sharesave Plan 3 3 2-5 2 3 & 5 South Africa Share Option and 3 6 3 Target Deferred Delivery Plan growth in EPS South Africa Restricted Share Plan 3 3 5 3 3 3 3 OMSA Broad-based Employee Scheme 5 3 4 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 3 3 4-6 4, 5 & 6 OMSA Management Scheme 3 3 3 3-6 3 Target growth in 5 EPS 6 3 3 OMSA Black Business Partners Scheme 10 3 7 OMSA Client & Distributor Scheme 3 3 10 3 7 OMSA Community Scheme 3 3 10 3 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 3 3 3 3-6 3 4 Old Mutual Namibia Senior Black 3 3 4-6 4, 5 & 6 Management Scheme 6 Old Mutual Namibia Broad-based 3 3 5 3 Employee Scheme 6 Old Mutual Namibia Education Scheme 3 3 10 3 6 Old Mutual Namibia Distributor Scheme 3 3 10 3 6 Old Mutual Namibia Community Partners Scheme 3 3 10 3 6 Old Mutual Namibia Black Business 3 3 10 3 Partners Scheme 306 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 6 Old Mutual Namibia Discretionary Scheme 3 10 3 8 Nedcor Group 1994 3 3 6 3 & 4 Target Share Option Scheme growth in headline earnings Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 3 3 5 3 9 10 Nedbank Group 2005 Matched Share Scheme 3 3 5 3 Various 11 Nedbank Eyethu NonExecutive Directors 3 3 6 6 3 Scheme 4 3 3 3 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 4 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 3 3 3 7 4, 5 & 6 3 Nedbank Eyethu Broad-based Employee Scheme 3 3 5 3 6,11 3 3 Nedbank Eyethu Black Business Partner Scheme 10 3 12 13 Nedbank Eyethu Retail Scheme 3 3 3 3 14 Nedbank Eyethu Corporate Scheme 3 3 6 3 4 3 3 3 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Black 7 4, 5 & 6 Management Scheme 6 3 3 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Broad-based 5 3 Employee Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Black Business 3 3 10 3 Partner Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Affinity 3 3 10 3 Group Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omufima Education Scheme 3 3 10 3 15 Nedbank UK Long-term 3 4 3 Target Incentive Plan growth in average ROE Mutual & Federal Share Option Scheme 3 3 6 3 4 3 3 Mutual & Federal Senior Black Management 7 4, 5 & 6 Scheme 3 3 3 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 6 3 7 Mutual & Federal Distributor Scheme 3 3 Indefinite 3 7 Mutual & Federal Community Scheme 3 3 Indefinite 3 6 3 Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners 10 3 Scheme 6 Mutual & Federal Broad-based Employee Scheme 3 3 5 3 Mutual & Federal Namibia Share Option Scheme 3 3 6 3 Old Mutual plc 307 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 4 Mutual & Federal Namibia Senior Black 3 3 7 4, 5 & 6 Management Scheme 7 3 3 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme Indefinite 3 6 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business 3 10 3 Partners Scheme Mutual & Federal Namibia Management Incentive 3 3 3 6 3 Scheme 6 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad-based 3 3 5 3 Employee Scheme 6 3 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Scheme 10 3 1 All share-based payment arrangements are equity settled with the exception of the South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan and the South Africa Restricted Share Plan which are cash-settled.
UK schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the London Stock Exchange.
South Africa, OMSA and Old Mutual schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
Nedcor and Nedbank schemes relate to shares in Nedbank Group Ltd listed on the JSE.
Mutual & Federal schemes relate to shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd listed on the JSE.
Details of schemes related to US Asset Management are provided in note G2 e. 2 Scheme is linked to a savings plan.
3 Earlier of five years or participant being entitled to any other award under any other share incentive scheme of the Company.
4 One third of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
5 Performance target applies to options only.
6 Expiry of the contractual life.
7 Minimum period of ten years.
8 One half of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
9 Matching contributions made by the participant of an amount not more than 50% of their after-tax bonus.
10 Where performance targets are not met, 50% of the instruments granted will become unrestricted.
11 No dealing in these instruments during the notional funding period.
12 For every three shares acquired, participants qualify for an additional bonus share.
13 Participant holds a Nedbank Group Ltd account as their primary account for the contractual life of the instrument.
14 Participant uses Nedbank Group Ltd as their primary banker for contractual life of the instrument.
Nedbank has first right of refusal over all banking requirements.
15 Share appreciation rights SAR scheme, where Nedbank will settle the difference between the current market price and the exercise price in cash, when the employee decides to exercise the SAR.
b Reconciliation of movements in options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Options over shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the year 33,222,022 1.20 30,268,067 1.24 Granted during the year 58,992,582 0.45 17,480,275 1.07 Forfeited during the year 12,451,662 1.05 7,440,893 1.33 Exercised during the year 1,940,138 0.94 6,191,349 0.86 Expired during the year 332,452 1.63 894,078 1.22 Outstanding at end of the year 77,490,352 0.66 33,222,022 1.20 6,234,171 1.06 Exercisable at 31 December 9,765,796 1.07 The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have an exercise price in the range of 0.35 to 1.99 2008: 0.60 to 1.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.7 years 2008: 3.2 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1.12 2008: 1.08.
308 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Options over shares in Old Mutual plc Johannesburg Stock Exchange options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the year 42,623,552 R18.30 33,704,154 R18.15 Granted during the year 34,996,407 R7.79 15,011,301 R18.31 Forfeited during the year 10,334,831 R19.85 3,758,982 R20.07 Exercised during the year 1,015,674 R11.69 2,282,921 R14.07 2,499,125 R13.68 Expired during the year 50,000 R15.15 Outstanding at end of the year 63,770,329 R12.45 42,623,552 R18.30 Exercisable at 31 December 10,457,729 R14.10 14,441,080 R14.28 The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have an exercise price in the range of R7.45 to R23.40 2008: R10.80 to R24.78 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.3 years 2008: 3.7 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R13.63 2008: R18.14.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Options over shares in Nedbank Group Ltd options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the year 41,124,074 R121.61 44,497,984 R119.05 Granted during the year 1,976,504 R82.97 2,152,253 R110.84 Forfeited during the year 1,577,822 R115.88 2,051,134 R114.27 4,207,864 R78.78 Exercised during the year 2,089,408 R68.49 Expired during the year 364,503 R102.75 1,385,621 R113.69 Outstanding at end of the year 36,950,389 R124.86 41,124,074 R121.61 Exercisable at 31 December 6,599,248 R96.86 5,240,727 R73.28 The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have an exercise price in the range of R63.19 to R282.58 2008: R78 to R282.58 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3 years 2008: 3.6 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R113.21 2008: R104.26.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Options over shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the year 5,291,160 R17.33 6,420,700 R14.49 Granted during the year 1,614,690 R14.00 1,595,020 R22.23 Forfeited during the year 359,940 R16.80 793,580 R17.93 Exercised during the year 489,570 R10.60 1,712,050 R9.03 Expired during the year 787,970 R18.83 218,930 R19.89 Outstanding at end of the year 5,268,370 R16.40 5,291,160 R17.33 Exercisable at 31 December 2,483,650 R13.99 2,248,450 R12.03 The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have an exercise price in the range of R2.50 to R27.95 2008: R1.50 to R27.98 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.3 years 2008: 3.5 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R16.15 2008: R17.99.
Old Mutual plc 309 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued c Measurements and assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share options are granted under a service and non-market based performance condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the share options granted.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The grant date for the UK and SA Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan annual awards is deemed to be 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue.
As such the Group is required to estimate, at the reporting date, the number and fair value of the options that will be granted in the following year.
The fair value of awards expected to be granted in 2009 which will have an IFRS 2 grant date of 1 January 2008, is shown separately below.
The grant date for all other awards is the award issue date.
The expected volatility is based on the annualised historic volatility of the share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the date of valuation of the option.
The expected life assumption is based on the average length of time similar grants have remained outstanding in the past and the type of employees to which awards have been granted.
e Sharebased payment arrangements relating to US Asset Management During the year ended 31 December 2009, US Asset Management had the following share-based payment arrangements: Acadian Asset Management AAM Class B equity interests in AAM acquired by employees during 2007 entitled the participating employees to 28.57% of the earnings of AAM in excess of $120 million, and to a liquidation preference proportionate to their shareholding.
In consideration for the equity acquired, the participating employees agreed to forego a portion of existing long-term incentive payments owed.
The difference between the carrying amount of this consideration and the fair value of the interest acquired was treated as share-based compensation expense in 2007.
Fair value was determined based on the discounted projected future cash flows of AAM.
310 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan Equity granted during the year to employees of firms participating in the OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan vests 3-5 years from the date of grant, conditional upon continued employment over this period.
Fair value was determined based on a multiple of prior year earnings.
Under the terms of the arrangements, participating employees may sell their equity back to Old Mutual which acts as a buyer of last resort at a fixed multiple of prior year earnings, subject to certain restrictions.
Accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments, despite the fact the initial purchase and or grants of equity are settled in equity instruments.
The following summarises the fair value of instruments purchased from and granted by US Asset Management during the year: Total Affiliate shares non-controlling Affiliate share Affiliate share forfeited interest in Fair value of instruments granted and purchased during the year purchases grants bought back affiliate 1 AAM 2009 2008 2007 28.57% 28.57% OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan 2009 0.48% 0.44% 0.22 % 0.70% 2008 3.9% 2.5% 0.4 % 6.0% 2007 2.4% 7.3% 9.7% 2 Total fair value of instruments $USm 2009 $2.4m $2.4m 2008 $6m $6m 2007 $17m $9m $26m 1 Percentage of Class B equity.
2 Represents fair value in excess of consideration granted for affiliate share purchases.
US Asset Management annual bonus awards The OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan is incorporated into annual bonus awards of employees at participating firms, which are to be settled partly in cash, and partly in equity.
The level of bonus is contingent upon current year financial and individual performance, therefore the vesting period for bonus equity to be granted during 2010 in respect of the 2009 financial year has been determined to commence from 1 January 2009.
It is anticipated that instruments with a fair value of US$8.7 million 2008: US$3.5 million will be granted during 2010 to firms participating in the OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan based on 2009 financial performance.
Old Mutual plc 311 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued f Restricted share grants The following summarises the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Number Weighted granted average fair value UK Restricted Share Plan 2009 2008 7,013,741 1.22 UK Share Reward Plan Restricted Shares 2009 8,713,091 0.54 2008 UK Performance Reward Plan Restricted Shares 2009 3,091,695 0.58 2008 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 2009 7,737,889 R8.56 2008 3,546,385 R16.62 OMSA Management Scheme 2009 27,739,043 R7.47 2008 10,924,260 R18.68 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 2009 643,089 R7.45 2008 112,596 R19.07 Old Mutual Namibia Senior Black Management Scheme 2009 85,457 R8.18 2008 456,879 R14.69 Nedbank Group 2005 Matched Share Scheme 2009 194,248 R67.77 2008 295,983 R95.26 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 2009 31,791 R84.12 2008 92,666 R108.76 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 2009 168,313 R77.28 2008 167,864 R108.76 Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 2009 5,080,170 R75.36 2008 2,516,999 R111.53 Mutual & Federal Senior Black Management Scheme 2009 101,880 R16.17 2008 167,378 R18.85 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 2009 1,599,220 R13.79 2008 1,777,790 R22.46 Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners Scheme 2009 282,501 R13.63 2008 145,090 R26.35 2009 54,550 R13.50 Mutual & Federal Namibia Management Incentive Scheme 2008 53,770 R22.50 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Senior Business Management Scheme 2009 810 R17.50 2008 The share price at measurement date was used to determine the fair value of the restricted shares.
Expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value where the holder of the restricted share is entitled to dividends throughout the vesting period.
312 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued g Annual bonus awards The UK and South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plans give rise to annual bonus awards.
The level of annual bonus awards is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of individual and Company performance targets, measured over the financial year prior to the date the employees receive the award.
The accounting grant date for the SA and UK annual bonus plans other than the new joiner and newly qualified grants has therefore been determined as 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue of the grants.
The Group anticipates awards under the South African scheme of 12,523,680 options 2008: 10,770,000 options and 12,643,027 restricted shares 2008: 8,420,000 restricted shares.
The options have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using an at the money option assumption.
The restricted shares have been valued using a share price of R13.18 2008: R7.60.
The Group estimate of the total fair value of the annual bonus expected to be paid in the form of options and restricted shares under the UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan is outlined below.
The fair value is determined by making an estimate of the level of bonus to be paid out following the attainment of personal and Company performance conditions.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Total fair Vesting Total fair Vesting value, m period value, m period Old Mutual plc performance share plans restricted shares 9 4.2 years 3 4.2 years Old Mutual plc performance share plans options 7 4.2 years 1 4.2 years h Financial impact Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Expense arising from equity settled share and share option plans 35 21 7 Expense arising from cash settled share and share option plans 3 42 24 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share awards 19 15 Total intrinsic value liability for vested benefits G3: Related parties The Group provides certain pension fund, insurance, banking and financial services to related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
a Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the compensation paid to the Board of Directors as well as their shareholdings in the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 168 and Corporate Governance Statement on page 150 respectively.
Old Mutual plc 313 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Directors fees 9 1,214 8 1,124 Remuneration 13,590 9,924 Cash remuneration 13 4,777 12 5,971 Short-term employee benefits 13 4,159 17 1,285 Post employment benefits 12 587 8 665 Other long-term benefits 3 7 4 7 Share-based payments 12 4,060 11 1,996 14,804 11,048 Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Number of Number of options Number of options Share options personnel shares 000s personnel shares 000s Outstanding at beginning of the year 10 7,393 11 12,592 3 848 Leavers 4 7,706 New appointments 2 410 1 1,316 Granted during the year 9 10,803 9 1,525 Exercised during the year 3 1,171 3 191 Lapsed during the year 3 974 3 143 Outstanding at end of the year 11 15,613 10 7,393 Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Number of Number of options Number of options Restricted shares personnel shares 000s personnel shares 000s Outstanding at beginning of the year 9 4,020 11 6,270 Leavers 3 724 4 4,325 New appointments 1 60 1 900 Granted during the year 10 5,376 8 1,741 Lapsed during the year 1 119 Released during the year 5 781 4 566 Outstanding at end of the year 10 7,832 9 4,020 314 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued c Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below.
For current accounts positive values indicate assets of the individual whilst for credit cards and mortgages positive values indicate liabilities of the individual.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Current accounts Balance at beginning of the year 6 11 6 40 Net movement during the year 276 51 Balance at end of the year 7 265 6 11 Credit cards Balance at beginning of the year 4 12 5 16 10 Net movement during the year 4 Balance at end of the year 4 22 4 12 Mortgages Balance at beginning of the year 4 1,896 5 2,014 Net movement during the year 1,509 421 Interest charged 190 194 Less repayments 863 716 296 Foreign exchange movements 17 Balance at end of the year 5 3,028 4 1,896 General insurance contracts Total premium paid during the year 5 33 5 25 Claims paid during the year 2 3 1 18 Life insurance products Total sum assured value of investment at end of the year 12 11,550 12 8,397 Pensions, termination benefits paid Value of pension plan as at end of the year 11 5,648 10 9,500 Various members of key management personnel hold, and or have at various times during the year held, investments managed by asset management businesses of the Group.
These include unit trusts, mutual funds and hedge funds.
None of the amounts concerned are material in the context of the funds managed by the Group business concerned, and all of the investments have been made by the individuals concerned either on terms which are the same as those available to external clients generally or, where that is not the case, on the same preferential terms as were available to employees of the business generally.
Old Mutual plc 315 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued d Skandia Liv  Skandia publ Skandia Liv, is a related party to the Old Mutual Group.
Skandia Liv is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia and its business is conducted on a mutual basis.
For the reasons given in the accounting policies Skandia Livs result is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Material transactions between the Group and the Skandia Liv group in the twelve months ended 31 December 2009 were as follows: Agreement in principle and framework agreement on co-operation covering market related functions and certain staff functions this involves distribution and distribution support, customer service, market communication, administration of group insurance products, and staff and service functions.
Skandia Liv paid 73 million 2008: 52 million for services rendered under this agreement.
Premises the Group rents office premises from Skandia Liv.
The Group paid market rents of 15 million 2008: 15 million for these premises.
Occupational pensions Skandia Liv provides occupational pensions for the employees of the Group, for which the Group paid 19 million 2008: 15 million.
Agreement on IT services the Group provides IT services to Skandia Liv.
The amount charged to Skandia Liv was 7 million 2008: 9 million.
Settlement with Skandia Liv regarding the arbitration settlement In a ruling issued on 2 October 2008, the arbitration board ruled that the going rate level of compensation in the market pursuant to the 2002 Asset Management Agreement is a maximum of ten basis points including value added tax, and that Skandia for the time from 1 July 2008 and onward is obligated to pay an amount to Skandia Liv that corresponds to the share of asset management fees received that exceed ten basis points including value added tax.
A reserve to cover asset management fees for the time after 1 July 2008 was charged to the income statement.
As per 21 July 2009, an agreement has been reached between Skandia and Skandia Liv, under which Skandia will pay a fixed amount per quarter until the end of 2013.
The total remaining amount to be paid to Skandia Liv is thereby less than the reserve provision booked as per July 2009.
The difference was solved during the third quarter of 2009.
The effect of this was a release of 10 million.
The remaining provision of 17.8 million has been reclassified and is shown as a liability to Skandia Liv in the statement of financial position.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2009 due from Skandia Liv is 1.6 million 2008: 13 million.
Various other arrangements exist between the Group and Skandia Liv, principally in respect of provision of accounting, legal and treasury functions, all of which are transacted on an arms length basis.
Arbitration settlement During the previous financial year settlement was reached in the arbitration proceedings between Skandia, and Skandia Liv in respect of the sale of the Skandia Asset Management business to Den Norske Bank in 2002. e Nedbank Ltd During the year a Group subsidiary, Nedbank Limited, provided funding to the Group.
The funding was made through two loans of EUR 69.5 million and 58.9 million with interest charged at EURIBOR and 6.55% respectively.
Both the loans have a maturity date of 6 August 2012.
316 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued G4: Principal subsidiaries and Group enterprises The following table lists the principal Group undertakings whose results are included in the consolidated financial statements.
All shares held are ordinary shares and, except for OM Group UK Ltd, are held indirectly by the Company.
Name Nature of business Percentage holding Country of incorporation Old Mutual South Africa Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa OM Africa Holdings Pty Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Ltd Life assurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Ltd Asset management 100 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Group Ltd Banking 59 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Ltd Banking 59 Republic of South Africa 1 Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd General insurance 84 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Namibia Ltd Life assurance 100 Namibia Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA Old Mutual U. S. Life Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA Dwight Asset Management Company Asset management 100 Delaware, USA OM Financial Life Insurance Company Life assurance 100 Maryland, USA Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd Life assurance 100 Bermuda 2 Acadian Asset Management Asset management 100 Massachusetts, USA Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Inc Asset management 100 Nevada, USA OM Group UK Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd Life assurance 100 England and Wales Skandia UK Holdings Limited Holding company 100 England and Wales  Skandia Life assurance 100 Sweden Skandiabanken AB Banking 100 Sweden Old Mutual Netherlands B. V. Holding company 100 Netherlands 1 Following regulatory approval on 19 January 2010 the Group acquired the outstanding equity share previously held by non-controlling interests and as a result now holds 100% of the share capital of Mutual & Federal.
2 The Group holds 100% Class A shares and 71.43% Class B shares in Acadian Asset Management.
The remaining 28.57% Class B shares are held by the employees as described in note G2 e. A complete list of subsidiaries is filed with the UK Registrar of Companies with the annual return.
All the above companies have a year-end of 31 December.
As described in the accounting policies Skandia Liv is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Skandia Livs unaudited capital and reserves are summarised as follows: m unaudited At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Capital & Reserves 27 25 Profit loss after tax 5 7 G5: Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures a Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures The Groups investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method are as follows: m % interest Carrying Group share At 31 December 2009 Country of operation held value of profit loss Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 23 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 9 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 10 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 16 3 Skandia BSAM China 50% 8 2 All other associated undertakings 69 1 135 2 Old Mutual plc 317 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued All of the above investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are unlisted.
All investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2008. m % interest Carrying Group share At 31 December 2008 Country of operation held value of profit loss Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 19 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 8 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 8 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 13 3 Skandia BSAM China 50% 11 3 All other associated undertakings 52 5 111 1 b Aggregate financial information of investments in associated undertakings The aggregate financial information for all investments in associated undertakings is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Total assets 1,426 1,131 Total liabilities 1,002 1,014 Total revenues 603 495 Net profit loss after tax 2 1 c Aggregate Group investment in associated undertakings The aggregate amounts for the Groups investment in associated undertakings are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of the year 111 81 Net additions of investment in associated undertakings 4 18 Share of profit loss after tax 2 1 Dividends paid 6 8 Foreign exchange and other movements 24 21 Balance at end of the year 135 111 The Group has no significant investments in which it owns less than 20% of the ordinary share capital that it accounts for using the equity method.
d Contingent liabilities The Group is severally liable for the contingent liabilities relating to investments in associated undertakings of 1 million 2008: 1 million.
e Other Group holdings The above does not include companies whereby the Group has a holding of more than 20%, but does not have significant influence over these companies by virtue of the Group not having any direct involvement in decision making or the other owners possessing veto rights.
318 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued G6: Contingent liabilities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 2,375 1,839 Irrevocable letters of credit 605 760 Secured lending 555 383 Other contingent liabilities 49 393 The Group has pledged debt securities amounting to 1,253 million 2008: 1,533 million as collateral for deposits received under re-purchase agreements.
These amounts represent assets that have been transferred but do not qualify for derecognition under IAS 39.
Nedbank structured financing Historically a number of the Groups South Africa banking businesses entered into structured finance transactions with third parties using the tax base of these companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the majority of these transactions, the underlying third party has contractually agreed to accept the risk of any tax being imposed by the South African Revenue Service SARS, although the obligation to pay in the first instance rests with the Groups companies.
It is only in limited cases where, for example, the credit quality of a client becomes doubtful, or where the client has specifically contracted out of the re-pricing of additional taxes, that the recovery from a client could be less than the liability that could arise on assessment, in which case provisions are made.
SARS has examined the tax aspects of some of these types of structures and SARS could assess these structures in a manner different to that initially envisaged by the contracting parties.
As a result Group companies could be obliged to pay additional amounts to SARS and recover these from clients under the applicable contractual arrangements.
Nedbank litigation There are a number of legal or potential claims against Nedbank and its subsidiary companies, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
The largest of these potential actions is a claim in the High Court for R1.3 billion against Nedbank by certain shareholders in Pinnacle Point Group Limited, alleging that Nedbank had a legal duty of care to them arising from a share swap transaction.
Nedbank and its legal advisers are of the opinion that the claim is without merit and will be defended vigorously.
G7: Commitments Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are detailed in the table below.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Investment property Property, plant and equipment 104 37 Commitments to extend credit to customers The following table presents the contractual amounts of the Groups financial instruments not included in the statement of financial position that commit it to extend credit to customers.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Original term to maturity of one year or less 1,983 2,467 Original term to maturity of more than one year 1,002 115 Other commitments, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 63 441 Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and for security deposits relating to local futures, options and stock exchange memberships.
Mandatory reserve deposits are also held with local Central Banks in accordance with statutory requirements.
These deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
Commitments under the Groups operating lease arrangements are described in note G8.
Old Mutual plc 319 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Notes to the coNsolidated fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued G8: Operating lease arrangements a The Group as lessee m Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable NonNonBanking banking Total Banking banking Total operating leases, fall due as follows: Within one year 117 35 152 38 36 74 In the second to fifth years inclusive 212 115 327 117 148 265 After five years 240 72 312 170 114 284 569 222 791 325 298 623 b The Group as lessor At At 31 December 31 December m m Assets subject to operating leases 2009 2008 Land 12 5 Buildings 70 28 Investment property 1,759 1,478 1,841 1,511 At At 31 December 31 December m m Future minimum lease payments of contracts with tenants 2009 2008 Within one year 62 57 In the second to fifth years inclusive 149 132 After five years 21 27 232 216 G9: Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, and investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group will be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
Total funds under management are disclosed in note B5.
G10: Events after the reporting date On 8 February 2010, Nedbank announced that it had received regulatory approval of the acquisition of Imperial Holdings 49.9% indirect interest in Imperial Bank Limited, thereby satisfying all conditions precedent for the acquisition.
The purchase consideration, of approximately 153 million will be settled out of the existing cash resources of Nedbank Limited over a period of six months, commencing from 8 February 2010.
Nedbank intends to submit an application to the South African Reserve whereby it will amalgamate all the assets of Imperial Bank with those of Nedbank.
On 5 February 2010, the Group announced the completion of the acquisition of the remaining minority shareholdings in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, following the fulfilment of all outstanding conditions precedent.
On 8 February 2010, 147,313,449 new Old Mutual plc ordinary shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange in connection with the acquisition.
320 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy compaNy statemeNt of fiNaNcial positioN At 31 December 2009 At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2009 2008 Assets 9 Investments in Group subsidiaries 8,993 7,595 10 Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 4 Investments and securities 39 5 Other assets including inter-company 1,644 2,943 2 Derivative financial instruments assets 176 197 414 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Total assets 11,253 10,803 Liabilities 3 Borrowed funds 1,406 1,037 7 Provisions 17 20 6 Other liabilities including inter-company 4,628 4,679 2 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 58 91 Total liabilities 6,109 5,827 Net assets 5,144 4,976 Shareholders equity Equity attributable to equity holders 5,144 4,976 The Companys financial statements on pages 321 to 337 were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2010.
Julian Roberts Philip Broadley Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Old Mutual plc 321 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy compaNy statemeNt of cash flows At 31 December 2009 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 139 411 Capital gains included in investment income 4 6 Fair value movements on derivatives and borrowed funds 230 489 Foreign exchange movements on assets and liabilities 56 308 Other non cash amounts in profit 1 Non-cash movements in profit before tax 178 174 Other operating assets and liabilities 87 6 Changes in working capital 87 6 Net cash inflow from operating activities 404 243 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale and maturity of other investments 11 Acquisition of interests in subsidiaries 3 Purchase of interest in associates and joint ventures 1 Net cash inflow outflow from investing activities 11 4 Cash flows from financing activities External interest received 90 91 External interest paid 129 162 Inter-company interest received 1 Inter-company interest paid 38 33 Dividends paid to: Ordinary shareholders of the Company 214 Preferred shareholders 45 43 Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 4 10 Net purchase of treasury shares 6 5 Redemption of own shares 1 175 Issue of subordinated and other debt 542 96 Other debt repaid 404 64 Loan financing received from paid to Group companies 16 228 Net cash outflow from financing activities 1 270 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 414 31 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3 7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 3 41 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 414 3 At 31 December 2009 and 2008 all cash and cash equivalents were in the form of cash balances.
During the year the Company recorded total dividend income from subsidiary undertakings of 658 million 2008: 343 million, of which only cash dividends from Skandia UK Holdings Limited of 55 million were received during the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: 55 million.
322 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy compaNy statemeNt of chaNges iN equity For the year ended 31 December 2009 Millions m Number Perpetual of shares preferred issued and Share Share Other Retained callable Year ended 31 December 2009 fully paid capital premium reserves earnings securities Total Attributable to equity holders of the Company at beginning of the year 5,516 552 766 2,561 409 688 4,976 Profit for the year 156 45 201 Total recognised income and expense for the year 156 45 201 Dividends for the year 45 45 Shares repurchased in the buy back programme 1 1 Net purchase of treasury shares 3 3 Issue of share capital by the Company 2 2 Exercise of share options 2 2 2 Fair value of equity settled share options 10 10 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 5,518 552 770 2,571 563 688 5,144 Millions m Number Perpetual of shares preferred issued and Share Share Other Retained callable Year ended 31 December 2008 fully paid capital premium reserves earnings securities Total Attributable to equity holders of the Company at beginning of the year 5,510 551 757 2,554 435 688 4,985 Profit for the year 368 43 411 Total recognised income and expense for the year 368 43 411 Dividends for the year 214 43 257 Shares repurchased in the buy back programme 175 175 Net purchase of treasury shares 5 5 Issue of share capital by the Company 5 5 Exercise of share options 6 1 4 5 Fair value of equity settled share options 7 7 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 5,516 552 766 2,561 409 688 4,976 Included within retained earnings of 563 million 2008: 409 million are distributable reserves of 514 million 2008: 158 million.
At At 31 December 31 December m m Other reserves 2009 2008 Merger reserve 2,532 2,532 Share based payment reserve 39 29 Attributable to equity holders of Company at end of the year 2,571 2,561 Old Mutual plc 323 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Financial assets and liabilities Company statement of financial position The Company is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities and inter-company balances.
The most important components of financial risk for the Company are interest rate risk, currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
The principal risk the Company faces is currency risk.
The Companys functional and presentational currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal subsidiaries are South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and euro.
m Fair value through income statement Available Held-toFinancial Nonfor sale maturity liabilities financial Held-forfinancial investLoans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2009 Total trading Designated assets ments receivables cost liabilities Assets Investments in Group subsidiaries 8,993 8,993 Investment in associated undertakings 26 26 Other assets including inter-company 1,644 1,501 143 Derivative financial instruments assets 176 176 Cash and cash equivalents 414 414 11,253 176 1,915 9,162 Liabilities Borrowed funds 1,406 761 645 17 17 Provisions Other liabilities including inter-company 4,628 4,569 59 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 58 58 6,109 58 761 5,214 76 m Fair value through income statement Available Held-toFinancial Nonfor sale maturity liabilities financial Held-forfinancial investLoans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2008 Total trading Designated assets ments receivables cost liabilities Assets Investments in Group subsidiaries 7,595 7,595 Investment in associated undertakings 26 26 Investments and securities 39 39 Other assets including inter-company 2,943 2,839 104 Derivative financial instruments assets 197 197 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 10,803 197 39 2,842 7,725 Liabilities Borrowed funds 1,037 541 496 Provisions 20 20 Other liabilities including inter-company 4,679 4,561 118 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 91 91 5,827 91 541 5,057 138 324 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Analysis of instruments at fair value m Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At 31 December 2009 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 176 176 Investments and securities Derivative financial instruments assets 176 176 Total financial assets measured at fair value 176 176 Financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 58 58 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 58 58 Designated fair value through income statement 761 761 Borrowed funds 761 761 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 819 761 58 m Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At 31 December 2008 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 236 236 Investments and securities 39 39 Derivative financial instruments assets 197 197 Total financial assets measured at fair value 236 236 Financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 91 91 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 91 91 Designated fair value through income statement 541 541 Borrowed funds 541 541 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 632 541 91 Old Mutual plc 325 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Financial instruments designated as fair value through income statement Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
In the prior year, the maximum exposure to credit risk on investments and securities was 39 million.
Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual financial maturity At 31 December 2009 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 761 264 200 966 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual financial maturity At 31 December 2008 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 541 489 471 1,017 c Capital risk management Old Mutual plc is the holding company of the Group and is responsible for the raising and allocation of capital in line with the Groups capital management policies set out in note E11 to the consolidated financial statements and for ensuring the operational funding and regulatory capital needs of the holding company and its subsidiaries are met at all times.
d Currency risk The Company is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Companys functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currency of its principal operations is South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and Euro.
The Company hedges some of this currency translation risk through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange rate contracts.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward exchange contracts and currency swap agreements.
326 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued The table below summarises the Companys exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk: m ReclassiAt 31 December 2009 GBP ZAR USD Euro SEK Other fication Total Assets Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial instruments 1 assets 10 6 31 129 176 Cash and cash equivalents 382 32 414 Other assets 7,857 11 1,056 145 1,557 11 10,637 Total assets 8,275 11 1,094 176 1,557 11 129 11,253 Liabilities 2 Borrowed funds 672 55 244 54 306 75 1,406 Derivative financial instruments 3 liabilities 4 54 58 Other liabilities 2,451 3 1,704 470 17 4,645 Total liabilities 3,123 62 1,948 524 323 129 6,109 m ReclassiAt 31 December 2008 GBP ZAR USD Euro SEK Other fication Total Assets Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Investments and securities 39 39 Derivative financial instruments 1 assets 11 13 24 149 197 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Other assets 7,745 1,408 50 1,311 24 10,538 Total assets 7,821 1,421 74 1,311 27 149 10,803 Liabilities 2 Borrowed funds 76 420 153 296 92 1,037 Derivative financial instruments 3 liabilities 25 7 2 57 91 Other liabilities 2,530 1,847 279 35 8 4,699 Total liabilities 2,606 25 2,274 432 333 8 149 5,827 1 The reclassified derivative financial instruments of 129 million 2008: 149 million represent currency hedges for borrowed funds and so have been reclassified and netted against USD borrowed funds.
2 The totals of 672 million GBP 2008: 76 million, 244 million USD 2008: 420 million and 306 million SEK 2008: 296 million of borrowed funds have been disclosed as net of hedges in derivative financial instruments of 88 million 2008: 114 million, 41m 2008: 35 million and 54 million 2008: 57 million respectively.
3 The derivative financial instrument of 54 million 2008: 57 million represents a currency hedge for borrowed funds and so have been reclassed and netted against SEK borrowed funds.
A 10% deterioration in the values of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP would result in an increase in the Companys equity holders funds of 2 million 2008: increase of 23 million.
Old Mutual plc 327 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued e Credit risk The Company is principally exposed to credit risk through cash at bank and the ability of the subsidiaries to repay debts, which it holds to back shareholder liabilities.
Credit risk is managed by placing limits on exposures to any single counterparty, or groups of counterparties and to geographical and industry segments.
Credit risk is monitored with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposure to below investment grade holdings.
The following table analyses the credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent by investment grade of financial assets bearing credit risk: m SubInvestment investment Grade AAA Grade BB At 31 December 2009 to BBB and lower Not rated Total Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial instruments assets 176 176 Other assets including inter-company 1,644 1,644 Cash and cash equivalents 414 414 Financial assets bearing credit risk 590 1,670 2,260 At 31 December 2008 m Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial instruments assets 197 197 Investments and securities 39 39 Other assets including inter-company 2,943 2,943 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Financial assets bearing credit risk 200 3,008 3,208 f Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that fluctuating interest rates will unfavourably affect the Companys earnings and the value of its assets, liabilities and capital.
The Company employs currency and interest rate swap transactions to mitigate against the impact of changes in the fair values of its borrowed funds.
Details of the arrangements in place are shown in the Group Accounts note E7 Hedge accounting.
g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Companys short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company has net current liabilities of 1,142 million 2008: 2,167 million, all of which represent liabilities to other group companies or finance vehicles of loans that often have short maturity dates or embedded call options.
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows of both the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Companys existing revolving current facility of 1.25 billion does not mature until September 2012.
Details, together with information on the Companys borrowed funds, are given in note 3.
The key information reviewed by the Companys executive directors and executive committee, together with the capital management committee, is a detailed management report on the Companys current and planned capital and liquidity position.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on new information received, and as part of the annual business planning cycle.
The Companys liquidity and capital position and forecast is presented to the Companys Board of Directors on a regular basis.
Further information on liquidity and the Companys cash flows is contained in other sections of this annual report, for example the business review and Group Finance Directors statement.
328 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 2 Derivative financial instruments The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at the year end.
These instruments allow the Company and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Company undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Company.
m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2009 values values Assets Liabilities Exchange rate contracts Swaps 567 353 129 54 Forwards 113 95 4 680 448 129 58 Interest rate contracts Swaps 987 47 Total 1,667 448 176 58 m Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative At 31 December 2008 values values Assets Liabilities Exchange rate contracts Swaps 602 356 149 57 Forwards 205 544 7 34 807 900 156 91 Interest rate contracts Swaps 1,041 41 Total 1,848 900 197 91 The contractual maturities of the derivatives held are as follows: m More than No Balance 3 months Between contractual sheet Less than less than 1 and More than maturity At 31 December 2009 amount 3 months 1 year 5 years 5 years date Total Derivative financial liabilities 58 4 54 58 m More than No Balance 3 months Between contractual sheet Less than less than 1 and More than maturity At 31 December 2008 amount 3 months 1 year 5 years 5 years date Total Derivative financial liabilities 91 34 57 91 Old Mutual plc 329 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 3 Borrowed funds At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2009 2008 3 i Senior debt securities and term loan 645 496 3 ii Subordinated debt securities 761 541 Total borrowed funds 1,406 1,037 At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Fair valued through income statement 761 541 Amortised cost 645 496 Total borrowed funds 1,406 1,037 The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash flows based on contractual maturity dates for borrowed funds.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Less than 1 year 171 463 Greater than 1 year and less than 5 years 1,279 1,242 Greater than 5 years 536 Borrowed funds 1,986 1,705 i Senior debt securities and term loan At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 89 Floating rate notes 49 Fixed rate notes 556 153 Revolving credit facility 294 Total senior debt securities and term loan 645 496 The Company has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007, syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility by a further two years until September 2012.
At 31 December 2009, 480 million 2008: 826 million of this facility was utilised, all in the form of irrecoverable letters of credit 2008: 532 million.
In the current year there was no form of drawn debt 2008: 294 million.
During the year, the Company repaid a 100 million Eurobond note and $10 million USD bond.
In the current year the Company issued a 500 million bond note and two ZAR R550 million and R100 million floating rate bond notes.
330 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued ii Subordinated debt securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 1 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 252 239 2 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5% 509 302 Total subordinated debt securities 761 541 1 This bond, issued on 20 January 2006, has a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pays a coupon of 5.0% to 21 January 2011 and six month LIBOR plus 1.13% thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into a floating rate of six month STIBOR plus 0.50%.
The Company has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at six monthly intervals thereafter.
2 This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5% to 17 January 2012 and six month EURIBOR plus 0.96% thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into Sterling and US dollars with coupons of six month LIBOR plus 0.34% and six month US LIBOR plus 0.31% respectively.
The Company has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at six monthly intervals thereafter.
4 Investments and securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Equity securities at fair value through income statement Unlisted 38 Other 1 Total investments and securities 39 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity profile.
Of the prior year amounts shown above 38 million were regarded as current and 1 million as non-current.
5 Other assets At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Other receivables 10 10 Corporation tax 89 27 Accrued interest and rent 43 65 Other prepayments and accrued income 1 2 Amounts owed by Group undertakings: Amounts falling due within one year 162 Amounts falling due after one year 1,339 2,839 Total other assets 1,644 2,943 6 Other liabilities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Accruals and deferred income 59 98 Amounts owed to Group undertakings: 1,388 Amount falling due within one year 2,012 Amount falling due after one year 3,181 2,549 Other liabilities 20 Total other liabilities 4,628 4,679 7 Provisions At At 31 December 31 December m m Note 2009 2008 Post employment benefits 8 17 20 Old Mutual plc 331 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 8 Post employment benefits The Company holds a provision in respect of the Old Mutual Staff Pension Fund Defined Benefit pension scheme, which provides benefits based on final pensionable pay for members within the Group.
The assets of the scheme are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to the scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benefits over the remaining lives of participating employees.
The scheme is reviewed on a triennial basis.
During the year 2 employees 2008: 4 were directly employed by the Company.
The costs for these Directors and ex-Directors are disclosed within the Remuneration Report on pages 167 to 168.
Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December m m Liability for defined benefit obligations 2009 2008 Change in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 55 56 3 Interest cost on benefit obligation 3 Actuarial gain losses 3 4 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 61 55 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 35 37 2 Actual return on plan assets 6 Company contributions 4 4 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 41 35 Net liability recognised in statement of financial position Funded status of plan 20 20 Recognised actuarial loss 3 Net amount recognised in statement of financial position 17 20 Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December m m Expense recognised in the income statement 2009 2008 Expected return on plan assets 2 2 Interest costs 3 3 Total 1 1 332 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December m m Principal actuarial assumptions 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.7-5.8% 5.5-5.8% Expected returns on plan assets: 7.5-8.4% Equities 6.7-8.8% Debt 4.5-5.8% 3.7-5.8% Cash 0.5-5.7% 3.8-5.5% Annuities and other 5.7-6.5% 5.5-8.8% Future salary increases 4.8% 4.1-4.9% Price inflation 3.8-4.6% 2.8-3.1% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 3.8% 2.8-3.1% Pension plans Year to Year to 31 December 31 December m m Plan asset allocation 2009 2008 Equity securities 37% 34% Debt securities 60% 62% Other investments 3% 4% m Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2005 Present value of defined benefit obligations 61 55 56 56 55 Fair value of plan assets 41 35 37 32 27 Deficit 20 20 19 24 28 Experience losses arising on defined benefit plan liabilities: Amount 1 As a percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 2.0% 0.4 % Experience gains arising on defined benefit plan assets: 1 Amount 7 1 3 As a percentage 3.0% 18.5 % 1.8 % 9.9% Old Mutual plc 333 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read fiNaNcial statemeNts of the compaNy Notes to the compaNy fiNaNcial statemeNts For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 9 Principal subsidiaries At At 31 December 31 December m m 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of the year 7,595 4,792 Acquisitions 1,844 Additions 1,417 959 Impairments 19 Balance at end of the year 8,993 7,595 The Company purchased additional Ordinary shares in Commsale 2000 Limited during the year being 15,000,000 Ordinary shares and 5,000,000 Ordinary shares on 22 May 2009 and 21 December 2009 respectively.
On 16 June 2009, the Company increased its investment in the Ordinary shares of Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited by 350 million via a reduction in loan financing.
On 17 November 2009, the Company increased its investment in the Ordinary share capital of OM Group UK by 900 million via a reduction in loan financing.
During 2009, the Company made a further investment of 136,086,885 in Millpencil Limited via a reduction in loan financing.
Also, included within additions is the Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings in respect of movements on the share based payments 10 million.
No companies were dissolved during the year.
Also during the year Papercoast Limited changed its name to Skandia Investment Group Holdings Limited.
The Company holds the following interests in Group companies: Country of incorporation Class of shares % interest held At 31 December 2009 Commsale 2000 Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited Guernsey Ordinary 100%  Skandia publ Sweden Ordinary 100% Millpencil Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% England & Wales Ordinary 100% OM Group UK Ltd Old Mutual Asset Solutions Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Capital Funding Jersey Limited Jersey Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Finance No.
2 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 50% Old Mutual Finance No.
4 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Old Mutual Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia Investment Group Holdings England & Wales Ordinary 100% Sandlord Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Selestia Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia London Ltd England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% Skandia UK Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100% 334 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
