GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 117 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this notice or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser.
To all shareholders NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the twenty-first Annual General Meeting of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC will be held at the offices of RBS Hoare Govett Limited at 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA on 11 February 2010 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes: As ordinary business 1 To receive and consider the Companys Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009 and the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors.
2 To consider and adopt the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
4 To re-appoint as a director Mr T C Eccles who retires under Article 77 b.
5 To re-appoint as a director Mr A K Fletcher who retires under Article 77 a.
6 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
As special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolution 7 as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 8, 9, 10 and 11 as special resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions 7 THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 99,400,000 PROVIDED THAT this authority shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution and the close of business on 10 May 2011 unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Resolutions 8 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 7, the Board be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 571 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 and or where allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 3 as if sub-section 1 of Section 561 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders and in favour of all holders of any other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all such persons on a fixed record date are proportionate The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 117 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 118 C as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever : and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 14,900,000 and shall expire upon the renewal of this power or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 10 May 2011, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
9 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange PLC of ordinary shares of 1 each in the share capital of the Company Ordinary Shares provided that:- a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 29,900,000 representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares : b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market price shown in the quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the close of business on 10 August 2011: and e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
10 THAT a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
11 THAT the Articles of Association of the Company shall be amended with effect from the conclusion of the Meeting by making the alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association of the Company produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
By order of the Board JOHN G GEMMELL Company Secretary Registered and Head Office: St Catherines Court Herbert Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QE 24 November 2009 Registered in England No.
2336032 118 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 119 C A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint another person as their proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that the member specifies the number of shares in relation to which each proxy is appointed and each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A proxy form is enclosed for use in connection with the meeting.
Proxy forms and any power of attorney or other written authority under which they are executed or an office or notarially certified copy thereof should be lodged with the Registrar of the Company at the address shown on the reverse of the proxy form by 10.00 a. m. on Tuesday 9 February 2010.
The appointment of a proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described below will not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting.
The proxy appointment rights described above do not apply to any person nominated to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 by a member who holds shares on behalf of that person.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, Shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 10.00 a. m. on Tuesday 9 February 2010 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 23 November 2009 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 299,159,605 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, of which 668,900 were held in treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 November 2009 are 298,490,705.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 by 10.00 a. m. on Tuesday 9 February 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 119 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 120 Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than Tuesday 29 December 2009, being the date 6 clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
The register of directors interests, copies of directors service contracts and letters of appointment of non executive directors will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting from 9.30 a. m. on the date of such meeting until the conclusion thereof.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association and a copy of the existing Articles of Association marked to show the changes being proposed in Resolution 11 will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting from 9.30 a. m. on the date of such meeting until the conclusion thereof.
The Report and Accounts have been sent to the Companys shareholders.
Biographical details of current directors are provided on pages 12 and 13.
120 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 121 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 121 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 122 122 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 123 This Financial Report is printed on environmentally friendly paper.
Fibre source - 80% recycled post-consumer fibre, 10% Totally Chlorine Free virgin fibre and 10% Elemental Chlorine Free fibre.
GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 - BC 10 12 09 16:50 Page 124 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC St Catherine's Court Herbert Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QE Telephone: 0121 712 2323 www.
