GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 33 Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the financial statements.
The directors are required to records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud prepare company financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
In and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors respect of the financial statements for the year ended 30 report and directors remuneration report which comply with the September 2009 company law requires the directors to prepare applicable requirements of the Companies Act 2006. such financial statements in accordance with International The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Financial Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statements requires that financial statements present fairly for The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: each financial year the Companys financial position, financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the representation of the effects of transactions, other events and European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the and of the Group taken as a whole: and International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually the business review, which is incorporated into the Directors all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by Report, includes a fair review of the development and compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting performance of the business and the position of the Group Standards.
Directors are also required to: taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and the Board.
understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting JOHN G GEMMELL Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the Company Secretary impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 24 November 2009 on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 33
