40 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied during the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of preparation i Accounting Standards applied The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts, issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009.
The financial statements are also prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern in the Report of the Directors on page 24 form part of the financial statements.
ii Changes to presentation Following the publication of the new SORP and technical guidance by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in Tech 01 08, capital reserves are now shown in aggregate in the balance sheet and the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
This has no effect on either the net assets or earnings of the Company.
b Foreign currency i Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency and the currency in which the Companys share capital and expenses, as well as its assets and liabilities, are denominated.
ii Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currency, whether of a revenue or capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital reserve or to the revenue account, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
All gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
c Financial instruments i Recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities The Company recognises financial assets and financial liabilities when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company will offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
ii Derecognition of financial assets The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or it transfers the right to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in the transferred financial asset that is created or retained by the Company is recognised as an asset.
iii Derecognition of financial liabilities The Company derecognises financial liabilities when its obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired.
iv Trade date accounting Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the assets.
v Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities The Company classifies all financial assets as fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities.
