48 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 16.
Notes to the cash flow statement continued c Analysis of net debt DEBENTURE STOCK 1 APRIL CASH FLOW EXCHANGE NON-CASH 31 MARCH 2008 MOVEMENTS MOVEMENT 2009 000 000 000 000 000 Bank overdraft 53,916 25,112 7,465 36,269 Debt due after five years debenture 29,668 36 29,704 Net debt 83,584 25,112 7,465 36 65,973 17.
Contingencies, guarantees and financial commitments The Board expects to receive an additional refund of VAT on management fees and interest thereon.
However, as the amounts involved are not material and the timing of receipt is uncertain, no provision has been made in these accounts.
There were no other contingencies, guarantees or financial commitments of the Company at the year end 2008: Nil.
Related party transactions Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited, acts as Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator to the Company.
Details of IAMLs services and fees are disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
Full details of Directors interests are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 23.
There are no other related party transactions.
Financial instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio as shown on pages 9 and 10, cash, borrowings including overdraft and debenture, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
Risk management policies and procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to meet its investment objective and policies.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
Those related to financial instruments include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The main risk that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments is market risk this risk is reviewed in detail below.
Since the Company invests in quoted investments traded on recognised stock exchanges, liquidity risk and credit risk are thereby significantly mitigated.
Liquidity risk is minimised as the majority of the Companys investments comprise a diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
In addition, the 30 million debenture and 100 million bank overdraft facility provide for additional funding flexibility.
Credit risk encompasses the failure by counterparties to deliver securities which the Company has paid for, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
This risk is minimised by using only approved counterparties.
