SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc commercial properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
The Trust is geared by bank debt.
Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment, primarily, in the UK equity market.
It is City Merchants High Yield Trust plc intended that the Company will provide shareholders with real Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed dividend growth over the medium-term by investing mainly in income and or equity instruments combined with a degree of above-average yield equities.
However, investments are also made security.
in companies with lower initial yields which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
The Trust is geared by a Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited debenture stock and bank debt.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking to Keystone Investment Trust plc maximise total return through investing, primarily, in a diversified Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital mainly portfolio of high yielding corporate and government bonds.
The Trust is geared by way of debenture stocks.
Company seeks to balance the attraction of high yield securities Invesco Income Growth Trust plc with the need for protection of capital and to manage volatility.
The Trust is highly geared.
Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in capital and real, long-term growth in dividends from an above-average Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equity-related A split-capital investment trust with ordinary income shares, zero securities.
Seeks to achieve a total return in excess of the FTSE Alldividend preference shares and units a combination of the two.
Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the zero dividend Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share preference shares and to maximise the capital and income returns Portfolio of the ordinary income shares by investing primarily in equities but also debt securities which are considered to offer recovery Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with real prospects.
Returns to ordinary income shareholders are geared by growth in dividends from investment, primarily, in the UK equity the prior charge of the zero shares.
The Trust has an initial life market.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Share Portfolio Invests in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
1. an increase in the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share ndex: and Invesco Property Income Trust Limited The Company is a closed-ended investment company with limited 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to provide ordinary inflation.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the The portfolio is geared by way of two debenture stocks.
prospect of income and capital growth from investing in Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco English and International Trust plc Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Invests mainly in smaller companies quoted on the main London Stock Exchange and in stocks quoted on the Alternative Investment Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys Market AIM.
It pursues a relatively risk-averse stock selection shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of small to strategy holding a well-diversified portfolio and seeks to invest in medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Trust may gear by bank companies offering particular value.
The Trust has adopted a flexible debt.
gearing policy and a quarterly redemption creation mechanism.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Share Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Company aims to Aims to produce long-term capital growth from a sensibly diversified achieve growth in its net asset value in excess of the Morgan Stanley portfolio of international equities including the UK.
The portfolio Capital International All Country Asia Pacific ex Japan Index, comprises the best ideas of a number of Invesco Perpetuals measured in sterling.
Investing for Absolute Returns Invesco Perpetual European Absolute Return Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Aims to achieve absolute total returns through investment principally in equity, fixed interest and cash securities within Aims to achieve absolute return of 3-month sterling LIBOR plus continental Europe ex.
Seeks to achieve returns in excess of 5% per annum over a rolling 5-year period, coupled with low sterling LIBOR.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the UK Equity Share Portfolio freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from capital Global Equity Share Portfolio gains tax liability.
Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Other Invesco Perpetual AiM VCT plc launch primarily through the realisation of capital gains from a portfolio of investments in AIM Qualifying Companies while The Company was launched in August 2004.
Its objective is to maintaining the capital value of shares.
provide a tax-free dividend return to shareholders invested at Please contact our Customer Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
