THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt 52 as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was affected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 8 July 2009 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To re-elect Bill Alexander a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Martyn Arbib a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Antony Hardy a Director of the Company.
To elect Bob Yerbury a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To re-appoint the Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Biographies of Directors seeking election or re-election are shown on page 11 of the Annual Financial Report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 8 and 11 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 9, 10, and 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 8.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,946,820, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 9 set out above or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 90 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,084,046. and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV or V of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares : PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 31,239,852: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2009 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 12 months from the passing of this resolution unless the authority is renewed at any other general meeting prior to such time: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
THAT: any shares purchased in accordance with resolution 10, may, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 162D of the Companies Act 1985 as treasury shares.
The holding of treasury shares will be restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any reissue of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
THAT: the period of notice required for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 clear days notice.
Explanatory Notes to Resolution 12 Notice of period for general meetings This resolution will be decided on a poll unless passed earlier on a show of hands without any vote being cast against.
This resolution is required in contemplation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive.
It is expected that when this directive is brought into force, it will increase the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholder resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days must have been passed at the immediately preceding AGM.
54 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Since at the time of printing this notice, it is not known whether any alleviating transitional provisions will be included in the legislation implementing the EU Shareholder Rights Directive, it is prudent to include this resolution in this years AGM.
Dated this 8 June 2009 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: via the Capita Registrars website at www.
com in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars Proxies, PO Box 25, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this Notice.
Appointment of a proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged via www.
com or at the office of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars Proxies, PO Box 25, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR, by not later than 11.30 a. m. on 6 July 2009.
A person entered on the Register of Members at close of business on 6 July 2009 a member is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 5.
There are no service contracts between the Directors and the Company.
The Register of Directors interests, the Terms of Reference of the Audit, Management Engagement and Nomination Committees and the Letters of Appointment for Directors will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
A copy of the current Articles of Association and a draft of the proposed Articles are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any business day excluding public holidays until the close of the AGM and will also be available at the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior and during the Meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the AGM, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives http: www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 8 June 2009 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 208,404,620 ordinary shares of 10p each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 208,404,620.
