40 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied during the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of preparation i Accounting Standards applied The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts, issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009.
The financial statements are also prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern in the Report of the Directors on page 24 form part of the financial statements.
ii Changes to presentation Following the publication of the new SORP and technical guidance by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in Tech 01 08, capital reserves are now shown in aggregate in the balance sheet and the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
This has no effect on either the net assets or earnings of the Company.
b Foreign currency i Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency and the currency in which the Companys share capital and expenses, as well as its assets and liabilities, are denominated.
ii Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currency, whether of a revenue or capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital reserve or to the revenue account, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
All gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
c Financial instruments i Recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities The Company recognises financial assets and financial liabilities when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company will offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
ii Derecognition of financial assets The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or it transfers the right to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in the transferred financial asset that is created or retained by the Company is recognised as an asset.
iii Derecognition of financial liabilities The Company derecognises financial liabilities when its obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired.
iv Trade date accounting Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the assets.
v Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities The Company classifies all financial assets as fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 41 The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial liability was acquired.
The classification of financial instruments is determined on initial recognition.
1 Fair value through profit or loss A financial asset or financial liability is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivative financial instruments are also included in this category.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at fair value, which for listed investments is their bid value.
2 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
vi Unlisted illiquid investments Where there is no active market, unlisted illiquid investments are valued at valuations determined by the Directors using an approximate valuation technique, such as earnings multiples, recent arms length market transactions and net assets.
d Hedging and derivatives Forward currency contracts entered into for hedging purposes are valued at the appropriate forward exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits or losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
Futures contracts may be entered into for hedging purposes and any profits and losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
Derivative instruments are valued at fair value in the balance sheet.
Derivative instruments may be capital or revenue in nature and, accordingly, changes in their fair value are recognised in revenue or capital in the income statement as appropriate.
e Income Interest income arising from fixed income securities and cash is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Dividend income arises from equity investments held and is recognised on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
Deposit interest and underwriting commission receivable are taken into account on an accrual basis.
f Expenses and finance costs Expenses are recognised on an accruals basis and finance costs are recognised using the effective interest method in the income statement.
The investment management fee and finance costs are allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue.
This is in accordance with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the portfolio.
The performance fee is allocated wholly to capital as it arises from capital returns on the portfolio.
Expenses in connection with transaction costs are recognised in capital in the income statement.
All other expenses are allocated to revenue in the income statement.
g Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised where, in the opinion of the directors, it is more likely than not that these amounts will be realised in future periods.
