GROSVENOR A302 E V A R. R PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Location of AGM Investment Trust plc are quoted on the UK To be held at The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Stockmarket.
Purchases and sales can be Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 8 July 2009 at arranged in a number of different ways.
Here are some examples: 12.00 noon.
The AGM will be followed by light refreshments.
Stockbroker, Bank, Share Shop, On-line Dealing and on-line or telephone dealing at Capita Registrars NAV Publication The NAV is calculated by the Manager on a daily GREEN PARK basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange on the next business day.
It is published daily in the newspapers detailed below under Share Price Listings.
BUCKINGHAM PALACE GDNS Share Price Listings The price of your shares can be found in the following places: Financial Times Investment Companies The Times Investment Companies Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts Subscription Shares Reuters Base cost for the calculation of taxation on ordinary shares PLI.
L capital gains Bloomberg Trading in the subscription shares issued by the ordinary shares PLI:LN Company to qualifying shareholders commenced subscription shares PLIS:LN at 8.00 a. m. on 31 May 2005.
Further to the Internet addresses details outlined in the prospectus, for the purposes Trust net www.
com of UK taxation, the issue of subscription shares is Interactive Investor www.
co. uk treated as a reorganisation of the Companys share Association of www.
Whereas such reorganisations do not Investment trigger a chargeable disposal for the purposes of Companies capital gains, they do require shareholders to reallocate the base costs of their ordinary shares Company Website between ordinary shares and subscription shares The Companys website can be located at acquired under the bonus issue.
At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the middle market prices of the Companys ordinary Financial Calendar shares and subscription shares were as follows: In addition, the Company publishes information Ordinary Shares 190.25p according to the following calendar: Subscription Shares 34.50p Announcements Annual Financial Report June Accordingly, an individual investor who on Half-yearly Financial Report November 27 May 2005 held ten ordinary shares or a Interim Management Statements July and multiple thereof would have received a bonus October issue of one subscription share or the relevant Annual General Meeting July multiple thereof and would apportion the base cost of such holding 98.22% to the ten ordinary Year End 31 March shares and 1.78% to the subscription shares.
Ordinary Share Dividends If you need tax advice, you should contact a Each year, dividends are usually paid in: 2nd Interim payable June qualified tax professional.
1st Interim payable December Ordinary share dividends for 2009: 2nd interim payable 9 July 1st interim payable on or around 29 December O C K P KNIGHTSBRIDGE E G D Y H L W E L L DUKE OF I N E G T B A4 PICCADILLY S E R C R O O N E N V S O P R L G
