56 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
The benchmark used in these accounts is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount The amount by which the mid-market share price of an investment trust is lower than the diluted net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Gearing The term applied to the effect of borrowings and prior charge share capital on assets that will increase the return on investment when the value of the Companys investments is rising but reduce the return when values are declining.
A gearing level of 100 or 0% indicates there is no gearing.
Actual Gearing Reflects the amount of loans already arranged and in use by the Company.
This is the gearing figure published by the Association of Investment Companies.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of Shareholders funds and all drawndown loans by Shareholders funds.
Asset Gearing Reflects the amount of loans actively invested in assets and not held in cash.
It is calculated by dividing fixed asset investments by Shareholders funds.
Market Capitalisation Is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price of an ordinary share by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Basic Net Asset Value Also described as Shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted net asset value is the net asset value per share that would arise if the subscription shares were converted.
It is calculated by dividing the net asset value, by the number of shares that would be in issue if all the subscriptions shares were converted to ordinary shares.
Where the diluted net asset value per ordinary share is greater than the basic net asset per ordinary share, there is no dilutive effect.
Shareholders Funds Also called equity Shareholders funds.
The amount due to the ordinary shareholders.
Total Net Assets Total assets less current liabilities.
Total Expense Ratio Total expenses incurred excluding finance costs and VAT recoverable on management fees, including those charged to capital, divided by average Shareholders funds during the year.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between companies with different dividend policies.
Any dividends after tax received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares ie share price total return or in the Companys assets ie NAV total return.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 Credit ratings The definitions for the credit ratings shown in the financial statements are as follows: Moodys Ratings Investment grade Aaa: judged to be of the highest quality, with minimal credit risk.
Aa1, Aa2, Aa3: judged to be of high quality and are subject to very low credit risk.
A1, A2, A3: considered upper-medium grade and are subject to low credit risk.
Baa1, Baa2, Baa3: subject to moderate credit risk.
They are considered medium-grade and as such may possess certain speculative characteristics.
Speculative grade Non-investment grade Ba1, Ba2, Ba3: judged to have speculative elements and are subject to substantial credit risk.
B1, B2, B3: considered speculative and are subject to high credit risk.
Caa1, Caa2, Caa3: judged to be of poor standing and are subject to very high credit risk.
Ca: highly speculative and are likely in, or very near, default, with some prospect of recovery of principal and interest.
C: lowest rated class of bonds and are typically in default, with little prospect for recovery of principal or interest.
Standard & Poor Ratings Investment Grade AAA: the best quality borrowers, reliable and stable many of them governments.
AA: quality borrowers, a bit higher risk than AAA.
A: economic situation can affect finance.
BBB: medium class borrowers, which are satisfactory at the moment.
Non-Investment Grade BB: more prone to changes in the economy.
CCC: currently vulnerable and dependent on favourable economic conditions to meet commitments.
CC: highly vulnerable, very speculative.
C: highly vulnerable, perhaps in bankruptcy or in arrears but still continuing to pay out on obligations.
R: under regulatory supervision due to the companys financial situation.
SD: has selectively defaulted on some obligations.
D: has defaulted on obligations and S&P believes that the company will generally default on most or all obligations.
58 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Asset Management Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with funds under management of $367 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Funds under Management as at 30 April 2009
