Notes: 1 rebased to 100 at 30 April 1999 2 The net asset value per share growth is based on undiluted NAV per share from 1999 to 2005 and following the exercise of warrants on 30 September 2005 on diluted NAV per share for 2006 onwards.
From 2005 onwards the total net assets figures have been calculated in accordance with IFRS, with investments valued at bid price.
Prior to 2005 investments were valued at mid price.
Sources: HSBC Securities Services and Polar Capital LLP.
WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk 64 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC investing MARKET PURCHASES Alternatively UK residents can invest through the Alliance Trust.
The shares of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc are listed and traded They provide and administer a range of self-select investment on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may purchase shares plans, including tax-advantaged ISAs and SIPPs self-invested through their stockbroker, bank or other financial intermediary.
personal pensions and also Investment Plans and First Steps, an investment plan for children.
SHARE DEALING SERVICES For more information, please contact Alliance Trust on The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, a telephone and 08000 326 323, or visit www.
co. uk internet share sale service offered by Equiniti formerly Lloyds TSB Please remember that any investment in the shares of Polar Capital Registrars to be made available.
Technology Trust either directly or through a savings scheme or ISA For telephone sales call 0871 384 2020 between 8.30am and carries the risk that the value of your investment and any income 4.30pm for dealing and up to 6.00pm for enquiries, Monday to from them may go down as well as up due to the fluctuations of Friday.
For internet sales log on to www.
co. uk dealing the share price, the market and interest rates.
This risk may result in Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT an investor not getting back their original amount invested.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
performance is not a guide to future performance.
Polar Capital Technology Trust is allowed to borrow against its SAVINGS SCHEME & ISA assets and this may increase losses triggered by a falling market, The shares of the Company may also be purchased through however the Company may increase or decrease its borrowing arrangements offered by BNP Paribas Fund Services and Alliance levels to suit market conditions.
The Companys shares may reflect Trust Savings.
BNP Fund Services UK Limited BNP Paribas operates the greater volatility of technology shares which themselves are and administers both a share savings scheme and an ISA scheme subject to the risks of developing technologies and other the Schemes dedicated to the shares of the Company.
Many technology companies are smaller made these Schemes available at the request of the Company and companies and are therefore also subject to the risks attendant on they have operated since 2001.
Both the share savings scheme and investing in smaller companies.
It is therefore important that you the ISA are subject to the key features document which should be read the key features documents and understand the risks read before entering into the investment.
These Schemes are associated with investing in the shares of the Company.
subject to commission, stamp duty and administration charges which are detailed in the key features document.
Information and If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any the key feature document are available from: investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited Polar Capital Block C, Western House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, PE2 6BP Telephone 0845 358 1109 or 00 44 1733 285784 if phoning from overseas.
01733 285822 This document is printed on Revive 75:25, a paper containing 75% recovered fibre and 25% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
com Registered Office: 4 Matthew Parker Street London SW1H 9NP Tel: 020 7227 2700 Fax: 020 7227 2799 www.
co. uk Registrar: Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
