Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies A1: Nature of operations Prudential plc the Company together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Prudential is an international financial services group with its principal operations in the UK, the US and Asia.
The Group operates in the UK through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC, Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL and M&G Investment Management Limited.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson.
The Group also has operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and other Asian countries.
Prudential offers a wide range of retail financial products and services and asset management services throughout these territories.
The retail financial products and services principally include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective investment schemes.
Long-term business products written in the UK and Asia are principally with-profits deposit administration, other conventional and unitised with-profits policies and non-participating pension annuities in the course of payment.
Long-term business also includes linked business written in the UK and Asia.
The principal products written by Jackson are interest-sensitive deferred annuities and whole-life policies, variable annuities, guaranteed investment contracts, fixed index deferred annuities and term life insurance.
Prudential plc is a public limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered office is: Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number: 1397169 A2: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
These are presented on pages 292 to 301.
The Group has applied all IFRS standards and interpretations adopted by the EU that are effective for financial years commencing on or before 1 January 2009.
Further details on the new accounting pronouncements are provided in note A5.
A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements a Critical accounting policies Prudentials discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudentials consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the EU.
Were the Group to apply IFRS as published by the IASB, as opposed to EU-adopted IFRS, no additional measurement adjustments or disclosures would be required.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning, the fair value of assets and the declaration of bonus rates.
Prudential bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those described below.
The critical accounting policies in respect of the items discussed below are critical for the Groups results insofar as they relate to the Groups shareholder-financed business.
In particular this applies for Jackson which is the largest shareholder-backed business in the Group.
The policies are not critical in respect of the Groups with-profits business.
This distinction reflects the basis of recognition of profit and accounting treatment of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
Additional explanation is provided later in this note and cross-referenced notes as to why the distinction between with-profits business and shareholder-backed business is relevant.
The items discussed below and in cross-referenced notes explain the effect of changes in estimates and the effect of reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying these estimates as of the latest statement of financial position date so as to provide analysis that recognises the different accounting effects on profit and loss or equity.
In order to provide relevant analysis that is appropriate to the circumstances applicable to the Groups businesses, the explanations refer to types of business, fund structure, the relationship between asset and policyholder liability measurement, and the differences in the method of accounting permitted under IFRS 4 for accounting for insurance contract assets, policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the Groups with-profits funds.
Insurance contract accounting With the exception of certain contracts described in note D1, the contracts issued by the Groups life assurance business are classified as insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
As permitted by IFRS 4, assets and liabilities of these contracts are accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
Accordingly, except as described below, the modified statutory basis MSB of reporting as set out in the revised Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI has been applied.
126 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A In 2005 the Group chose to improve its IFRS accounting for UK regulated with-profits funds by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
Under this standard, the main accounting changes that were required for UK with-profits funds were: derecognition of deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax: and replacement of MSB liabilities with adjusted realistic basis liabilities.
The results included in the financial statements for 2009 and 2008 reflect this basis.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
The Group has opted to account for unallocated surplus wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
This treatment reflects the fact that shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution.
Shareholder profits on with-profits business reflect one-ninth of the cost of declared bonus.
For Jackson, applying the MSB as applicable to overseas operations which permits the application of local GAAP in some circumstances, the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts are accounted for under insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
For the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of Asian operations, the local GAAP is applied with adjustments, where necessary, to comply with UK GAAP.
For the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, countries where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For participating business the liabilities include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that, where appropriate, and in particular for Vietnam, have yet to be declared as bonuses.
The usage of these bases of accounting has varying effects on the way in which product options and guarantees are measured.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, options and guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The basis is described in note D2 f ii.
For other operations a market consistent basis is not applied under the accounting basis described in note A4.
Details of the guarantees, basis of setting assumptions, and sensitivity to altered assumptions are described in notes D3 and D4.
Valuation and accounting presentation of fair value movements of derivatives and debt securities of Jackson Under IAS 39, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless net investment hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
With the exception of value movements on derivatives held for variable annuity and other equity related hedging activities, the value movements on derivatives held by Jackson are separately identified within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns identified as part of the Groups segment results described below and in note B1.
Derivative value movements in respect of equity risk within variable annuity business and other equity related hedging activities are included within the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
For derivative instruments of Jackson, the Group has considered whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: IAS 39 hedging criteria have been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: the high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions: the difficulties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book: the complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and finally whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and constraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
Taking account of these considerations the Group has decided that, except for certain minor categories of derivatives, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of this decision the total income statement results are more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are reflected within it.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-to-maturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements, unless impaired, being recorded as movements within other comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement.
Presentation of results before tax The total tax charge for the Group reflects tax that in addition to relating to shareholders profits is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note F5.
However, pre-tax profits are determined after transfers to or from unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
These transfers are in turn determined after taking account of tax borne by with-profits funds.
Consequently reported profit before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders.
In order to provide a measure of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that distinguishes between policyholder and shareholder components.
127 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Segmental analysis of results and earnings attributable to shareholders The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as the segmental measure of its results.
The basis of calculation is disclosed in note A4 d. For shareholder-backed business, with the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and assets classified as loans and receivables, all financial investments and investment property are designated as assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-profits funds, do not affect directly reported shareholder results.
This is because i the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds is accounted for as liabilities and ii excess or deficits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
However, for shareholder-backed businesses the short-term fluctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results to provide information on results before and after short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
b Critical accounting estimates and judgements Investments Determining the fair value of financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These can include financial investments which are not quoted on active markets and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions e. g. market illiquidity.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data to account for financial investments at fair value.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third-parties, such as brokers or pricing services or by using internally developed pricing models.
Priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources, when available but overall, the source of pricing and or the valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these financial investments.
The financial investments measured at fair value are classified into the following three level hierarchy on the basis of the lowest level of inputs that is significant to the fair value measurement of the financial investment concerned: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: Significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
At 31 December 2009, 5,557 million of the financial investments net of derivative liabilities valued at fair value were classified as level 3.
Of these 1,684 million are held to back shareholder non-linked business and so changes to these valuations will directly impact shareholders equity.
Further details of the classification of financial instruments are given in note G1.
Determining impairments relating to financial assets Available-for-sale securities Financial investments carried on an available-for-sale basis are represented by Jacksons debt securities portfolio.
The consideration of evidence of impairment requires managements judgement.
In making this determination the factors considered include, for example, Whether the decline of the financial investments fair value is substantial.
A substantial decline in fair value might be indicative of a credit loss event that would lead to a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows.
The impact of the duration of the security on the calculation of the revised estimated cash flows.
The duration of a security for maturity helps to inform whether assessments of estimated future cash flows that are higher than market value are reasonable.
The duration and extent to which the amortised cost exceeds fair value.
This factor provides an indication of how the contractual cash flows and effective interest rate of a financial asset compares with the implicit market estimate of cash flows and the risk attaching to a fair value measurement.
The length of time for which that level of difference has been in place may also provide further evidence as to whether the market assessment implies an impairment loss has arisen.
The financial condition and prospects of the issuer or other observable conditions that indicate the investment may be impaired.
If a loss event that will have a detrimental effect on cash flows is identified an impairment loss in the income statement is recognised.
The loss recognised is determined as the difference between the book cost and the fair value of the relevant impaired securities.
This loss comprises the effect of the expected loss of contractual cashflows and any additional market-price-driven temporary reductions in values.
128 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A For Jacksons residential mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, all of which are classified as available-for-sale, the model used to analyse cash flows, begins with the current delinquency experience of the underlying collateral pool for the structure, by applying assumptions about how much of the currently delinquent loans will eventually default, and multiplying this by an assumed loss severity.
Additional factors are applied to anticipate ageing effect.
After applying a cash flow simulation an indication is obtained as to whether or not the security has suffered, or is anticipated to suffer, contractual principal or interest payment shortfall.
If a shortfall applies an impairment charge is recorded.
The difference between the fair value and book cost for unimpaired securities accounted for as available-for-sale, falls to be accounted for as unrealised gains or losses, with the movements in the accounting period being accounted for in other comprehensive income.
The Groups review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-specific developments and future cash flows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash flow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
The preceding note in this section provides explanation on how fair value is determined when the markets for the financial investments are not active.
Further, additional details on the impairments of the available-for-sale securities of Jackson are described in notes D3 and G5.
Assets held at amortised cost Financial assets classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
In estimating future cash flows, the Group looks at the expected cash flows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include the risk that market results may differ from expectations: facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions: or the Group may later decide to sell the asset as a result of changed circumstances.
Insurance contracts Product classification IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
Insurance risk is a pre-existing risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the contract holder to the contract issuer.
If significant insurance risk is transferred by the contract then it is classified as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk but not significant insurance risk are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both insurance and investment, contain discretionary participating features representing the contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits: a that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contract benefits: b whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer: and c that are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
Accordingly, insurers must perform a product classification exercise across their portfolio of contracts issued to determine the allocation to these various categories.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
Except for UK regulated with-profits funds, as described subsequently, this basis has been applied by the Group.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract.
Valuation assumptions i Contracts of with-profits funds The Groups insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features are primarily with-profits and other protection type policies.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, the contract liabilities are valued by reference to the UK Financial Services Authoritys FSA realistic basis.
In aggregate, this basis has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
The basis of determining liabilities for the Groups with-profits business has little or no effect on the results attributable to shareholders.
This is because movements on liabilities of the with-profits funds are absorbed by the unallocated surplus.
Except through indirect effects, or in remote circumstances as described below, changes to liability assumptions are therefore reflected in the carrying value of the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability rather than shareholders equity.
A detailed explanation of the basis of liability measurement is contained in note D2 f ii.
The Groups other with-profits contracts are written in with-profits funds that operate in some of the Groups Asian operations.
The liabilities for these contracts and those of Prudential Annuities Limited, which is a subsidiary company of the PAC with-profits funds, are determined differently.
For these contracts the liabilities are estimated using actuarial methods based on assumptions relating to premiums, interest rates, investment returns, expenses, mortality and surrenders.
The assumptions to which the estimation of these reserves is particularly sensitive are: the interest rate used to discount the provision and the assumed future mortality experience of policyholders.
129 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued For liabilities determined using the basis described above for UK regulated with-profits funds, and the other liabilities described in the preceding paragraph, changes in estimates arising from the likely range of possible changes in underlying key assumptions have no direct impact on the reported profit.
This lack of sensitivity reflects the with-profits fund structure, basis of distribution, and the application of previous GAAP to the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as permitted by IFRS 4.
Changes in liabilities of these contracts that are caused by altered estimates are absorbed by the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds with no direct effect on shareholders equity.
The Companys obligations and more detail on such circumstances are described in note H14.
ii Other contracts Contracts, other than those of with-profits funds, are written in shareholder-backed operations of the Group.
The significant shareholder-backed product groupings and the factors that may significantly affect IFRS results due to experience against assumptions or changes of assumptions vary significantly between business units.
For some types of business the effect of changes in assumptions may be significant, whilst for others, due to the nature of the product, assumption setting may be of less significance.
The nature of the products and the significance of assumptions are discussed in notes D2, D3 and D4.
From the perspective of shareholder results the key sensitivity relates to the assumption for allowance for credit risk for UK annuity business.
Prior to its disposal of the Taiwan agency business in the first half of 2009, the Groups financial results were also sensitive to the assumed future investment returns for that business.
Jackson Jackson offers individual fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, immediate annuities, variable annuities, individual and variable life insurance and institutional products.
With the exception of institutional products and an incidental amount of business for annuity certain contracts, which are accounted for as investment contracts under IAS 39, all of Jacksons contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 as insurance contracts by applying US GAAP, the previous GAAP used before IFRS adoption.
Under US GAAP the requirements of SFAS 60 Accounting and Reporting for Insurance Enterprises and SFAS 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for certain LongDuration Contracts and for Realised Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments apply to these contracts.
The accounting requirements under these standards and the effect of changes in valuation assumptions are considered below for fixed annuity, variable annuity and traditional life insurance contracts.
Fixed annuity contracts, which are investment contracts under US GAAP terminology, are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts, namely deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any premium deficiency, i. e. any probable future loss on the contract.
These types of contracts contain considerable interest rate guarantee features.
Notwithstanding the accompanying market risk exposure, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of Jacksons fixed annuity products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
Variable annuity contracts written by Jackson may provide for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal benefit features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate assumptions.
For variable annuity business the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for 2009 and 2008 was 8.4 per cent per annum gross of fund management fees determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Under the mean reversion methodology, projected returns over the next five years are flexed subject to capping so that, combined with the actual rates of return for the current and the previous two years the 8.4 per cent rate is maintained.
The projected rates of return are capped at no more than 15 per cent for each of the next five years.
Further details are explained in note D3 h. These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs as described below and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and the guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
This reflects the principally spread and fee-based nature of Jacksons business.
Asian operations The insurance products written in the Groups Asian operations principally cover with-profits business, unit-linked business, and other non-participating business.
The results of with-profits business are relatively insensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of policyholder liabilities.
As for the UK business, this feature arises because unallocated surplus is accounted for by the Group as a liability.
The results of Asian unit-linked business are also relatively insensitive to changes in estimates or assumptions.
Prior to its disposal in the first half of 2009, the principal non-participating business in the Groups Asian operations, for which changes in estimates and assumptions was important from year to year, was the traditional whole-life business written in Taiwan.
Premium rates were set to give a guaranteed minimum sum assured on death and a guaranteed surrender value on early surrender based on prevailing interest rates at the time of policy issue.
Premium rates also included an allowance for mortality and expenses.
This business was therefore especially sensitive to falling interest rates.
This exposure has been removed following the disposal of the Taiwan agency business.
The remaining non-participating business in Asia remains sensitive to interest rates but this sensitivity is of a much lower order.
Further details are provided in D4 i.
130 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A Deferred acquisition costs Significant costs are incurred in connection with acquiring new insurance business.
Except for acquisition costs of with-profits contracts of the UK regulated with-profits funds, which are accounted for under the realistic FSA regime as described in note A4, these costs, which vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of new business, are capitalised and amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
The recoverability of the asset is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value of the deferred acquisition cost asset will be necessary.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for shareholder-financed long-term business of Jackson and Asian operations.
The majority of the UK shareholder-backed business is for individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
Jackson For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on the annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of Jacksons actual industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns as described above.
The level of acquisition costs carried in the statement of financial position is also sensitive to unrealised valuation movements on debt securities held to back the liabilities and solvency capital.
Further details are explained in notes D3 h and H1.
Asian operations In 2008, a number of changes were made to the basis of estimating the level of deferred acquisition costs, as described in note D4 h c. Pensions The Group applies the requirements of IAS 19, Employee benefits and associated interpretations including IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, to its defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal deferred benefit pension scheme is the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
For PSPS the terms of the trust deed restrict shareholders access to any underlying surplus.
Accordingly, applying the interpretation of IFRIC 14, any underlying IAS 19 basis surplus is not recognised for IFRS reporting.
The financial position for PSPS recorded in the IFRS financial statements reflects the higher of any underlying IAS 19 deficit and any obligation for deficit funding.
The economic participation in the surplus or deficits attaching to the PSPS and the smaller Scottish Amicable Pensions Scheme SAPS are shared between the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF and shareholder operations.
The economic interest reflects the source of contributions over the scheme life, which in turn reflects the activity of the members during their employment.
In the case of PSPS, movements in the apportionment of the financial position for PSPS between the WPSF and shareholders funds in 2009 reflect the 70 30 ratio applied to the base deficit position as at 31 December 2005 but with service cost and contributions for ongoing service apportioned by reference to the cost allocation for activity of current employees.
For SAPS the ratio is estimated to be 50 50 between the WPSF and shareholders funds.
Due to the inclusion of actuarial gains and losses in the income statement rather than being recognised in other comprehensive income, the results of the Group are affected by changes in interest rates for corporate bonds that affect the rate applied to discount projected pension payments, changes in mortality assumptions and changes in inflation assumptions.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the losses can be relieved.
The taxation regimes applicable across the Group apply separate rules to trading and capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a capital or trading nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The judgements made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving at deferred tax balances in the financial statements are discussed in note H4.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment testing requires the exercise of judgement by management as to prospective future cash flows.
Further information is disclosed in note H1.
131 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A4: Significant accounting policies a Financial instruments other than financial instruments classified as long-term business contracts Investment classification Under IAS 39, subject to specific criteria, financial instruments should be accounted for under one of the following categories: financial investments at fair value through profit and loss, financial investments held on an available-for-sale basis, financial investments held-tomaturity or loans and receivables.
Upon initial recognition, financial investments are measured at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
These IAS 39 classifications have been changed by IFRS 9 Financial Investments: Classification and Measurement which is not required to be adopted until 2013 and is still subject to EU endorsement.
This standard has not been adopted by the Group in 2009.
The Group holds financial investments on the following bases: i Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through profit and loss on inception and derivatives that are held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income.
ii Financial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
These investments are carried at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Except for foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities, not in functional currency, which are included in the income statement, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income i. e. outside of the income statement.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement as realised gains or losses.
iii Loans and receivables this comprises non-quoted investments that have fixed or determinable payments and are not designated as fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
These investments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
As permitted under IAS 39 the Group has designated certain financial assets as fair value through profit and loss as these assets are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These assets represent all of the Groups financial assets other than loans and receivables and debt securities held by Jackson.
Debt securities held by Jackson are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The use of the fair value option is consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategies.
The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets.
Use of fair values The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash flow technique.
Additional details are provided in note G1.
Impairments The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets not held at fair value through profit and loss is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that a loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group.
For assets designated as available-for-sale, the initial impairment is the cumulative loss which is removed from the available-for-sale reserve within equity and recognised in the income statement.
Any subsequent impairment loss is measured as the cumulative loss, less any impairment loss previously recognised.
For loans and receivables carried at amortised cost, the impairment amount is the difference between carrying value and the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This includes fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are met then the following accounting treatments are applied from the date at which the designation is made and the accompanying requisite documentation is in place: i Hedges of net investments in foreign operations the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income i. e. outside of the income statement.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised directly in other comprehensive income, is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
132 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A ii Fair value hedges movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement.
iii Cash flow hedges the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income i. e. outside of the income statement.
Movements in fair value relating to the ineffective portion are booked in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are recorded in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
All derivatives that do not meet the relevant hedging criteria are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
The primary areas of the Groups continuing operations where derivative instruments are held are the UK with-profits funds and annuity business, and Jackson.
For the Groups continuing operations, hedge accounting under IAS 39 is not usually applied.
The exceptions, where hedge accounting has been applied in 2009 and 2008, are summarised in note G3.
For UK with-profits funds the derivative programme is undertaken as part of the efficient management of the portfolio as a whole.
As noted in section D2 value movements on the with-profits funds investments are reflected in changes in asset-share liabilities to policyholders or the liability for unallocated surplus.
Shareholders profit and equity are not affected directly by value movements on the derivatives held.
For UK annuity business the derivatives are held to contribute to the matching as far as practical, of asset returns and duration with those of liabilities to policyholders.
The carrying value of these liabilities is sensitive to the return on the matching financial assets including derivatives held.
Except for the extent of minor mismatching, value movements on derivatives held for this purpose do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
For Jackson an extensive derivative programme is maintained.
Value movements on the derivatives held can be very significant in their effect on shareholder results.
The Group has chosen generally not to seek to construct the Jackson derivative programme so as to facilitate hedge accounting where theoretically possible, under IAS 39.
Further details on this aspect of the Groups financial reporting are described in note A3.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are present in host contracts issued by various Group companies, in particular for Jackson.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments and insurance contracts to create hybrid instruments.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
In addition, the Group applies the requirement of IFRS 4 to not separate and fair value surrender options embedded in host contracts and with-profits investment contracts whose strike price is either a fixed amount or a fixed amount plus interest.
Further details on the valuation basis for embedded derivatives attaching to Jacksons life assurance contracts are provided in note D3 f. Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third-parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group also derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire.
Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group will derecognise the financial asset where it is deemed that the Group has not retained control of the financial asset.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly derecognised providing all of the following conditions are met: the Group has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects the equivalent amounts from the original asset: the Group is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset: and the Group has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity or for hybrid debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
133 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss Consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategy and the nature of the products concerned, the Group has designated under IAS 39 classification certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss as these instruments are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
b Long-term business contracts Income statement treatment Premiums and claims Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-profits policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised as revenue when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-profits and other investment type policies are recognised as revenue when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude any taxes or duties assessed based on premiums.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-profits policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded as charges on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when each annuity instalment becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are charged to the income statement when paid and death claims are recorded when notified.
For investment contracts which do not contain discretionary participating features, the accounting is carried out in accordance with IAS 39 to reflect the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reflected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the statement of financial position as movements in the financial liability balance.
Acquisition costs With the exception of costs incurred in respect of with-profits contracts valued on a realistic basis, costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising costs and certain other costs associated with policy issuance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are specifically identified and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs DAC, which are included as an asset in the statement of financial position.
The DAC asset in respect of insurance contracts is amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies, to the extent that the amounts are recoverable out of the margins.
Recoverability of the unamortised DAC asset is assessed at the time of policy issue and reviewed if profit margins have declined.
Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 which also offers investment management services, require the application of IAS 18 for the revenue attached to these services.
The Groups investment contracts primarily comprise certain unit-linked savings contracts in the UK and Asia and contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms in the US such as guaranteed investment contracts and annuity-certains all of which offer an investment service.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
UK regulated with-profits funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies with discretionary participating features under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Such policies are called with-profits policies.
Prudential maintains with-profits funds within the Groups long-term business funds, which segregate the assets and liabilities and accumulate the returns related to that with-profits business.
The amounts accumulated in these with-profits funds are available to provide for future policyholder benefit provisions and for bonuses to be distributed to with-profits policyholders.
The bonuses, both annual and final, reflect the right of the with-profits policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-profits funds.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the board of directors.
The shareholders share currently represents one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for with-profits policies.
Annual bonuses are declared and credited each year to with-profits policies.
The annual bonuses increase policy benefits and, once credited, become guaranteed.
Annual bonuses are charged to the profit and loss account in the year declared.
Final bonuses are declared each year and accrued for all policies scheduled to mature and for death benefits expected to be paid during the next financial year.
Final bonuses are not guaranteed and are only paid on policies that result from claims through the death of the policyholder or maturity of the policy within the period of declaration or by concession on surrender.
No policyholder benefit provisions are recorded for future annual or final bonus declarations.
The policyholders liabilities of the regulated with-profits funds are accounted for under FRS 27.
Under FRS 27 for the UK with-profits funds: no deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax are recognised: and adjusted realistic basis liabilities instead of MSB liabilities are recognised.
134 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A FRS 27 realistic basis liabilities are underpinned by the FSAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: a with-profits benefits reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group on a market consistent basis.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR and investment policies the Group employs and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that the Group retains in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with managements policy for with-profits funds and the disclosures made in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
The realistic basis liabilities representing the Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-profits business included in Form 19 of the FSA regulatory returns exclude the element for the shareholders share of the future bonuses.
For accounting purposes under FRS 27, this latter item is reversed because, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
Unallocated surplus The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
As allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-profits funds wholly as a liability.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
Other insurance contracts i. e. contracts which contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For these contracts UK GAAP has been applied, which reflects the MSB.
Under this basis the following approach applies: Other UK insurance contracts Other UK insurance contracts that contain significant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-profit business.
For the purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder benefits are wholly or partly determined by reference to specific investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder benefit are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect actual experience.
Overseas subsidiaries The assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of overseas subsidiaries are determined initially using local GAAP bases of accounting with subsequent adjustments where necessary to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Jackson The future policyholder benefit provisions for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined using the net level premium method under US GAAP principles and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder benefit provision included within policyholder liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position is the policyholder account balance.
For the business of Jackson, the determination of the expected emergence of margins, against which the amortisation profile of the DAC asset is established, is dependent on certain key assumptions.
For single premium deferred annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns which, for 2009 and 2008, was 8.4 per cent per annum, implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on fee income and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis see investment policies above whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson has used shadow accounting.
Under shadow accounting, to the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of DAC and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
135 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Asian operations Except for the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, the future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For the Hong Kong business, which is a branch of the PAC, and the Singapore and Malaysian operations, the valuation principles and sensitivities to changes of assumptions of conventional with-profits and other protection-type policies are similar to those described above for equivalent products written by the UK operations.
Refinements to the local reserving methodology are generally treated as change in estimates, dependent on the nature of the change.
Such a refinement arose in 2009 in respect of Malaysia as explained in note D4 h. For the operations in Taiwan, Vietnam and Japan, countries where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For these three operations the business written is primarily nonparticipating and linked business.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder benefit provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Where appropriate, liabilities for participating business for these three operations include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
Although the basis of valuation of Prudentials overseas operations is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and ABI SORP, the valuation of policyholder benefit provisions for these businesses may differ from that determined on a UK MSB for UK operations with the same features.
These differences are permitted under IFRS 4.
Liability adequacy The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance provisions to ensure that the carrying amounts of provisions less related DAC and present value of in-force business see policy on business acquisitions and disposals is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the Group seeks to reduce loss exposure by reinsuring certain levels of risk in various areas of exposure with other insurance companies or reinsurers.
An asset or liability is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position representing premiums due to, or payments due from reinsurers and the share of benefits and claims recoverable from reinsurers.
The measurement of reinsurance assets is consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
The only material purchases of reinsurance contracts in the periods of the results in the financial statements arise in Jackson.
Gains arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts by Jackson are deferred and amortised over the contract duration.
Any loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Investment contracts contracts which do not contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar withprofits insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that reflects the hybrid nature of the arrangements whereby part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18.
For those investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
On contract inception, the liability is measured at fair value less incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs.
Remeasurement at future reporting dates is on an amortised cost basis utilising an effective interest rate methodology whereby the interest rate utilised discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability.
Those investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms are designated at fair value through profit and loss because the resulting liabilities are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Fair value is based upon the fair value of the underlying assets of the fund.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
c Other assets, liabilities, income and expenditure Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those entities it is deemed to control.
The degree of control is determined by the ability of the Group to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits.
Consideration is given to other factors such as potential voting rights.
The Group has consolidated special purpose entities SPEs, such as funds holding collateralised debt obligations CDOs, where evaluation of the substance of the relationship between the SPE and the Group indicates that the Group is deemed to control the SPE under IFRS.
The Group holds investments in internally and externally managed open-ended investment companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These are consolidated where the Groups percentage ownership level is 50 per cent or greater.
The Groups percentage ownership levels in these entities can fluctuate from day to day according to changes in the Groups and third-party participation in the funds.
In instances where the Groups ownership of internally managed funds declines marginally below 50 per cent and, based on historical analysis and future expectations the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27.
136 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A Where the Group exercises significant influence or has the power to exercise significant influence over an entity, generally through ownership of 20 per cent or more of the entitys voting rights, but does not control the entity, then this is considered to be an investment in an associate.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Groups investments in associates are recorded at the Groups share of the associates net assets.
The carrying value of investments in associates is adjusted each year for the Groups share of the entities profit or loss.
This does not apply to investments in associates held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including the venture capital business or mutual funds and unit trusts, which as permitted by IAS 28 are carried at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are recognised using proportional consolidation whereby the Groups share of an entitys individual balances are combined line-by-line with similar items into the Group financial statements.
Other interests in entities, where significant influence is not exercised, are carried as investments at fair value through profit and loss.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings in which Prudential has a controlling interest, using accounts drawn up to 31 December 2009 except where entities have non-coterminous year ends.
In such cases, the information consolidated is based on the accounting period of these entities and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the information consolidated is deemed to cover the same period for all entities throughout the Group.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences to the date control ceases.
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Results of asset management activities include those for managing internal funds.
Investment properties Investments in leasehold and freehold properties not for occupation by the Group including from 2009 properties under development for future use as investment properties, are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups qualified surveyors or by taking into consideration the advice of professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS guidelines.
The RICS guidelines apply separate assumptions to the value of the land, buildings and tenancy associated with each property.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
The cost of additions and renovations is capitalised and considered when estimating fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash flow projections or recent prices in less active markets.
Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where a lease has a contingent rent element, the rent is calculated in accordance with individual lease terms and charged as an expense as incurred.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
The largest of these schemes is the PSPS, a defined benefit scheme.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are schemes where the Company pays contributions into a fund and the Company has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions should the assets of that fund be insufficient to pay the employee benefits relating to employee service in both current and prior periods.
Defined benefit schemes are post-employment benefit plans that are not defined contribution schemes.
For the Groups defined benefit schemes, if the present value of the defined benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups statement of financial position.
By contrast, if the fair value of the assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation then the surplus will only be recognised if the nature of the arrangements under the trust deed, and funding arrangements between the Trustee and the Company support the availability of refunds or recoverability through agreed reductions in future contributions.
In addition, if there is a constructive obligation for the Company to pay deficit funding, this is also recognised.
The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the defined benefit obligation.
Estimated future cash flows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate, adjusted to allow for the difference in duration between the bond index and the pension liabilities where appropriate, to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of discount on liabilities at the start of the period, less the expected investment return on scheme assets at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are also charged or credited to the income statement.
Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed when due.
Once paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Any prepayments are reflected as an asset on the statement of financial position.
Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
The arrangements for distribution to employees of shares held in trust relating to share award plans and for entitlement to dividends depend upon the particular terms of each plan.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
137 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
Vesting conditions exclude the ability of an employee to voluntarily exit a scheme and such exits are treated as an acceleration of vesting and hence a shortening of the period over which the expense is charged.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of options likely to be exercised at each statement of financial position date and adjusts the charge to the income statement accordingly.
Where the share-based payment depends upon vesting outcomes attaching to market-based performance conditions, additional modelling is performed to estimate the fair value of the awards.
No subsequent adjustment is then made to the fair value charge for awards that do not vest on account of these performance conditions not being met.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savingsrelated share option schemes.
None of the trusts that hold shares for employee incentive and savings plans continue to hold these shares once they are issued to employees.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Tax The Groups UK subsidiaries each file separate tax returns.
Jackson and other foreign subsidiaries, where permitted, file consolidated income tax returns.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, where one domestic UK company is a 75 per cent owned subsidiary of another UK company or both are 75 per cent owned subsidiaries of a common parent, the companies are considered to be within the same UK tax group.
For companies within the same tax group, trading profits and losses arising in the same accounting period may be offset for purposes of determining current and deferred taxes.
Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences, being the difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and its value for tax purposes.
IAS 12, Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more likely than not, that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax related to charges or credits taken to other comprehensive income is also credited or charged to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss.
The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense on with-profits funds attributable to both the policyholders and the shareholders.
Different tax rules apply under UK law depending upon whether the business is life insurance or pension business.
Tax on the life insurance business is based on investment returns less expenses attributable to that business.
Tax on the pension business is based on the shareholders profits or losses attributable to that business.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Basis of presentation of tax charges Tax charges in the income statement reflect the aggregate of the shareholder tax on the long-term business result and on the Groups other results.
Under UK Listing Authority rules, profit before tax is required to be presented.
This requirement, coupled with the fact that IFRS does not contemplate tax charges which are attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies, necessitates the reporting of total tax charges within the presented results.
The result before all taxes i. e. profit before tax as shown in the income statement represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
Separately within the income statement, profit before tax attributable to shareholders is shown after deduction of taxes attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Tax charges on this measure of profit reflect the tax charges attributable to shareholders.
In determining the tax charges attributable to shareholders, the Group has applied a methodology consistent with that previously applied under UK GAAP reflecting the broad principles underlying the tax legislation of life assurance companies.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment such as owner occupied property, computer equipment and furniture and fixtures, are carried at depreciated cost.
Costs including expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets are capitalised.
Depreciation is calculated and charged on a straight-line basis over an assets estimated useful life.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each statement of financial position date.
If the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount then its carrying value is written down to that recoverable amount.
Leasehold improvements to owner occupied property are depreciated over the shorter of the economic life and the life of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value.
Business acquisitions and disposals Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the costs of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Should the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity exceed the cost of 138 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A acquisition then this amount is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Income and expenses of entities sold during the period are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between sale proceeds, net of selling costs, less the net assets of the entity at the date of disposal.
For life insurance company acquisitions, the adjusted net assets include an identifiable intangible asset for the present value of inforce business which represents the profits that are expected to emerge from the acquired insurance business.
The present value of inforce business is calculated using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses and is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
The net carrying amount of insurance liabilities acquired less the value of in-force business, represents the fair value of the insurance liabilities acquired.
An intangible asset may also be recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under these contracts.
The Company uses the economic entity method to purchase minority interests.
Under the economic entity method any difference between consideration and the share of net assets acquired is recorded directly in equity.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group statement of financial position as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
These cash generating units reflect the smallest group of assets that includes the goodwill and generates cash flows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets.
If the carrying amount of the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount then the goodwill is considered impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement and may not be reversed in future periods.
Acquired intangible assets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are fair valued at acquisition and carried at cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation calculated is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Rights of offset Assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements are only reported on a net basis when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Segments Under IFRS 8, adopted in 2009, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee GEC, which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the GEC to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
The operating segments identified by the Group reflect the Groups organisational structure, which is by both geography Asia, US and UK and by product line insurance operations and asset management.
Insurance operations principally comprise of products that contain both significant and insignificant elements of insurance risk.
The products are managed together and there is no distinction between these two categories other than for accounting purposes.
This segment also includes the commission earned on general insurance business and investment subsidiaries held for supporting the Groups insurance operations.
Asset management comprises both internal and third-party asset management services, inclusive of portfolio and mutual fund management, where the Group acts as an advisor, and broker-dealer activities.
The nature of the products and the managing of the business differ from the risks inherent in the insurance operations segments, and the regulatory environment of the asset management industry differs from that of the insurance operations segments.
The Groups operating segments as determined under IFRS 8 are: Insurance operations Asia US Jackson UK Asset management operations M&G Asian asset management US broker dealer and asset management including Curian Prudential Capital has been incorporated into the M&G operating segment for the purposes of segment reporting.
139 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued The performance measure of operating segments utilised by the Company is IFRS operating profit attributable to shareholders based on longer-term investment returns.
This measure excludes the recurrent items of short-term fluctuations in investment returns and the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes.
In addition, for 2009 this measure excludes the non-recurrent cost of hedging the Group IGD capital surplus included within short-term fluctuations in investment returns see note B1.
In 2009 the Company sold its Taiwan agency business.
In order to facilitate comparisons on a like for like basis, the loss on sale and the results of the Taiwan agency business during the period of ownership including those for the 2008 comparatives are shown separately within the segmental analysis of profit.
Further details on the determination of the performance measure of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is provided below in note A4 d. Segment results that are reported to the GEC include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items are mainly in relation to the Group Head Office and Asia Regional Head Office.
Shareholders dividends Dividends to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
Where scrip dividends are issued, the value of such shares, measured as the amount of the cash dividend alternative, is credited to reserves and the amount in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued is transferred from the share premium account to retained earnings.
Share capital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classified as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
Foreign exchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, i. e. the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates whilst all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component in the Statement of comprehensive income.
Foreign currency borrowings that are used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates and movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
d Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns The Group provides supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders that distinguishes operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other constituent elements of the total profit.
The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to measure the performance of its operational segments.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business are based on the expected longerterm rates of return.
This reflects the particular features of long-term insurance business where assets and liabilities are held for the longterm and for which the accounting basis for insurance liabilities under current IFRS is not generally conducive to demonstrating trends in underlying performance for life businesses exclusive of changes in market conditions.
In determining profit on this basis the following key elements are applied to the results of the Groups shareholder-financed operations.
i Debt and equity securities Longer-term investment returns comprise income and longer-term capital returns.
For debt securities the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements.
These are a risk margin reserve RMR based charge for expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured.
The shareholder-backed operation for which the risk margin reserve charge is most significant is Jackson National Life.
The RMR charge for Jackson is based on long-term average default and recovery data as published by Moodys.
During 2009 refinements were made to the RMR process following the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC issuing RBC valuation data for more than 20,000 RMBS securities.
Longer-term equity returns comprise aggregate long-term income and capital returns.
ii Derivative value movements Value movements for Jacksons equity-based derivatives and variable annuity product embedded derivatives are included in operating profits based on longer-term investment returns.
The inclusion of these movements is so as to broadly match with the results on the Jackson variable annuity book that pertain to equity market movements, subject to some limitations for GMDB products where US GAAP does not fully reflect the economic features being hedged.
These accounting mis-matches are magnified in periods of significant market movements.
140 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A Other derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
These derivatives are primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly-based hedging programme for features of Jacksons bond portfolio for which value movements are booked in the statement of comprehensive income rather than income statement and product liabilities for which US GAAP accounting does not reflect the economic features being hedged.
These key elements are of most importance in determining the operating results based on longer-term investment returns of Jackson.
There are two exceptions to the basis described above for determining operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
These are for: Unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account business.
For such business the policyholder liabilities are directly reflective of the asset value movements.
Accordingly, all asset value movements are recorded in the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Assets covering non-participating business liabilities that are interest rate sensitive.
For UK annuity business policyholder liabilities are determined by reference to current interest rates.
The value movements of the assets covering liabilities are closely correlated with the related change in liabilities.
Accordingly, asset value movements are recorded within the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Policyholder liabilities include a margin for credit risk, as explained in note D2 f iii.
Variations between actual and best estimate expected impairments are recorded as a component of short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
iii Liabilities to policyholders and embedded derivatives for product guarantees Under IFRS, the degree to which the carrying values of liabilities to policyholders are sensitive to current market conditions varies between territories depending upon the nature of the grandfathered measurement basis.
In general, in those instances where the liabilities are particularly sensitive to routine changes in market conditions, the accounting basis is such that the impact of market movements on the assets and liabilities are broadly equivalent in the income statement, and operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is not distorted.
In these circumstances there is no need for the movement in the liability to be bifurcated between the element that relates to longer-term market conditions and short-term effects.
However, some types of business movements in liabilities do require bifurcation to ensure that at the net level i. e. after allocated investment return and change for policyholder benefits the operating result reflects longer-term market returns.
Examples where such bifurcation is necessary are: a Asia Vietnamese participating business For the participating business in Vietnam the liabilities include policyholders interest in investment appreciation and other surplus.
Bonuses paid in a reporting period and accrued policyholder interest in investment appreciation and other surpluses primarily reflect the level of realised investment gains above contract specific hurdle levels.
For this business, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns includes the aggregate of longer-term returns on the relevant investments, a credit or charge equal to movements on the liability for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains net of any recovery of prior deficits on the participating pool, less amortisation over five years of current and prior movements on such credits or charges.
The overall purpose of these adjustments is to ensure that investment returns included in operating results equal longer-term returns but that in any one reporting period movements on liabilities to policyholders caused by investment returns are substantially matched in the presentation of the segmental analysis of profit before tax attributable to policyholders.
Non-participating business Liabilities are bifurcated so that the total movement in the carrying value of liabilities is split between that which is included in operating results based on longer-term investment returns, and the residual element for the effect of using year end rates is included in short-term fluctuations and in the income statement.
Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit GMDB product features For unhedged GMDB liabilities accounted for under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP, such as in the Japanese business, the change in carrying value is determined under SOP 03-01, which partially reflects changes in market conditions.
Under the companys segmental basis of reporting the operating profit reflects the change in liability based on longer-term market conditions with the difference between the charge to the operating result and the movement reflected in the total result included in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
b US operations embedded derivatives for variable annuity guarantee features Under IFRS, the Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB and Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit GMIB reinsurance are required to be fair valued as embedded derivatives.
The movements in carrying values are affected by changes in the level of observed implied equity volatility and changes to the discount rate applied from year to year.
For these embedded derivatives, as described in note D3 i, the discount rate applied reflects AA corporate bond curve rates.
For the purposes of determining operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, the charge for these features is determined using historical longer-term equity volatility levels and longterm average AA corporate bond rate curves.
141 Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and accounting policies continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued c UK shareholder-backed annuity business With one exception, the operating result based on longer-term investment returns reflects the impact of all value movements on policyholder liabilities for annuity business in PRIL and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
The exception is for the impact on credit risk provisioning of actual downgrades during the year.
As this feature arises due to shortterm market conditions the effect of downgrades, if any, in a particular year, on the overall provisions for credit risks is included in the category of short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
The effects of other changes to credit risk provisioning are included in the operating result, as is the net effect of changes to the valuation rate of interest applied to portfolio rebalancing to align more closely with management benchmark.
iv Fund management and other non-insurance businesses For these businesses, the particular features applicable for life assurance noted above do not apply.
For these businesses it is inappropriate to include returns in the operating result on the basis described above.
Instead it is appropriate to generally include realised gains and losses including impairments in the operating result with unrealised gains and losses being included in short-term fluctuations.
For this purpose impairments are calculated as the credit loss determined by comparing the projected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate to the carrying value.
In some instances it may also be appropriate to amortise realised gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments to operating results over a time period that reflects the underlying substance of the arrangements.
A5: New accounting pronouncements The following standards, interpretations and amendments have either been adopted for the first time in 2009 or have been issued but are not yet effective in 2009, including those which have not yet been adopted in the EU.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that are anticipated to have an impact upon the Groups financial statements have been discussed.
Accounting pronouncements adopted in 2009 IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 superseded IAS 14 Segment Reporting for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and requires the Group to adopt the management approach to reporting the financial performance of its operating segments.
In accordance with IFRS 8, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee, which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Further details on the operating segments and their related performance measure are provided in note A4 c in Segments.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has resulted in presentational and disclosure changes in the Groups financial statements.
This standard has no impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation The revised version of IAS 1, which includes non-mandatory changes to the titles of some of the financial statements, has resulted in a number of changes in presentation and disclosure.
As a result of the adoption of this revised IAS 1, the Group has changed the titles of its consolidated balance sheet to consolidated statement of financial position and its consolidated cash flow statement to consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Group has also introduced a consolidated statement of comprehensive income in accordance with the revised IAS 1.
Components of comprehensive income recognised outside of the income statement, for example exchange movements and the unrealised valuation movement of Jacksons available-for-sale debt securities, are now presented separately from changes in equity and are disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income.
Consequent to this presentational change, the Group has altered the exchange translation method of the unrealised valuation movement of Jacksons available-for-sale debt securities from the previous application of closing exchange rate to the average exchange rate consistent with the translation method of foreign subsidiaries income statement items.
Accordingly, the Groups 2008 comparatives in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the consolidated statement of changes in equity have been altered with a reclassification of 240 million of exchange losses from the unrealised valuation movement of Jacksons available-for-sale debt securities, net of related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs and tax to the exchange translation reserve.
There is no impact on shareholders equity or the income statement from this change.
Improvements to IFRSs 2008 The improvements issued by the IASB in May 2008 include amendments to a number of standards.
The only amendment that has impacted the Groups financial statements is the amendment to IAS 40, Investment property and consequential amendments to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment which now states that property that is under construction or development for future use as investment property is within the scope of IAS 40 and so should be measured at fair value where this is reliably measurable.
Previously, these properties were within the scope of IAS 16 and were measured at cost.
As a result of this amendment, the Group has reclassified its properties under development for future use as investment properties from Property, Plant and Equipment to Investment properties.
This amendment is effective on a prospective application basis from 1 January 2009 and accordingly, no adjustment to the 2008 comparatives has been made.
At 1 January 2009, properties under development with a cost of 131 million were reclassified to Investment properties and revalued to a fair value of 152 million.
142 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A The fair value adjustment of a gain of 21 million was recorded in the income statement but as the relevant properties were held by the PAC with-profits fund, the gain was absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus and has no direct effect on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity.
There was no deferred tax impact on this fair value adjustment.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments In March 2009, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 which require enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The amendments include the introduction of a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurement disclosures and require additional disclosures about the relative reliability of fair value measurements.
This has been included in note G1.
In addition, the Group has also adopted the following accounting pronouncements in 2009 but their adoption has had no material impact on results and financial position of the Group: Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing costs Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1, Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in A Foreign Operation Accounting pronouncements endorsed by the EU but not yet effective The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued and endorsed for use in the EU but are not mandatory for adoption for the 31 December year end.
Revised IFRS 3, Business Combinations and Amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 are the outcomes of the second phase of the IASBs and the US Financial Accounting Standards Boards FASB joint business combination project.
The more significant changes from the revised IFRS 3 include: The immediate expensing of acquisition-related costs rather than inclusion in goodwill: and recognition and measurement at fair value of contingent consideration at acquisition date with subsequent changes to income.
The amendments to IAS 27 reflect changes to the accounting for non-controlling minority interests.
The revised IFRS 3 and amended IAS 27 are effective for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items This amendment to IAS 39 clarifies how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular situations.
This amendment is effective for EU compliant financial statements for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this amendment but it is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Accounting pronouncements not yet endorsed by the EU The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued but not yet endorsed for use in the EU.
Improvements to IFRSs 2009 In April 2009, the IASB published amendments to a number of standards as part if its annual improvements projects.
These amendments are effective for Prudentials 2010 financial statements.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these improvements to its financial statements.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-Settled Share-based Payment Transactions In June 2009, the IASB issued further amendments to IFRS 2 which sets out the accounting requirements for share-based payments.
These amendments clarified existing guidance, in particular by specifying that an entity that receives goods or services in a share-based payment arrangement must account for those goods or services no matter which entity in the group settles the transaction and no matter whether the transaction is settled in shares or cash.
The Group is still assessing the impact of the standard but it is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments In November 2009, the IFRIC issued guidance on how to account for the extinguishment of a financial liability by the issue of equity instruments.
This standard is likely to be effective for EU compliant financial statements for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
This interpretation is not considered to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement In November 2009, the IASB issued a new standard which altered the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
Under the new standard only two possible classifications arise, rather than the four existing classifications currently available under IAS 39, and will result in all financial assets being valued at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss.
Financial liabilities are excluded from the scope of the standard.
The standard is not mandatory before 2013 year-ends and is yet to be endorsed by the European Union.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of this standard.
143 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results B1: Segment disclosure income statement The determination of the operating segments and performance measure of the operating segments of the Group are as detailed in note A4.
2009 m 2008 m Asian operations note ii Insurance operations: Underlying results before exceptional credit 353 257 D4 h Exceptional credit for Malaysia operations 63 Total Asian insurance operations 416 257 Development expenses 6 26 Total Asian insurance operations after development expenses 410 231 Asian asset management 55 52 Total Asian operations 465 283 US operations notes ii, iv Jackson US insurance operations 459 406 note iv Broker-dealer and asset management 4 7 Total US operations 463 413 UK operations note ii UK insurance operations: Long-term business 606 545 note v General insurance commission 51 44 Total UK insurance operations 657 589 M&G 238 286 Total UK operations 895 875 Total segment profit 1,823 1,571 Other income and expenditure Investment return and other income 22 89 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 209 172 Corporate expenditure: Group Head Office 146 130 Asia Regional Head Office 57 41 note viii Charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes 5 6 Total 395 260 note ix Restructuring costs 23 28 note i Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,405 1,283 note vi Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 36 1,721 note vii Shareholders' share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 74 13 note iii Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 621 1 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 746 450 Notes i Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is a supplemental measure of results and is the basis on which management regularly review the performance of the Groups segments as defined by IFRS 8.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business are based on expected long-term rates of return as discussed in note A4.
The expected long-term rates of return are intended to reflect historical real rates of return and, where appropriate, current inflation expectations adjusted for consensus economic and investment forecasts.
The most significant operation that requires adjustment for the difference between actual and long-term investment returns is Jackson.
The amounts included in operating results for long-term capital returns for Jacksons debt securities comprise two components.
These are a risk margin reserve based charge for long-term expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term results to the date when sold bonds would otherwise have matured.
Consistent with the policy of including longer-term investment returns in the measure of operating profit, movements in policyholder liabilities are also, where appropriate, delineated between amounts included in operating profits and movements arising from short-term market conditions, which are recorded in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
ii Effect of changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of determining life assurance liabilities.
The results of the Groups long-term business operations are affected by changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of preparation.
These are described in notes D2 h, D3 h and D4 h. 144 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B iii Sale of Taiwan agency business: In order to facilitate comparisons of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns that reflect the Groups retained operations, the results attributable to the Taiwan business for which the sale process was completed in June 2009 are included separately within the supplementary analysis of profit.
iv Jackson operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
IFRS basis operating profits for US operations include the following amounts net of related change in amortisation of deferred acquisition costs, where applicable so as to derive longer-term investment returns.
2009 2008 m m Debt securities: Amortisation of interest related realised gains and losses 47 24 Risk margin reserve charge for longer-term credit related losses see below 60 41 Equity type investments: Longer-term returns 69 62 The risk margin reserve RMR charge for longer-term credit related losses included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for 2009 is based on an average annual RMR of 27 basis points 2008: 23 basis points on average book values for the year as shown below.
2009 2008 Average Annual Average Annual book expected lossesbook expected losses value RMR value RMR Moodys rating category or equivalent under NAIC ratings of RMBS US $m % US $m m US $m % US $m m A3 or higher 19,509 0.03 5 3 21,098 0.03 6 3 Baa1, 2, 3 21,072 0.23 47 30 20,145 0.23 46 25 Ba1, 2, 3 2,035 1.13 23 15 1,635 1.11 18 10 B1, 2, 3 594 2.86 17 11 514 2.80 14 8 Below B3 691 3.91 27 17 373 3.98 15 8 Total 43,901 0.27 119 76 43,765 0.23 99 54 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs see below 25 16 23 13 Risk margin reserve charge to operating profit for longer-term 94 60 76 41 credit related losses During 2009 the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC changed its approach to the determination of regulatory ratings of residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS.
This recognised the complexities associated with these investments and the limitations of the credit rating previously applied.
The new ratings framework has been applied by an external third party, PIMCO, and provides regulatory ratings details for more than 20,000 RMBS securities owned by US insurers at the end of 2009.
Jackson has decided to use the ratings resulting from this model to determine the average annual RMR for 2009 as this is considered more relevant information for the RMBS securities concerned.
If the previous approach of using ratings by Nationally Recognised Statistical Ratings Organisation NRSROS such as Moodys, Standard and Poors or Fitch for these investments had been used this would have resulted in an annual RMR of 31 basis points for 2009, an additional 11 million of annual expected losses for the year.
It should be noted that this change has no impact on the valuation applied to these securities within the IFRS statement of financial position and there is no impact to IFRS profit before tax or shareholders equity as a result of this change.
The longer-term rates of return for equity-type investments ranged from 6.7 per cent to 7.9 per cent for 2009 and 6.3 per cent to 8.4 per cent for 2008 depending on the type of investments.
These rates are currently based on spreads over 10 year US treasury rates of 400 to 600 basis points.
Market value movements on equity-based derivatives and embedded derivatives are also recorded within operating profits based on longerterm investment returns so as to be consistent with the market related effects on fees and reserve movements for equity-based products.
Market value movements on other derivatives are excluded from operating profit, and are included in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Consistent with the basis of measurement of insurance assets and liabilities for US GAAP investment contracts applied to Jacksons IFRS results, the charges and credits to operating profits based on longer-term investment returns are partially offset by related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
v UK operations transferred its general insurance business to Churchill in 2002, with general insurance commission representing the commission receivable net of expenses for Prudential-branded general insurance products as part of this arrangement.
145 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B1: Segment disclosure income statement continued vi Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business.
2009 2008 m m Insurance operations: Asia 31 138 US 27 1,058 UK 108 212 Other operations: IGD hedge costs 235 Other 105 313 130 313 Total 36 1,721 General overview of defaults The Group incurred defaults of 11 million in 2009 2008: 206 million on its debt securities portfolio.
The defaults of 11 million in 2009 were experienced by the UK Shareholder-backed annuity business.
Jackson experienced less than 1 million of default losses during 2009.
Defaults in 2008 of 206 million including losses on sale arose primarily in respect of Lehman Brothers 110 million and Washington Mutual 91 million, the majority of which arose in Jackson.
Asian insurance operations The fluctuations for Asian insurance operations in 2009 of a gain of 31 million primarily relate to strong market performance in Taiwan and Japan partially offset by the fall in the Vietnamese bond markets.
For 2008, the fluctuations of a charge of 138 million relate mainly to 81 million for Vietnam, reflecting a significant fall in the Vietnamese bond and equity markets.
US insurance operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for US insurance operations for the year comprise the following items: 2009 2008 m m Short-term fluctuations related to debt securities: Charges in the year Defaults 78 Losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating bonds 6 130 Bond write downs 630 419 Recoveries reversals 5 3 631 624 B1 iv Less: risk margin charge included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 76 54 555 570 Interest related realised gains losses : Arising in the year 125 25 Less: amortisation gains and losses arising in current and prior years to operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 59 28 66 53 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 75 88 Total short-term fluctuations related to debt securities 414 535 Derivatives other than equity related : market value movements net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 385 369 Equity type investments: actual less longer-term return net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 59 69 Other items net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 115 85 Total 27 1,058 146 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B The charges on debt securities of Jackson incurred in 2009 and 2008 of 631 million and 624 million, respectively comprise the following: Losses on sale of impaired and Bond deteriorating Recoveries 2009 2008 Defaults write downs bonds reversals Total Total m m m m m m Residential mortgage-backed securities Prime 268 268 25 Alt-A 192 10 182 138 Sub-prime 49 49 4 Total residential mortgage-backed securities 509 10 499 167 Corporate debt securities 91 16 107 441 Other 30 5 25 16 Total 630 6 5 631 624 Other bond write downs and defaults of 30 million relate to Piedmont securities.
Piedmont is an investment vehicle investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
The gain of 385 million 2008: charge of 369 million value movement is for freestanding derivatives held to manage the fixed annuity and other general account business.
Under IAS 39, unless hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative value movements in respect of equity risk within variable annuity business are included within the operating profit based on longerterm investment returns to broadly match with the commercial effects to which the variable annuity derivative programme relates, subject to some limitations to GMDB liabilities where US GAAP does not fully reflect the economic features being hedged.
Other derivative value movements are separately identified within short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
For the derivatives programme attaching to the fixed annuity and other general account business the Group has continued its approach of not seeking to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39.
This decision reflects the inherent constraints of IAS 39 for hedge accounting investments and life assurance assets and liabilities under grandfathered US GAAP under IFRS 4.
The 115 million gain 2008: charge of 85 million for other items shown above comprises a gain of 85 million 2008: charge of 70 million for the difference between the charge for embedded derivatives included in the operating result and the charge to the total result and a gain of 30 million 2008: charge of 15 million of other items.
For embedded derivatives the operating result reflects the application of 10 year average AA corporate bond rate curves and a static historical equity volatility assumption.
The total result reflects the application of year end AA corporate bond rate curves and current equity volatility levels.
In addition, for US insurance operations, included within the statement of comprehensive income, is a reduction in net unrealised losses on debt securities classified as available-for-sale of 2,669 million 2008: increase in net unrealised losses of 2,104 million.
These temporary market value movements do not reflect defaults or impairments.
Additional details on the movement in the value of the Jackson portfolio are included in note D3.
UK insurance operations The short-term fluctuations gain for UK insurance operations of 108 million 2008: charge 212 million reflected principally asset value movements, principally for shareholder-backed annuity business.
The 2008 charge of 212 million also included 42 million for the effect of credit downgrades on the calculation of liabilities for shareholder-backed annuity business in PRIL and PAC non-profit sub-fund.
IGD hedge costs During the severe equity market conditions experienced in the first quarter of 2009 coupled with historically high equity volatility the Group entered into exceptional short-dated hedging contracts to protect against potential tail-events on the IGD capital position, in addition to the regular operational hedging programmes.
The hedge contracts have expired and have not been renewed.
Other operations Short-term fluctuations of other operations, in addition to the previously discussed IGD hedge costs, arise from: 2009 2008 m m Unrealised value movements on swaps held centrally to manage Group assets and liabilities 28 38 Unrealised value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio 66 190 Unrealised value movements on investments held by other operations 11 14 Sale of investment in India Mutual fund in May 2008 giving rise to a transfer to operating profit of 47 million for the crystallised gain, and value reduction in the year, prior to sale, of 24 million 71 105 313 147 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B1: Segment disclosure income statement continued vii Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2009 2008 m m Actuarial gains and losses Actual less expected return on scheme assets 23 97 Experience gains on scheme liabilities 17 19 Losses gains on changes of assumptions for scheme liabilities 147 71 107 7 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 47 2 60 9 Other gains and losses Movement in the provision for deficit funding of PSPS 48 13 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 34 9 14 4 Total 74 13 The actuarial gains and losses shown in the table above relate to the Scottish Amicable, M&G and until 2009 the small Taiwan defined benefit pension scheme.
The amounts did not include actuarial gains and losses for the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS for which the Group has not recognised its interest in the schemes underlying surplus.
The losses of 147 million on change of assumptions comprise mainly the effect of a decrease in the risk discount rate combined with the effect of increase in inflation rates.
Other gains and losses relate to the change in the year of the provision for deficit funding obligation for PSPS.
Further details on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and the effect of the accounting policy change are shown in note I2.
viii Share-based payments The charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes is for the SAYE and Group performance-related schemes.
ix Restructuring costs are incurred in the UK as part of EEV covered business 16 million and as part of central operations EEV non-covered business 7 million.
B2: Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in employee share trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups only class of dilutive potential ordinary shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
No adjustment is made if the impact is anti-dilutive overall.
2009 Net of tax and Basic Diluted Before tax Tax Minority minority earnings earnings B1 F5 interests interests per share per share m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,405 318 2 1,085 43.4p 43.3p Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 36 224 1 261 10.4p 10.4p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 74 21 53 2.1 p 2.1 p Adjustment from loss on sale and result of Taiwan agency business 621 18 603 24.1 p 24.0 p Based on profit for the year from continuing operations 746 55 1 690 27.6p 27.6p Adjustments for post-tax results of I9 discontinued operations 14 14 0.6 p 0.6 p Based on profit for the year 732 55 1 676 27.0p 27.0p 148 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B 2008 Net of tax and Basic Diluted Before tax Tax Minority minority earnings earnings B1 F5 interests interests per share per share m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,283 292 4 987 39.9p 39.9p Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 1,721 352 1 1,370 55.4 p 55.4 p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 13 3 10 0.4 p 0.4 p Adjustment for result of sold Taiwan agency business 1 4 3 0.1 p 0.1 p Based on loss for the year 450 59 5 396 16.0 p 16.0 p Number of shares A reconciliation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares used for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is set out as below: 2009 m 2008 m Weighted average shares for calculation of basic earnings per share 2,501 2,472 Shares under option at end of year 12 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value on assumed option exercise 7 Weighted average shares for calculation of diluted earnings per share 2,506 2,472 At 31 December 2008 there were seven million shares under option offset by six million shares that would have been issued at fair value on assumed option exercise.
The net one million potentially dilutive ordinary shares have been excluded from the 2008 diluted earnings per share calculation as their inclusion would have decreased the loss per share.
B3: Dividends 2009 m 2008 m Dividends declared and paid in reporting period Parent company: Interim dividend 2009: 6.29p, 2008: 5.99p per share 159 149 Final dividend for prior period 2009: 12.91p, 2008: 12.30p per share 322 304 Subsidiary company payments to attributable to minority interests 2 Total 481 455 As a result of shares issued in lieu of dividends of 137 million 2008: 157 million, dividends paid in cash, as set out in the consolidated cash flow statement, were 344 million 2008: 297 million.
2009 m 2008 m Parent company dividends relating to reporting period: Interim dividend 2009: 6.29p, 2008: 5.99p per share 159 149 Final dividend 2009: 13.56p, 2008: 12.91p per share 343 322 Total 502 471 A final dividend of 13.56 pence per share was proposed by the directors on 8 March 2010.
Subject to shareholders approval, the dividend will be paid on 27 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 April 2010.
The dividend will absorb an estimated 343 million of shareholders funds.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered to shareholders.
149 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B4: Exchange translation Exchange movement recognised in other comprehensive income 2009 m 2008 m Asian operations 189 456 US operations 244 581 Unallocated to a segment central funds 227 646 206 391 As a result of changes following the implementation of amendments to IAS 1, exchange losses of 240 million relating to US operations previously included within the unrealised valuation movement of Jacksons available-for-sale debt securities have been reclassified as exchange movements within the statement of comprehensive income.
This is explained further in note A5.
The movements for Asian and US operations reflect the application of year end exchange rates to the assets and liabilities and average exchange rates to the income statement on translation of these operations into the presentation currency of the Group.
The movement unallocated to a segment mainly reflects the translation of currency borrowings and forward contracts which have been designated as a net investment hedge against the currency risk of the net investment in Jackson.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
Annual Premium Equivalents APEs are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Department of Work and Pensions DWP rebate business is classified as single recurrent business.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
The format of the tables shown above is consistent with the distinction between insurance and investment products as applied for previous financial reporting periods.
With the exception of some US institutional business, products categorised as insurance refer to those classified as contracts of long-term insurance business for regulatory reporting purposes, i. e. falling within one of the classes of insurance specified in Part II of Schedule 1 to the Regulated Activities Order under FSA regulations.
The details shown above for insurance products include contributions for contracts that are classified under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts as not containing significant insurance risk.
These products are described as investment contracts or other financial instruments under IFRS.
Contracts included in this category are primarily certain unit-linked and similar contracts written in UK insurance operations and Guaranteed Investment Contracts and similar funding agreements written in US operations.
ii Investment products referred to in the table for funds under management above are unit trust, mutual funds and similar types of retail fund management arrangements.
These are unrelated to insurance products that are classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4, as described in the preceding paragraph, although similar IFRS recognition and measurement principles apply to the acquisition costs and fees attaching to this type of business.
iii The tables above include new business for the Taiwan bank distribution operation.
New business of the Taiwan Agency business, which was sold in June 2009 as explained in note I1 is excluded from the tables.
Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.
iv New business and market gross inflows and redemptions have been translated at the average exchange rate for the year applicable.
Funds under management at points in time are translated at the exchange rate applicable at those dates.
152 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B B6: Group statement of financial position To explain more comprehensively the assets, liabilities and capital of the Groups businesses it is appropriate to provide an analysis of the Groups statement of financial position by operating segment and type of business.
The tables below aggregate the three asset management segments for ease of presentation and hence should be read in conjunction with the associated tables on asset management in note E2.
a Group statement of financial position by operating segment i Position at 31 December 2009 2009 m UnalloAsset cated manageto a Total ment segment Intra- 31 Dec Insurance operations insurance operacentral group 2009 UK US Asia operations operaeliminaGroup By operating segment D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 80 80 1,230 1,310 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 127 3,092 822 4,041 8 4,049 H1 Total 127 3,092 902 4,121 1,238 5,359 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 124 124 124 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 9 97 106 106 H2 Total 133 97 230 230 Total 260 3,092 999 4,351 1,238 5,589 H4 Deferred tax assets 292 1,944 132 2,368 132 208 2,708 H3-H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 3,074 1,404 880 5,358 718 4,393 5,044 5,425 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 10,861 33 11 10,905 10,905 Investments accounted for using the equity method 426 6 Financial investments: note c Loans 1,815 4,319 1,207 7,341 1,413 8,754 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 37,051 20,984 11,182 69,217 137 69,354 note c Debt securities 67,772 22,831 9,984 100,587 1,164 101,751 Other investments 3,630 955 258 4,843 113 176 5,132 Deposits 11,557 454 746 12,757 63 12,820 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 132,690 49,576 23,390 205,656 2,890 176 208,722 H9 Properties held for sale 33 3 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,265 340 837 3,442 970 895 5,307 Total assets 138,581 56,359 26,238 221,178 5,948 5,672 5,044 227,754 153 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B6: Group statement of financial position continued 2009 m Unallocated to a Total Asset segment Intra- 31 Dec Insurance operations insurance managecentral group 2009 UK US Asia operament operaeliminaGroup By operating segment D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 1,939 3,011 1,462 6,412 1,659 1,800 6,271 Minority interests 28 1 29 3 32 Total equity 1,967 3,011 1,463 6,441 1,662 1,800 6,303 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 77,655 46,346 21,712 145,713 145,713 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary G1 participation features 24,780 100 24,880 24,880 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary G1 participation features 13,794 1,965 46 15,805 15,805 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK D2fii, H12 regulated with-profits funds 9,966 53 10,019 10,019 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus note d of with-profits funds 126,195 48,311 21,911 196,417 196,417 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed H13 operations: Subordinated debt 2,691 2,691 Other 154 154 549 703 Total 154 154 3,240 3,394 Operational borrowings attributable G1, H13 to shareholder financed operations 158 203 210 571 142 2,038 2,751 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 1,284 1,284 1,284 G1, H4, H14, H15 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,108 1,374 3,482 3,482 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,534 47 818 3,399 410 3,809 Deferred tax liabilities 1,606 1,858 384 3,848 5 19 3,872 Current tax liabilities 426 89 85 600 35 580 1,215 Accruals and deferred income 271 105 376 209 9 594 Other creditors 726 532 760 2,018 3,292 1,346 5,044 1,612 Provisions 406 10 50 466 127 50 643 Derivative liabilities 709 461 146 1,316 49 136 1,501 Other liabilities 191 309 306 806 17 54 877 Total 8,977 4,680 2,654 16,311 4,144 2,194 5,044 17,605 Total liabilities 136,614 53,348 24,775 214,737 4,286 7,472 5,044 221,451 Total equity and liabilities 138,581 56,359 26,238 221,178 5,948 5,672 5,044 227,754 154 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B ii Position at 31 December 2008 2008 m Unallocated to a Total Asset segment Intra- 31 Dec Insurance operations insurance managecentral group 2008 UK US Asia operament operaeliminaGroup By operating segment D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 111 111 1,230 1,341 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 134 3,962 1,247 5,343 6 5,349 H1 Total 134 3,962 1,358 5,454 1,236 6,690 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 174 174 174 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 13 113 126 126 H2 Total 187 113 300 300 Total 321 3,962 1,471 5,754 1,236 6,990 H4 Deferred tax assets 513 1,969 101 2,583 160 143 2,886 H3-H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 4,962 1,819 1,416 8,197 135 3,553 5,608 6,277 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 11,959 13 20 11,992 11,992 Investments accounted for using the equity method 10 10 Financial investments: note c Loans 1,902 5,121 1,705 8,728 1,763 10,491 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 38,880 15,142 8,077 62,099 23 62,122 note c Debt securities 58,871 24,249 11,113 94,233 991 95,224 Other investments 4,160 1,256 144 5,560 462 279 6,301 Deposits 6,090 390 750 7,230 64 7,294 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 121,862 46,171 21,809 189,842 3,303 289 193,434 H9 Properties held for sale H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,571 246 1,501 4,318 1,472 165 5,955 Total assets 130,229 54,167 26,298 210,694 6,306 4,150 5,608 215,542 155 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B6: Group statement of financial position continued 2008 m Unallocated to a Total Asset segment Intra- 31 Dec Insurance operations insurance managecentral group 2008 UK US Asia operament operaeliminaGroup By business segment D2 D3 D4 tions E2 tions tions total Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 1,655 1,698 2,167 5,520 1,642 2,104 5,058 Minority interests 47 7 54 1 55 Total equity 1,702 1,698 2,174 5,574 1,643 2,104 5,113 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 72,756 42,476 20,798 136,030 136,030 Investment contract liabilities with G1 discretionary participation features 23,367 79 23,446 23,446 Investment contract liabilities without G1 discretionary participation features 11,584 2,885 32 14,501 14,501 Unallocated surplus of with-profits D2fii, H12 funds 8,254 160 8,414 8,414 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated note d surplus of with-profits funds 115,961 45,361 21,069 182,391 182,391 Core structural borrowings of shareholderH13 financed operations: Subordinated debt 1,987 1,987 Other 173 173 798 971 Total 173 173 2,785 2,958 Operational borrowings attributable G1, H13 to shareholder-financed operations 54 511 130 695 4 1,278 1,977 Borrowings attributable to with-profits G1, H13 funds 1,308 1,308 1,308 G1, H4, H14, H15 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,251 3,321 5,572 5,572 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,536 88 1,154 2,778 1,065 3,843 Deferred tax liabilities 1,421 1,337 441 3,199 11 19 3,229 Current tax liabilities 127 76 203 40 599 842 Accruals and deferred income 265 130 395 205 30 630 Other creditors 1,619 529 796 2,944 2,898 1,262 5,608 1,496 Provisions 267 23 37 327 97 37 461 Derivative liabilities 3,401 863 32 4,296 292 244 4,832 Other liabilities 317 263 259 839 51 890 Total 11,204 6,424 2,925 20,553 4,659 2,191 5,608 21,795 Total liabilities 128,527 52,469 24,124 205,120 4,663 6,254 5,608 210,429 Total equity and liabilities 130,229 54,167 26,298 210,694 6,306 4,150 5,608 215,542 156 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B b Group statement of financial position by business type 2009 m 2008 m Shareholder-backed business UnalloAsset cated Unitmanageto a linked ment segment Intra- 31 Dec 31 Dec Particiand Nonoperacentral group 2009 2008 pating variable linked tions operaeliminaGroup Group By business type funds annuity business E2 tions tions total total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 80 1,230 1,310 1,341 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 4,041 8 4,049 5,349 H1 Total 4,121 1,238 5,359 6,690 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 124 124 174 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 106 106 126 H2 Total 230 230 300 Total 230 4,121 1,238 5,589 6,990 H4 Deferred tax assets 156 2,212 132 208 2,708 2,886 H3-H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 2,017 630 2,711 718 4,393 5,044 5,425 6,277 Investment of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 8,759 662 1,484 10,905 11,992 Investments accounted for using the equity method 66 10 Financial investments: note c Loans 1,887 27 5,427 1,413 8,754 10,491 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 29,962 38,620 635 137 69,354 62,122 note c Debt securities 47,327 8,848 44,412 1,164 101,751 95,224 Other investments 3,448 110 1,285 113 176 5,132 6,301 Deposits 9,638 746 2,373 63 12,820 7,294 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 101,021 49,013 55,622 2,890 176 208,722 193,434 H9 Properties held for sale 33 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 1,421 1,174 847 970 895 5,307 5,955 Total assets 104,845 50,817 65,516 5,948 5,672 5,044 227,754 215,542 157 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B6: Group statement of financial position continued 2009 m 2008 m Shareholder-backed business UnalloAsset cated Unitmanageto a linked ment segment Intra- 31 Dec 31 Dec Particiand Nonoperacentral group 2009 2008 pating variable linked tions operaeliminaGroup Group By business type funds annuity business E2 tions tions total total Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 6,412 1,659 1,800 6,271 5,058 Minority interests 28 1 3 32 55 Total equity 28 6,413 1,662 1,800 6,303 5,113 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 86,337 49,391 50,670 186,398 173,977 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions D2fii, H12 for UK regulated with-profits funds 10,019 10,019 8,414 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus note d of with-profits funds 96,356 49,391 50,670 196,417 182,391 Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations: Subordinated debt 2,691 2,691 1,987 Other 154 549 703 971 Total 154 3,240 3,394 2,958 Operational borrowings attributable G1, H13 to shareholder-financed operations 571 142 2,038 2,751 1,977 G1, H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 1,284 1,284 1,308 Deferred tax liabilities 1,420 12 2,416 5 19 3,872 3,229 Other non-insurance liabilities 5,757 1,414 5,292 4,139 2,175 5,044 13,733 18,566 Total liabilities 104,817 50,817 59,103 4,286 7,472 5,044 221,451 210,429 Total equity and liabilities 104,845 50,817 65,516 5,948 5,672 5,044 227,754 215,542 158 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B c Debt securities and loans i Information on the credit risks of debt securities 2009 m 2008 m Total Asset Insurance operations insurance manageGroup Group UK US Asia operations ment total total S&P AAA 16,091 3,287 2,259 21,637 469 22,106 27,276 S&P AA to AA- 6,472 846 1,594 8,912 148 9,060 10,885 S&P A to A- 19,693 5,192 1,496 26,381 468 26,849 22,300 S&P BBB to BBB- 12,183 7,659 682 20,524 57 20,581 15,392 S&P Other 2,667 895 917 4,479 4,479 2,607 57,106 17,879 6,948 81,933 1,142 83,075 78,460 Moodys Aaa 463 273 134 870 870 1,657 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 276 43 349 668 19 687 1,056 Moodys A1 to A3 801 32 309 1,142 2 1,144 1,187 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 8156440 919 919 614 Moodys Other 339 57 15 411 411 307 2,694 469 847 4,010 21 4,031 4,821 Implicit ratings of RMBS based on NAIC valuations see below NAIC 1 747 747 747 NAIC 2 105 105 105 NAIC 3-6 473 473 473 1,325 1,325 1,325 Fitch 1,022 281 39 1,342 1,342 1,065 Other 6,950 2,877 2,150 11,977 1 11,978 10,878 Total debt securities 67,772 22,831 9,984 100,587 1,164 101,751 95,224 In the table above, with the exception in 2009 of residential mortgage-backed securities within Jackson, Standard & Poors S&P ratings have been used where available.
For securities where S&P ratings are not immediately available, those produced by Moodys and then Fitch have been used as an alternative.
During 2009, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners in the US revised the regulatory ratings process for more than 20,000 residential mortgage-backed securities.
The table above includes these securities, held by Jackson, using the regulatory ratings levels established by an external third party PIMCO.
Notes D2 c, D3 c, D4 c and E2 provide further details on the credit risks of debt securities by segment.
ii Group exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities The Groups exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities which comprise residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS, CDO funds and other asset-backed securities ABS, at 31 December 2009 is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Shareholder-backed operations: note i UK insurance operations 2,044 1,075 note ii US insurance operations 6,376 7,464 note iii Asian insurance operations 59 15 note iv Other operations 326 407 8,805 8,961 With-profits operations: note i UK insurance operations 6,451 4,977 note iii Asian insurance operations 378 328 6,829 5,305 Total 15,634 14,266 159 Notes on the Group financial statements B: Summary of results continued B6: Group statement of financial position continued i UK insurance operations The UK insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2009 comprises: 2009 m 2008 m Shareholder-backed business 2009: 29% AAA, 24% AA 2,044 1,075 With-profits operations 2009: 33% AAA, 14% AA 6,451 4,977 Total 8,495 6,052 All of the 2,044 million 2008: 1,075 million exposure of the shareholder-backed business relates to the UK market, primarilyto investments held by PRIL.
4,695 million of the 6,451 million 2008: 2,721 million of the 4,977 million exposure of the with-profits operations relates to exposure to the UK market while the remaining 1,756 million 2008: 2,256 million relates to exposure to the US market.
ii US insurance operations The US insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2009 comprises: 2009 m 2008 m RMBS : Sub-prime 2009: 76% AAA, 1% AA 194 291 Alt-A 2009: 24% AAA, 5% AA 443 646 Prime 2009: 82% AAA, 4% AA 2,679 3,572 CMBS 2009: 46% AAA, 14% AA 2,104 1,869 CDO funds 2009: 29% AAA, 10% AA, including 3 million exposure to sub-prime 79 320 Other ABS 2009: 25% AAA, 18% AA, including nil exposure to sub-prime 877 766 Total 6,376 7,464 RMBS ratings refer to the rating implicit within NAIC risk-based capital valuation see note c i.
Including the Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
Further details on Jacksons RMBS sub-prime and Alt-A securities are given in note D3 c. iii Asian insurance operations The Asian insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities is primarily held by the with-profits operations.
The 378 million 2008: 328 million asset-backed securities exposure of the Asian with-profits operations comprises: 2009 m 2008 m RMBS all without sub-prime exposure 46 CMBS 91 88 CDO funds and other ABS 287 194 Total 378 328 The 378 million 2008: 328 million includes 228 million 2008: 259 million held by investment funds consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for those funds and includes an amount not owned by the Group with a corresponding liability of 61 million 2008: 32 million on the statement of financial position for net asset value attributable to external unit-holders in respect of these funds, which are non-recourse to the Group.
Of the 378 million, 72 per cent 2008: 328 million, 70 per cent are investment graded by Standard & Poors.
iv Other operations Other operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2009 is held by Prudential Capital and comprises: 2009 m 2008 m RMBS: Prime 2009: 92% AAA, 8% AA 91 106 CMBS 2009: 48% AAA, 18% AA 193 230 CDO funds and other ABS 42 71 Total 326 407 iii Loans Information on the credit quality of the portfolio of loans, which almost wholly is for amounts which are neither past due or impaired is shown in notes D2, D3, D4 and E2.
Details of allowances for loans, losses and amounts past due are shown in notes G1 and G2.
No additional analysis is provided of the element of loans and receivables that were neither past due nor impaired from those of the total portfolio on the grounds of the immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired element and the total portfolio.
160 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B d Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of the Group from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Total Insurance operations insurance UK US Asia operations m m m m At 1 January 2008 138,290 34,848 17,179 190,317 Premiums  Surrenders 4,281 3,852 1,191 9,324 Maturities Deaths 8,324 564 354 9,242 Net cash flows 3,233 2,312 2,617 1,696 Shareholders transfers post tax 284 23 307 Investment-related items and other movements 16,331 4,552 4,293 25,176 Foreign exchange translation differences 2,481 12,753 5,589 15,861 At 31 December 2008 1 January 2009 115,961 45,361 21,069 182,391 Premiums 6,867 9,177 3,807 19,851 Surrenders 3,971 3,255 1,201 8,427 Maturities Deaths 7,239 733 342 8,314 Net cash flows 4,343 5,189 2,264 3,110 Shareholders transfers post tax 202 20 222 Changes in reserving basis in Malaysia 63 63 Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 46 4 50 Investment-related items and other movements 14,118 2,986 4,242 21,346 Foreign exchange translation differences 707 5,225 2,069 6,587 Disposal of Taiwan agency business 3,508 3,508 At 31 December 2009 126,195 48,311 21,911 196,417 The items above represent the amount attributable to changes in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as a result of each of the components listed.
Premiums, surrenders and maturities deaths represent the amounts impacting policyholder liabilities and may not represent the total cash paid received for example, premiums are net of any deductions to cover acquisition costs.
161 Notes on the Group financial statements C: Group risk management a Overview As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups business is the managed acceptance of risk.
The control procedures and systems established within the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
The Groups internal control processes are detailed in the Group Governance Manual.
This is supported by the Group risk framework, which provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management.
Where appropriate, more detailed policies and procedures have been developed at Group and or business unit levels.
These include Group-wide mandatory policies on certain operational risks, including: health, safety, fraud, money laundering, bribery, business continuity, information security and operational security, and policies on certain financial risks.
Additional guidelines are provided for some aspects of actuarial and financial activity.
Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The risk governance framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence: Risk management: risk oversight and independent assurance.
Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management and risk control lies with the Board, the Group Chief Executive and the chief executives of each business unit.
Risk oversight is provided by Group-level risk committees, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
Independent assurance on the Groups and business unit internal control and risk management systems is provided by Group-wide Internal Audit reporting to the Group and business unit audit committees.
The Groups risk reporting framework forms an important part of the Groups business planning process.
Business units review their risks as part of the annual preparation of their business plans and review opportunities and risks against business objectives regularly with Group executive management.
Additional information on the Groups risk framework is included in the risk and capital management section of the Groups business review.
The management of the risk attached to the Groups financial instruments and insurance liabilities, together with the interrelationship with the management of capital may be summarised in the following sections.
b Group risk appetite The Group risk appetite framework sets out the Groups tolerance to risk management and return optimisation.
The Group defines and monitors aggregate risk limits for its earnings volatility and its capital requirements based on financial and non-financial stresses.
i Earnings volatility: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the volatility of earnings is consistent with stakeholder expectations, b the Group has adequate earnings and cash flows to service debt and expected dividends and c that earnings and cash flows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with the Groups funding strategies.
The two measures used currently are European Embedded Value EEV operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Additionally, EEV and IFRS total profits are also assessed.
ii Capital requirements: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the Group meets the internal economic capital requirements at all times, b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its business objectives and c supervisory intervention is avoided.
The two measures used are EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital requirements and internal economic capital requirements.
In addition we also monitor capital requirements on a local statutory basis.
Business units must establish suitable market, credit, underwriting and liquidity limits that maintain financial risk exposures within the defined Group risk appetite.
The Groups risk appetite framework forms an integral part of its annual business planning cycle.
Throughout the year, the Group risk function monitors the Groups risk profile against the agreed limits.
Using submissions from business units, Group risk function calculates the Groups aggregated position allowing for diversification effects between business units relative to the limits determined by the risk appetite statements.
Market risk is managed such that as conditions evolve the risk profile is maintained within risk appetite in addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk, the Group sets counterparty risk limits at Group level.
Limits on the total Group-wide exposures to a single counterparty are specified within different credit rating categories.
Actual exposures are monitored against these limits on a monthly basis.
c Risk mitigation and hedging The Group manages its actual risk profile against its tolerance of risk.
To do this, the Group maintains risk registers that include details of the identified risks and of the controls and mitigating actions employed in managing them.
Any mitigation strategies involving large transactions, such as a material derivative transaction, are subject to scrutiny at Group level before implementation.
The Group uses a range of risk management and mitigation strategies.
The most important of these include: adjusting asset portfolios to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or overweight counterparty exposures : using derivatives to hedge market risks: implementing reinsurance programmes to limit insurance risk: implementing corporate insurance programmes to limit the impact of operational risks: and revising business plans where appropriate.
162 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C i Use of derivatives In the UK and Asia, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce equity and credit risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to facilitate efficient investment management.
In the US, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and to match liabilities under annuity policies, and for certain equity-based product management activities.
Further details of the Groups use of derivatives are explained in note G3.
ii Asset liability management Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the differing types of liabilities of each business unit.
Stochastic asset liability modelling is carried out locally by business units to perform dynamic solvency testing and assess capital requirements.
Reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency analysis is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the US, the UK and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation and policyholder behaviour, under a large number of possible scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
This allows the identification of which extreme scenarios will have the most adverse effects and what the best estimate outcome may be.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, are then set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
This differs from a deterministic model, which would only consider the results from one carefully selected scenario.
For businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of fixed income securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits and the capital position from changing interest rates.
In the UK, the cash flow analysis is used in Prudentials annuity business while, in the US, it is used for its interest-sensitive and fixed index annuities and stable value products such as Guaranteed Investment Contracts GICs.
Perfect matching is not possible, for example because of the nature of the liabilities which might include guaranteed surrender values and options for prepayment contained in the assets or the unavailability of assets with a sufficiently long duration.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the expected future returns on its investments under different scenarios that best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time, while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
All of Prudentials investments are held either for risk management or investment purposes.
This is because almost all of the investments support policyholder or customer liabilities of one form or another.
Any assets that Prudential holds centrally that are not supporting customer liabilities are predominantly invested in short-term fixed income and fixed maturity securities.
The Group has contingency plans in place for a range of operational risk scenarios, including incident management and business continuity plans.
As a contingency plan for liquidity risk, the Group has arranged access to committed revolving credit facilities and committed securities lending facilities.
d Risk exposures The Group publishes separately within Additional Information of its Group Annual Report a section on key risk factors, which discusses inherent risks in the business and trading environment.
i Market risks Market risk is the risk that arises from adverse changes in the value of, or income from, assets and changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
Equity and interest rate risk Prudential faces equity risk and interest rate risk because most of its assets are investments that are either equity type investments and subject to equity price risk, or bonds, mortgages or cash deposits, the values of which are subject to interest rate risk.
The amount of risk borne by Prudentials shareholders depends on the extent to which its customers share the investment risk through the structure of Prudentials products.
The split of Prudentials investments between equity investments and interest-sensitive instruments depends principally on the type of liabilities supported by those investments and the amount of capital Prudential has available.
The nature of some liabilities allows Prudential to invest a substantial portion of its investment funds in equity and property investments that Prudential believes produce greater returns over the long term.
On the other hand Prudential has some liabilities that contain guaranteed returns and allow instant access for example, interest-sensitive fixed annuities and immediate annuities, which generally will be supported by fixed income investments.
Foreign exchange risk Prudential faces foreign exchange risk, primarily because its presentation currency is pounds sterling, whereas approximately 62 per cent of Prudentials operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns, as described in note B1, for the year ended 31 December 2009, came from US and Asian operations.
The exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed although its impact is reduced by interest payments on foreign currency borrowings and by the adoption of average exchange rates for the translation of foreign currency revenues.
163 Notes on the Group financial statements C: Group risk management continued d Risk exposures continued Approximately 77 per cent of the Groups IFRS basis shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 arose in Prudentials US and Asian operations 2008: approximately 83 per cent.
To mitigate the exposure of the US component there are US$1.55 billion of borrowings held centrally, which are formally designated as net investment hedges at 31 December 2009.
Net of the currency position arising from these borrowings some 52 per cent of the Groups shareholders funds are represented by net assets in currencies other than sterling.
Additional details on the market risks exposures of the UK, US and Asian insurance operations are provided in notes D2, D3 and D4, respectively.
ii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss to the Group if another party fails to perform its obligations, or fails to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk is the Groups most significant financial risk.
Some of Prudentials businesses, in particular Jackson, the PAC with-profits fund and Prudentials UK pension annuity business hold large amounts of interest-sensitive investments that contain credit risk on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These expected losses are considered when Prudential determines the crediting rates, deposit rates and premium rates for the products that will be supported by these assets.
The key shareholder business exposed to credit risks is Jackson.
Certain over-the-counter derivatives contain a credit risk element that is controlled through evaluation of collateral agreements and master netting agreements on interest rate and currency swaps.
Prudential is also exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
Further analysis of the credit quality of debt securities held by the Group is shown in note B6.
Additional details on the credit quality of the debt security portfolios of UK, US and Asian insurance operations are shown in notes D2, D3 and D4, respectively.
iii Liquidity risk The assets of insurers are in general relatively liquid whilst liabilities to policyholders are mainly illiquid.
Accordingly, for insurers, the focus is on parent capital and liquidity measures.
Prudential regularly monitors and analyses its liquidity position at the Group level and performs stress tests of this position.
For Prudential, liquidity risk is the risk that though solvent on a statement of financial position basis, the Group either does not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The liquidity of the Group is monitored on a monthly basis by comparing the predicted cash needs of the Group centre to meet corporate and financing costs net of expected dividends from the business units to the liquid resources available to it.
These liquid resources include cash held and cash that could be raised through internal resources for example by repoing unencumbered bonds.
Base case and stress scenarios are reported monthly to the Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee.
The main stress is the assumption that the external financing markets are completely closed to Prudential, so no new external funding can be obtained, and existing funding cannot be rolled over.
In addition, Group liquidity risk reports are prepared regularly.
In summary, these address the sufficiency of external back-up lines, internal sources of liquidity, and monitor how external liabilities and other commitments over the next 12 months compare with internal and external sources.
Currently, the parent company has significant internal resources of liquidity which are sufficient to meet all of its foreseeable future needs without having to utilise external funding.
The Group maintains committed facilities that include 1.4 billion of undrawn syndicated committed banking facility and two 100 million bi-lateral facilities on the same terms, maturing in 2011 and 2012 respectively, as well as a committed 500 million annually renewable securities lending back-up facility.
iv Insurance risk Insurance risk is the inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
This includes adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the results of its long-term business operations.
In common with other industry participants, the profitability of the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, voluntary discontinuance rates, investment performance, unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expenses.
For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its UK annuity business where, in exchange for their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, for as long as they live.
Prudential conducts extensive research into longevity risk using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudential UK assumes that current rates of mortality continuously improve over time at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI projections as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Prudentials voluntary discontinuance persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each relevant line of business, and any expectations of future persistency.
Where appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship, which is either assumed or historically observed, between persistency and investment returns and the resulting additional risk is allowed for.
v Non-financial risks operational, business environment and strategic risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events.
Business environment risk may arise from exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change the fundamentals that drive the business overall objectives and strategy.
Strategic risk may arise from ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
164 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
Prudential processes a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
Prudential has a significant number of third-party relationships that are important to the distribution and processing of its products, as market counterparties and as business partners.
The Group uses the qualitative and quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures material to the Group to support business decisions, to inform overall levels of capital held and to assess the adequacy of the corporate insurance programme.
e Regulatory capital requirements Regulatory capital requirements apply at an individual company level for the Groups life assurance and asset management business.
These are described in sections D5 and E3 respectively.
In addition, the Group as a whole is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the Insurance Groups Directive IGD as implemented by the FSA.
The IGD pertains to groups whose activities are primarily concentrated in the insurance sector.
Under this test the surplus capital held in each of the regulated subsidiaries is aggregated with the free assets of non-regulated subsidiaries.
From this total Group borrowings are deducted, other than subordinated debt issues which qualify as capital.
No credit for the benefit of diversification is allowed for under this approach.
The test is passed when this aggregate number is positive: a negative result at any point in time is a notifiable breach of UK regulatory requirements.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of Prudentials operations, the application of these requirements to Prudential is complex.
In particular, for many of the Groups Asian operations the assets, liabilities and capital requirements have to be recalculated based on FSA regulations as if the companies were directly subject to FSA regulation.
The FSA has established a structure for determining how much hybrid debt can count as capital which is similar to that used for banks.
It categorises capital as Tier 1 equity and preference shares, Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2.
Up to 15 per cent of Tier 1 capital can be in the form of hybrid debt and is called Innovative Tier 1.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held 1,422 million 2008: 1,059 million of Innovative Tier 1 capital in the form of perpetual securities, nil 2008: nil of Upper Tier 2 and 1,423 million 2008: 1,101 million of Lower Tier 2 capital.
The increase in these amounts arises from the issue in May 2009 of 400 million of subordinated debt Lower Tier 2, the issue in July 2009 of $750 million perpetual subordinated capital securities Innovative Tier 1 and exchange rate movements during 2009.
Further details on these amounts and other Group borrowings are shown in note H13.
At 31 December 2008, Prudential met the requirements of the IGD with 1.5 billion of surplus capital before allowing for the 2008 final dividend.
In addition, during 2009, Prudential met the requirements of the FSA under the IGD.
The IGD position as at 31 December 2009 will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2010 and at the time of preparation of these financial statements the surplus capital under the test was estimated to be around 3.4 billion before allowing for the 2009 final dividend giving a solvency ratio of circa 270 per cent.
The main components of the increase in IGD surplus during 2009 are: net capital generation mainly through operating earnings in-force releases less investment in new business of 1.1 billion: the sale of the Taiwan agency business increasing IGD surplus by 0.8 billion : the hybrid debt issues in May and July increasing IGD surplus by 0.9 billion : an additional recognition of 0.4 billion in respect of part of the shareholders interest in the future transfers from the PAC with-profits fund, recognition of 0.2 billion of future profits in the UK and Hong Kong and other intra-group capital efficiencies of 0.3 billion: offset by dividend payments, external financing costs and other central costs, credit related impacts in the US, impacts from regulatory changes and foreign exchange movements.
Prudentials approach to capital allocation takes into account a range of factors, especially risk adjusted returns on capital, the impact of alternative capital measurement bases accounting, regulatory, economic and ratings agency assessments, tax efficiency and wider strategic objectives.
Prudential optimises capital allocation across the Group by using a consistent set of capital performance metrics across all business units to ensure meaningful comparison.
Capital utilisation, return on capital and new business value creation are measured at a product level.
The use of these capital performance metrics is embedded into our decision-making processes for product launches, product design and product pricing.
Prudentials capital performance metrics are based on economic capital, which provides a realistic and consistent view of our capital requirements across the Group, allowing for diversification benefits.
Economic capital also provides valuable insights into our risk profile and is used both for risk measurement and capital management.
Prudentials detailed understanding of risk adjusted performance allows Prudential to manage proactively its allocation of capital to write new business to maximise risk adjusted value creation.
165 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses D1: Group overview a Products and classification for IFRS reporting The measurement basis of assets and liabilities of long-term business contracts is dependent upon the classification of the contracts under IFRS.
Under IFRS 4, contracts are initially classified as being either insurance contracts, if the level of insurance risk in the contracts is significant, or investment contracts, if the risk is insignificant.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are permitted to be accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
The Group has chosen to adopt this approach.
However, as an improvement to accounting policy, permitted by IFRS 4, the Group has applied the measurement principles for withprofits contracts of UK regulated entities and disclosures of the UK Standard FRS 27 from 1 January 2005.
An explanation of the provisions under FRS 27 is provided in note D2.
Under the previously applied GAAP, UK GAAP, the assets and liabilities of contracts are reported in accordance with the MSB of reporting as set out in the ABI SORP.
The insurance contracts of the Groups shareholder-backed business fall broadly into the following categories: UK insurance operations bulk and individual annuity business, written primarily by Prudential Retirement Income Limited and other categories of non-participating UK business: Jackson fixed and variable annuity business and life insurance: and Prudential Corporation Asia non-participating term, whole life, and unit-linked policies, together with accident and health policies.
Investment contracts Investment contracts are further delineated under IFRS 4 between those with and without discretionary participation features.
For those contracts with discretionary participation features, IFRS 4 also permits the continued application of previously applied GAAP.
The Group has adopted this approach, again subject to the FRS 27 improvement.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract that may diverge from those previously applied.
Contracts of the Group, which are classified as investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, can be summarised as: UK certain unit-linked savings and similar contracts: Jackson GICs and funding agreements minor amounts of annuity certain contracts: and Prudential Corporation Asia minor amounts for a number of small categories of business.
166 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D The accounting for the investment contracts of UK insurance operations and Jacksons GICs and funding agreements are considered in turn below: i Certain UK unit-linked savings and similar contracts Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that it is appropriate to recognise an asset that represents the entitys contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the entity recognises the related revenue.
IAS 18 further reduces the costs potentially capable of deferral to incremental costs only.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
Deferred income reserves These are required to be established under IAS 18 with amortisation over the expected life of the contract.
The majority of the relevant UK contracts are single premium with the initial deferred income reflecting the front-end load i. e. the difference between the premium paid and the amount credited to the unit fund.
Deferred income is amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
The amortisation profile is either on a straight-line basis or, if more appropriate, a further deferral of income recognition is applied.
Sterling reserves Prudent provisions established for possible future expenses not covered by future margins at a policy level reflecting the regulatory approach in the UK are not permitted for those contracts with insignificant insurance risk that are classified as investment contracts.
ii Jackson GICs and funding arrangements Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
The interest rate paid is fixed and established when the contract is issued.
Funding agreements are of a similar nature but the interest rate may be floating, based on a rate linked to an external index.
The US GAAP accounting requirements for such contracts are very similar to those under IFRS on the amortised cost model for liability measurement.
b Concentration of risk i Business accepted The Groups exposure to life assurance risks is well diversified.
This is achieved through the geographical spread of the Groups operations and, within those operations, through a broad mix of product types.
As part of the risk management framework, the Group regularly monitors concentration of risk using a variety of risk monitoring tools including: Scenario testing and sensitivity analysis of the Group capital and profitability metrics involving IGD, Group economic capital, EEV and IFRS help identify concentrations of risks by risk types, products and business units, as well as the benefits of diversification of risks.
An example of the diversification benefits for Prudential is that adverse scenarios do not affect all business units in the same way, providing natural hedges within the Group.
For example, the Groups US business is sensitive to increasing interest rates, whereas, in contrast, several business units in Asia benefit from increasing rates.
Conversely, these Asian business units are sensitive towards low interest rates, whereas certain products in the US benefit from falling interest rates.
The economic capital framework also takes into account situations where factors are correlated, for example the extent of correlation between UK and US economies.
Business units are also required to disclose to the Group risk function all material risks, along with information on their severity and likelihood, and mitigating actions taken or planned.
Credit risk remains one of the largest risk exposures.
This reflects the relative size of exposure in Jackson and the UK shareholder annuities business.
The Group manages concentration of credit risks by setting limits on the maximum exposure to each counterparty based on their credit ratings.
167 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued ii Ceded business The Group cedes certain business to other insurance companies.
Although the ceding of insurance does not relieve the Group of liability to its policyholders, the Group participates in such agreements for the purpose of managing its loss exposure.
The Group evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentration of credit risk from similar geographic regions, activities or economic characteristics of the reinsurers to minimise its exposure from reinsurer insolvencies.
There are no significant concentrations of reinsurance risk.
At 31 December 2009, 98 per cent 2008: 98 per cent of the reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were ceded by the Groups UK and US operations, of which 92 per cent 2008: 93 per cent of the balance were from reinsurers with Standard & Poors rating Aand above.
c Guarantees Notes D2 d, D3 d and D4 d provide details of guarantee features of the Groups life assurance products.
In the UK, guarantees of the with-profits products are valued for accounting purposes on a market consistent basis for 2009 as described in section D2 f ii.
The UK business also has products with guaranteed annuity option features, mostly within SAIF, as described in section D2 d. There is little exposure to financial options and guarantees in the shareholder-backed business of the UK operations.
The US business annuity products have a variety of option and guarantee features as described in Section D3 d. Jacksons derivative programme seeks to manage the exposures as described in Section D3 e. The Groups exposure to guarantees was significantly reduced during 2009 as a result of the disposal of the Taiwan agency business.
d Sensitivity of EEV basis profit and equity for market and other risks The Group prepares supplementary EEV basis financial statements for half yearly and annual publication.
These statements include sensitivity disclosures which are part of the market risk information provided to key management.
The 2009 EEV sensitivity disclosures are shown in note 15 of the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
e Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks i Overview of risks by business unit The financial assets and liabilities attaching to the Groups life assurance business are, to varying degrees, subject to market and insurance risk and other changes of experience assumptions that may have a material effect on IFRS basis profit or loss and equity.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument or, in the case of liabilities of insurance contracts, their carrying value will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, namely: Currency risk: due to changes in foreign exchange rates: interest rate risk: due to changes in market interest rates: and other price risk: due to fluctuations in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
Policyholder liabilities relating to the Groups life assurance businesses are also sensitive to the effects of other changes in experience, or expected future experience, such as for mortality, other insurance risk and lapse risk.
In addition, the profitability of the Groups life assurance businesses and, as described in Section E, asset management business, is indirectly affected by the performance of the assets covering policyholder liabilities and related capital.
Three key points are to be noted, namely: The Groups with-profits and unit-linked funds absorb most market risk attaching to the funds investments.
Except for second order effects, for example on asset management fees and shareholders share of cost of bonuses for with-profits business, shareholder results are not directly affected by market value movements on the assets of these funds: the Groups shareholder results are most sensitive to market risks for assets of shareholder-backed business: and the main exposures of the Groups IFRS basis results to market risk for life assurance operations on investments of shareholder-backed business are for debt securities.
The most significant items for which the IFRS basis shareholders profit or loss and equity for the Groups life assurance business is sensitive to these variables are shown in the following tables.
The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative size of the sensitivity.
168 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D Market and credit risk Type of business Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated Other exposure Insurance and lapse risk UK insurance operations see also section D2 i With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Investment performance Persistency risk to including Prudential Indirect exposure only subject to smoothing future shareholder Annuities Limited through declared bonuses transfers SAIF sub-fund Net neutral direct exposure Asset management fees Indirect exposure only earned by M&G Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Investment performance Persistency risk Indirect exposure only through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Shareholder-backed Credit risk Mortality experience annuity business and assumptions for Interest rate risk for assets longevity in excess of liabilities i. e. representing shareholder capital US insurance operations see also section D3 i All business Currency risk Persistency risk Variable annuity Net effect of market risk arising from incidence of business guarantee features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging programme Fixed index Derivative hedge Incidence of equity annuity business programme to the participation features extent not fully hedged against liability and fund performance Fixed index annuities, Credit risk Spread difference Lapse risk but the Fixed annuities and Interest rate risk between earned rate effects of extreme GIC business and rate credited to events are mitigated policyholders by the use of swaption contracts These risks are reflected in volatile profit or loss and shareholders equity for derivative value movements and impairment losses, and, in addition, for shareholders equity for value movements on fixed income securities classified as available for sale under IAS 39 Asian insurance operations see also section D4 i Mortality and morbidity risk All business Currency risk Persistency risk With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Investment performance Indirect exposure only subject to smoothing through declared bonuses Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Investment performance Indirect exposure only through asset management fees Non-participating business Interest rate and price risk Long-term interest rates 169 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued ii IFRS shareholder results Exposures for market and other risk Key Group exposures The IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for UK insurance operations has high potential sensitivity for changes to longevity assumptions affecting the carrying value of liabilities to policyholders for shareholder-backed annuity business.
In addition, at the total IFRS profit level the result is sensitive to temporary value movements on assets backing IFRS equity.
For Jackson at the level of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, the results are sensitive to market conditions to the extent of income earned on spread-based products and equity-based exposure not mitigated by the equity and interest derivative programmes.
Further information is given below under the US operations section of market and credit risk.
Jacksons derivative programme is used to substantially mitigate equity market risk attaching to its equity-based products and interest rate risk associated with its spread-based products.
Movements in interest rates and credit spreads materially affect the carrying value of derivatives which are used to manage the liabilities to policyholders and backing investment assets of fixed annuity and other general account business.
Combined with the use of US GAAP measurement as grandfathered under IFRS 4 for the asset and liabilities for the insurance contract liabilities, which is largely insensitive to current period market movements, the Jackson total profit i. e. including short-term fluctuations in investment returns is very sensitive to market movements.
In addition to these effects the Jackson IFRS equity is sensitive to the impact of interest rate and credit spread movements on the value of fixed income securities.
Movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are included as movement in equity i. e. outside the income statement.
For Asian operations, the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is mainly affected by the impact of market levels on unit-linked business persistency, and other insurance risk.
At the total IFRS profit level the Asian result is affected by short-term value movements on the asset portfolio for non-linked shareholder-backed business.
M&G profits are affected primarily by movements in the growth in funds under management and by the effect of any impairment on the loan book and fair value movements on debt securities held by Prudential Capital.
Market and credit risk UK insurance operations With-profits business With-profits business Shareholder results of UK with-profits business are sensitive to market risk only through the indirect effect of investment performance on declared policyholder bonuses.
The investment assets of the PAC with-profits fund are subject to market risk.
However, changes in their carrying value, net of related changes to asset-share liabilities of with-profit contracts, affect the level of unallocated surplus of the fund.
As unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability under IFRS, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
The shareholder results of the UK with-profits fund correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses declared on the with-profits business.
This currently corresponds to one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared.
Investment performance is a key driver of bonuses, and hence the shareholders share of cost of bonuses.
Due to the smoothed basis of bonus declaration the sensitivity to investment performance in a single year is low.
However, over multiple periods it is important.
Prudential Annuities Limited PAL PALs business is not with-profits, it writes annuity business.
However, as PAL is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund, changes in the carrying value of PALs assets and liabilities are reflected in the liability for unallocated surplus which as described above, do not affect shareholder results.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced fund in which, apart from asset management fees, shareholders have no interest.
Accordingly, the Groups IFRS profit and equity are insensitive to the direct effects of market risk attaching to SAIFs assets and liabilities.
Shareholder-backed business The factors that may significantly affect the IFRS results of UK shareholder-backed business are the mortality experience and assumptions and credit risk attaching to the annuity business of Prudential Retirement Income Limited and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL The assets covering PRILs liabilities are principally debt securities and other investments that are held to match the expected duration and payment characteristics of the policyholder liabilities.
These liabilities are valued for IFRS reporting purposes by applying discount rates that reflect the market rates of return attaching to the covering assets.
170 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D Except to the extent of any asset liability duration mismatch which is reviewed regularly, and exposure to credit risk, the sensitivity of the Groups results to market risk for movements in the carrying value of PRILs liabilities and covering assets is broadly neutral on a net basis.
The main market risk sensitivity for PRIL arises from interest rate risk on the debt securities which substantially represent IFRS equity.
This equity comprises the net assets held within the long-term fund of the company that cover regulatory basis liabilities that are not recognised for IFRS reporting purposes, for example contingency reserves, and shareholder capital held outside the long-term fund.
The principal items affecting the IFRS results for PRIL are mortality experience and assumptions, and credit risk.
PAC non-profit sub-fund The PAC non-profit sub-fund principally comprises annuity business previously written by Scottish Amicable Life, credit life, unitlinked and other non-participating business.
The financial assets covering the liabilities for those types of business are subject to market risk.
However, for the annuity business the same considerations as described above for PRIL apply, whilst the liabilities of the unit-linked business change in line with the matching linked assets.
Other liabilities of the PAC non-profit sub-fund are broadly insensitive to market risk.
Other shareholder-backed unit-linked business Due to the matching of policyholder liabilities to attaching asset value movements, the UK unit-linked business is not directly affected by market or credit risk.
The principal factor affecting the IFRS results is investment performance through asset management fees.
US insurance operations Jackson The IFRS basis results of Jackson are highly sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities other than variable annuity business segregated in the separate accounts.
Invested assets covering liabilities other than the separate accounts and related capital comprise principally debt securities classified as available-for-sale.
Value movements for these securities are reflected as movements in shareholders equity through the statement of comprehensive income.
Other invested assets and derivatives are carried at fair value with the value movements reflected in the income statement.
By contrast, the IFRS insurance liabilities for business written by Jackson, by the application of grandfathered GAAP under IFRS 4, are measured on US GAAP bases which with the exception of certain items covered by the equity hedging programme, are generally insensitive to temporary changes in market conditions or the short-term returns on the attaching asset portfolios.
These differences in carrying value of debt securities, other invested assets, derivatives and insurance liabilities give rise to potentially significant volatility in the IFRS income statement and shareholders equity.
As with other shareholder-backed business the profit or loss for Jackson is presented in the Groups segmental analysis of profit as described in note B1, by distinguishing the result for the year between an operating result based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In this way the most significant direct effect of market changes that have taken place to the Jackson result are separately identified.
Excluding these short-term effects, the factors that most significantly affect the Jackson IFRS operating result based on long-term investment returns are: Variable annuity business net effect of market risk arising from the incidence and valuation of guarantee features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging performance.
The net effect of market risk in Jacksons guarantees and derivatives included in operating result excludes the impact of changes in market implied volatility.
Further movements in reserves for guarantees reflected in operating result are also based on a discount rate using a long-term average Corporate AA credit curve instead of the actual Corporate AA credit curve at the valuation date.
The derivative hedging programme is designed to be economically effective and there can be some accounting mis-matches for those guarantee features which are not economically valued under grandfathered US GAAP, for example guaranteed minimum death benefits.
These accounting mis-matches are magnified in periods of market dislocation: fixed annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders: and fixed index annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders and incidence of equity index participation features, net of the related hedging performance.
In addition, the total profit for Jackson is affected by the level of impairment losses on the debt securities portfolios, short-term value movements on derivatives held to manage the fixed annuity and other general account business, other temporary value movements on portfolio investments classified as fair value through profit and loss, and those arising on revaluing the embedded derivative components of variable annuity liabilities for the effects of short-term movements in AA corporate bond rate curves and equity volatility levels.
171 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D1: Group overview continued Asian insurance operations For Asian with-profits business the same features apply as described above for UK with-profits business.
Similarly, as for other parts of the Group, for unit-linked business the main factor affecting IFRS basis results is investment performance through asset management fees.
The sensitivity of the IFRS basis results of the Groups Asian operations to market risk is primarily restricted to the non-participating business.
This sensitivity is primarily reflected through the volatility of asset returns coupled with the fact that the accounting carrying value of liabilities to policyholders are only partially sensitive to changed market conditions.
As for UK shareholder-backed operations and Jackson, the IFRS profit is distinguished in the Groups segmental analysis so as to distinguish operating profits based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Insurance and lapse risk The features described above cover the main sensitivities of IFRS profit and loss and equity for market, insurance and credit risk.
Lapse and longevity risk may also be a key determination of IFRS basis results with variable impacts.
In the UK, adverse persistency experience can affect the level of profitability from with-profits and unit-linked business.
For withprofits business in any given year, the amount represented by the shareholders share of cost of bonus may only be marginally affected.
However, altered persistency trends may affect future expected shareholder transfers.
By contrast, Group IFRS operating profit is particularly sensitive to longevity outlook that results in changes of assumption for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
Jackson is sensitive to lapse risk.
However, Jackson uses swaption derivatives to ameliorate the effect of a sharp rise in interest rates, which would be the most likely cause of a sudden change in policyholder behaviour.
In Asia adverse persistency experience can impact the IFRS profitability of certain business written in the region.
This risk is managed at a business unit level through monthly monitoring of experience and the implementation of management actions as necessary.
These actions could include product enhancements, increased management focus on premium collection as well as other customer retention efforts.
The potential financial impact of lapses is often mitigated through the specific features of the products, e. g. surrender charges.
iii Impact of diversification on risk exposure The Group enjoys significant diversification benefits.
This arises because not all risk scenarios will happen at the same time and across all geographic regions.
The Group tests the sensitivities of results to different correlation factors such as: Correlation across geographic regions Financial risk factors Non-financial risk factors.
Correlation across risk factors Longevity risk Expenses Persistency Other risks.
The effect of Group diversification is to significantly reduce the aggregate standalone volatility risk to IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The effect is almost wholly explained by the correlations across risk types, in particular longevity risk.
f Duration of liabilities Under the terms of the Groups contracts, as for life assurance contracts generally, the contractual maturity date is the earlier of the end of the contract term, death, other insurable events or surrender.
The Group has therefore chosen to provide details of liability duration that reflect the actuarially determined best estimate of the likely incidence of these factors on contract duration.
Details are shown in sections D2 j, D3 j and D4 j.
In the years 2005 to 2009, claims paid on the Groups life assurance contracts including those classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 ranged from 13 billion to 19 billion.
Indicatively, it is to be expected that, of the Groups policyholder liabilities excluding unallocated surplus at 31 December 2009 of 186.4 billion, the amounts likely to be paid in 2010 will be of a similar magnitude.
172 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D D2: UK insurance operations a Summary statement of financial position In order to explain the different types of UK business and fund structure, the statement of financial position of the UK insurance operations may be analysed by the assets and liabilities of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF, unit-linked assets and liabilities and annuity principally PRIL and other business.
The assets and liabilities of these funds and subsidiaries are shown in the table below.
PAC with-profits fund note i Other funds and subsidiaries UK insurance Scottish Unitoperations Amicable Excluding Prudential linked Annuity Insurance Prudential Annuities assets and other 2009 2008 Fund Annuities Limited Total and long-term note ii Limited note iii note iv liabilities business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 127 127 127 134 127 127 127 134 Intangible assets attributable to PAC with-profits fund: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 124 124 124 174 Deferred acquisition costs 2 7 7 9 13 2 131 131 133 187 Total 2 131 131 127 127 260 321 Deferred tax assets 2 84 70 154 136 136 292 513 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 419 1,020 344 1,364 547 744 1,291 3,074 4,962 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 710 7,330 719 8,049 662 1,440 2,102 10,861 11,959 Investments accounted for using the equity method 4 4 4 Financial investments: note v Loans 138 825 143 968 709 709 1,815 1,902 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 2,994 23,062 215 23,277 10,757 23 10,780 37,051 38,880 note D2c Debt securities 4,797 25,358 12,184 37,542 6,386 19,047 25,433 67,772 58,871 note vi Other investments 340 2,879 156 3,035 66 189 255 3,630 4,160 Deposits 869 8,378 377 8,755 550 1,383 1,933 11,557 6,090 Total investments 9,848 67,832 13,794 81,626 18,421 22,795 41,216 132,690 121,862 Cash and cash equivalents 214 948 34 982 939 130 1,069 2,265 2,571 Total assets 10,485 70,015 14,242 84,257 19,907 23,932 43,839 138,581 130,229 173 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued PAC with-profits fund note i Other funds and subsidiaries UK insurance Scottish Unitoperations Amicable Excluding Prudential linked Annuity Insurance Prudential Annuities assets and other 2009 2008 Fund Annuities Limited Total and long-term note ii Limited note iii note iv liabilities business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,939 1,939 1,939 1,655 Minority interests 28 28 28 47 Total equity 28 28 1,939 1,939 1,967 1,702 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 9,972 55,588 11,969 67,557 19,035 19,665 38,700 116,229 107,707 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic provisions for UK regulated with-profits funds 8,421 1,545 9,966 9,966 8,254 Total 9,972 64,009 13,514 77,523 19,035 19,665 38,700 126,195 115,961 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 158 158 158 54 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 118 1,166 1,166 1,284 1,308 Deferred tax liabilities 66 807 281 1,088 452 452 1,606 1,421 Other non-insurance liabilities 329 4,005 447 4,452 872 1,718 2,590 7,371 9,783 Total liabilities 10,485 69,987 14,242 84,229 19,907 21,993 41,900 136,614 128,527 Total equity and liabilities 10,485 70,015 14,242 84,257 19,907 23,932 43,839 138,581 130,229 Notes i For the purposes of this table and subsequent explanation, references to the PAC WPSF also include, for convenience, the amounts attaching to the Defined Charges Participating Sub-fund, which includes the with-profits annuity business transferred to Prudential from the Equitable Life Assurance Society on 1 December 2007 with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
Profits to shareholders on this with-profits annuity business emerge on a charges less expenses basis and policyholders are entitled to 100 per cent of the investment earnings.
ii SAIF is a separate sub-fund within the PAC long-term business fund.
iii Wholly-owned subsidiary of the PAC WPSF that writes annuity business.
iv Excluding policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
v The loans of the Groups UK insurance operations of 1,815 million 2008: 1,902 million comprise loans held by the PAC WPSF of 1,106 million 2008: 1,345 million and loans held by shareholder-backed business of 709 million 2008: 557 million.
The loans held by the PAC WPSF comprise mortgage loans of 145 million, policy loans of 24 million and other loans of 937 million 2008: 150 million, 29 million and 1,166 million respectively.
The mortgage loans are collateralised by properties.
Other loans held by the PAC with-profits fund are all commercial loans and comprise mainly syndicated loans.
The loans held by the UK shareholder-backed business comprise mortgage loans collateralised by properties of 702 million 2008: 551 million and other loans of 7 million 2008: 6 million.
174 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D vi Other investments comprise: 2009 2008 m m note G3 Derivative assets 910 1,326 Partnerships in investment pools and other 2,720 2,834 3,630 4,160 In the UK, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce equity and credit risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to facilitate efficient portfolio management.
After derivative liabilities of 709 million 2008: 3,401 million, which are also included in the statement of financial position, the overall derivative position was a net asset of 201 million 2008: net liability of 2,075 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise mainly investments held by the PAC with-profits fund.
These investments are primarily venture fund investments and investment in property funds and limited partnerships.
b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of UK insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Other funds and subsidiaries SAIF Annuity and PAC and other UK insurance with-profits Unit-linked long-term operations sub-fund liabilities business Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 103,772 18,977 15,541 138,290 Premiums 3,1572,4353,7809,372 Surrenders 2,336 1,838 107 4,281 Maturities Deaths 6,309 666 1,349 8,324 note a Net cash flows 5,488 69 2,324 3,233 Shareholders transfers post tax 284 284 Switches 360 360 note D2h note c Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 447 447 note b Investment-related items and other movements 13,049 2,952 777 16,778 Foreign exchange translation differences 2,483 2 2,481 At 31 December 2008 1 January 2009 82,108 16,318 17,535 115,961 Premiums 3,271 1,860 1,736 6,867 Surrenders 2,394 1,535 42 3,971 Maturities Deaths 5,147 670 1,422 7,239 note a Net cash flows 4,270 345 272 4,343 Shareholders transfers post tax 202 202 Switches 270 270 note D2h note c Assumption changes shareholder-backed business 46 46 note b Investment-related items and other movements 9,365 2,849 1,904 14,118 Foreign exchange translation differences 764 57 707 At 31 December 2009 87,495 19,035 19,665 126,195 Notes a Net cash flows of negative 4,343 million have increased from negative 3,233 million in 2008, principally as a result of a decrease in premiums following the decision to limit bulk annuity transactions in the period.
b Investment-related items and other movements of 14,118 million across fund types reflected the strong performance of UK equity markets in 2009, as well as the increase in value of debt securities and the reversal of unrealised losses on property investments recorded in 2008. c Assumption changes principally represent the net impact of changes to the deflation reserve, expense assumptions and modelling changes.
Of the 6,950 million total debt securities held in 2009 2008: 6,135 million which are not externally rated, 2,190 million were internally rated AAA to A-, 3,445 million were internally rated BBB to Band 1,315 million were rated below Bor unrated 2008: 2,325 million, 3,149 million and 661 million respectively.
The majority of unrated debt security investments were held in SAIF and the PAC with-profits fund and relate to convertible debt and other investments which are not covered by ratings analysts nor have an internal rating attributed to them.
Of the 1,503 million PRIL and other annuity and long-term business investments which are not externally rated, 15 million were internally rated AAA, 88 million AA, 495 million A, 647 million BBB, 123 million BB and 135 million were internally rated B and below.
As detailed in note D2 i below, the primary sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity relates to non-linked shareholder-backed business which covers PRIL and other annuity and long-term business in the table above.
d Products and guarantees Prudentials long-term products in the UK consist of life insurance, pension products and pension annuities.
These products are written primarily in: One of three separate sub-funds of the PAC long-term fund, namely the with-profits sub-fund, SAIF, and the non-profit sub-fund: Prudential Annuities Limited, which is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund: Prudential Retirement Income Limited, a shareholder-owned subsidiary: or Other shareholder-backed subsidiaries writing mainly non-profit unit-linked business.
i With-profits products and PAC with-profits sub-fund Within the statement of financial position of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2009, as shown in note D2 a, there are policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of 77.5 billion 2008: 72.1 billion that relate to the WPSF.
These amounts include the liabilities and capital of Prudential Annuities Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the fund.
The WPSF mainly contains with-profits business but it also contains some non-profit business unit-linked, term assurances and annuities.
The WPSFs profits are apportioned 90 per cent to its policyholders and 10 per cent to shareholders as surplus for distribution is determined via the annual actuarial valuation.
The WPSF held a provision of 31 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 42 million to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity products.
SAIFs exposure to guaranteed annuities is described below.
Beyond the generic guarantees described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees such as minimum investment returns, surrender values or annuities at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year, and once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
176 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D The main factors that influence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the with-profits fund, inflation, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
The overall rate of return earned on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important influences on bonus rates.
A high proportion of the assets backing the with-profits business are invested in equities and real estate.
If the financial strength of the with-profits business is affected, then a higher proportion of fixed interest or similar assets might be held by the fund.
Further details on the determination of the two types of the bonuses: regular and final, the application of significant judgement, key assumptions and the degree of smoothing of investment returns in determining the bonus rates are provided below.
Regular bonus rates For regular bonuses, the bonus rates are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting the bonus level at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on underlying assets.
The expected future investment return is reduced as appropriate for each type of policy to allow for items such as expenses, charges, tax and shareholders transfers.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type, or by the date of payment of the premium or date of issue of the policy or if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change the PAC Board has regard to the overall strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended prudent target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes in regular bonus rates to be gradual over time, and these are not expected to exceed one per cent per annum over any year.
However, the PAC Directors retain the discretion whether or not to declare a regular bonus each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can change.
Final bonus rates A final bonus which is normally declared yearly, may be added when a claim is paid or when units of a unitised product are realised.
The rates of final bonus usually vary by type of policy and by reference to the period, usually a year, in which the policy commences or each premium is paid.
These rates are determined by reference to the asset shares for the sample policies but subject to the smoothing approach, explained below.
In general, the same final bonus scale applies to maturity, death and surrender claims except that: The total surrender value may be impacted by the application of a Market Value Reduction MVR for accumulating with-profits policies and is affected by the surrender bases for conventional with-profits business : and For the SAIF and Scottish Amicable Life SAL, the final bonus rates applicable on surrender may be adjusted to reflect expected future bonus rates.
Application of significant judgement The application of the above method for determining bonuses requires the PAC board of directors to apply significant judgement in many respects, including in particular the following: Determining what constitutes fair treatment of customers: Prudential is required by UK law and regulation to consider the fair treatment of its customers in setting bonus levels.
The concept of determining what constitutes fair treatment, while established by statute, is not defined.
Smoothing of investment returns: This is an important feature of with-profits products.
Determining when particular circumstances, such as a significant rise or fall in market values, warrant variations in the standard bonus smoothing limits that apply in normal circumstances requires the PAC Board to exercise significant judgement.
Determining at what level to set bonuses to ensure that they are competitive: The overall return to policyholders is an important competitive measure for attracting new business.
Key assumptions As noted above, the overall rate of return on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important influences in bonus rates, subject to the smoothing described below.
Prudential determines the assumptions to apply in respect of these factors, including the effects of reasonably likely changes in key assumptions, in the context of the overarching discretionary and smoothing framework that applies to its with-profits business as described above.
As such, it is not possible to specifically quantify the effects of each of these assumptions or of reasonably likely changes in these assumptions.
Prudentials approach, in applying significant judgement and discretion in relation to determining bonus rates, is consistent conceptually with the approach adopted by other firms that manage a with-profits business.
It is also consistent with the requirements of UK law, which require all UK firms that carry out a with-profits business to define, and make publicly available, the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM that are applied in the management of their with-profits funds.
177 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued Accordingly, Prudentials PPFM contains an explanation of how it determines regular and final bonus rates within the discretionary framework that applies to all with-profits policies, subject to the general legislative requirements applicable.
The purpose of Prudentials PPFM is therefore to: explain the nature and extent of the discretion available: show how competing or conflicting interests or expectations of: different groups and generations of policyholders: and policyholders and shareholders are managed so that all policyholders and shareholders are treated fairly: and provide a knowledgeable observer e. g. a financial adviser with an understanding of the material risks and rewards from starting and continuing to invest in a with-profits policy with Prudential.
Furthermore, in accordance with industry-wide regulatory requirements, the PAC Board has appointed: an Actuarial Function Holder who provides the PAC Board with all actuarial advice: a With-Profits Actuary whose specific duty is to advise the PAC Board on the reasonableness and proportionality of the manner in which its discretion has been exercised in applying the PPFM and the manner in which any conflicting interests have been addressed: and a With-Profits Committee of independent individuals, which assesses the degree of compliance with the PPFM and the manner in which conflicting rights have been addressed.
Smoothing of investment return In determining bonus rates for the UK with-profits policies, smoothing is applied to the allocation of the overall earnings of the UK with-profits fund of which the investment return is a significant element.
The smoothing approach differs between accumulating and conventional with-profits policies to reflect the different contract features.
In normal circumstances, Prudential does not expect most payout values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance payout values between different policies.
Greater flexibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example following a significant rise or fall in market values, and in such situations the PAC Board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits in order to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
The degree of smoothing is illustrated numerically by comparing in the following table the relatively smoothed level of policyholder bonuses declared as part of the surplus for distribution with the more volatile movement in investment return and other items of income and expenditure of the UK component of the PAC with-profits fund for each year presented.
2009 m 2008 m Net income of the fund: Investment return 10,461 14,595 Claims incurred 6,253 7,068 Movement in policyholder liabilities 3,692 13,504 Add back policyholder bonuses for the year as shown below 1,827 2,565 Claims incurred and movement in policyholder liabilities including charge for provision for asset shares and excluding policyholder bonuses 8,118 9,001 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 3,063 2,927 Other income 2 36 Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 842 408 Tax charge credit 640 1,191 Net income of the fund before movement in unallocated surplus 3,922 1,920 Movement in unallocated surplus 1,893 4,769 Surplus for distribution 2,029 2,849 Surplus for distribution allocated as follows: 90% policyholders bonus as shown above 1,827 2,565 10% shareholders transfers 202 284 2,029 2,849 178 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D ii Annuity business Prudentials conventional annuities include level, fixed-increase and retail price index RPI annuities.
They are mainly written within the subsidiaries PAL, PRIL, Prudential Pensions Limited and the PAC with-profits sub-fund, but there are some annuity liabilities in the nonprofit sub-fund and SAIF.
Prudentials fixed-increase annuities incorporate automatic increases in annuity payments by fixed amounts over the policyholders life.
The RPI annuities that Prudential offers provide for a regular annuity payment to which an additional amount is added periodically based on the increase in the UK RPI.
Prudentials with-profits annuities, which are written in the WPSF, combine the income features of annuity products with the investment smoothing features of with-profits products and enable policyholders to obtain exposure to investment return on the WPSFs equity shares, property and other investment categories over time.
Policyholders select an anticipated bonus from the specific range Prudential offers for the particular product.
The amount of the annuity payment each year depends upon the relationship between the anticipated bonus rate selected by the policyholder when the product is purchased and the bonus rates Prudential subsequently declares each year during the term of the product.
If the total bonus rates fall below the anticipated rate, then the annuity income falls.
At 31 December 2009, 32.3 billion 2008: 29.4 billion of investments relate to annuity business of PAL and PRIL.
These investments are predominantly in debt securities including retail price index-linked bonds to match retail price index-linked annuities, loans and deposits and are duration matched with the estimated duration of the liabilities they support.
iii SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund formed following the acquisition of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in 1997.
No new business may be written in SAIF, although regular premiums are still being paid on policies in force at the time of the acquisition and incremental premiums are permitted on these policies.
The fund is solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of this fund although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
The process for determining policyholder bonuses of SAIF with-profits policies, which constitute the vast majority of obligations of the funds, is similar to that for the with-profits policies of the WPSF.
However, in addition, the surplus assets in SAIF are allocated to policies in an orderly and equitable distribution over time as enhancements to policyholder benefits i. e. in excess of those based on asset share.
Provision is made for the risks attaching to some SAIF unitised with-profits policies that have MVR-free dates and for those SAIF products which have a guaranteed minimum benefit on death or maturity of premiums accumulated at four per cent per annum.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and a provision of 284 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2009 2008: 391 million to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF this provision has no impact on the financial position of the Groups shareholders equity.
iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business Prudential UK insurance operations also have an extensive book of unit-linked policies of varying types and provide a range of other non-profit business such as credit life and protection contracts.
These contracts do not contain significant financial guarantees.
There are no guaranteed maturity values or guaranteed annuity options on unit-linked policies except for minor amounts for certain policies linked to cash units within SAIF.
e Exposure to market risk i Non-linked life and pension business For with-profits business, the absence of guaranteed surrender values and the flexibility given by the operation of the bonus system means that a high proportion of the investments backing the with-profits business are in equities and real estate with the balance in debt securities, deposits and loans.
The investments supporting the protection business are small in value and tend to be assets of a fixed term duration reflecting the guaranteed nature of the liabilities.
ii Pension annuity business Prudentials UK annuity business mainly employs fixed income investments including UK retail price index-linked assets because the liabilities consist of guaranteed payments for as long as each annuitant or surviving partner is alive.
Retail price index-linked assets are used to back pension annuities where the payments are linked to the RPI.
iii Unit-linked business Except through the second order effect on asset management fees, the unit-linked business of the UK insurance operations is not exposed to market risk.
The lack of exposure arises from the contract nature whereby policyholder benefits reflect asset value movements of the unit-linked funds.
179 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued f Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities i Overview The calculation of the contract liabilities involves the setting of assumptions for future experience.
This is done following detailed review of the relevant experience including, in particular, mortality, expenses, tax, economic assumptions and where applicable, persistency.
For with-profits business written in the WPSF or SAIF, a market consistent valuation is performed as described in section ii below.
Additional assumptions required are for persistency and the management actions under which the fund is managed.
Assumptions used for a market consistent valuation typically do not contain margins, whereas those used for the valuation of other classes of business do.
Mortality assumptions are set based on the results of the most recent experience analysis looking at the experience over recent years of the relevant business.
For non-profit business, a margin for adverse deviation is added.
Different assumptions are applied for different product groups.
For annuitant mortality, assumptions for current mortality rates are based on recent experience investigations and expected future improvements in mortality.
The expected future improvements are based on recent experience and projections of the business and industry experience generally.
Maintenance and, for some classes of business, termination expense assumptions are expressed as per policy amounts.
They are set based on the expenses incurred during the year, including an allowance for ongoing investment expenditure and allocated between entities and product groups in accordance with the operations internal cost allocation model.
For non-profit business a margin for adverse deviation is added to this amount.
Expense inflation assumptions are set consistent with the economic basis and based on the difference between yields on nominal gilts and index-linked gilts.
From 1 January 2008, when the previous tariff arrangement terminated, the actual renewal expenses incurred on behalf of SAIF by other Group companies are recharged in full to SAIF.
The assumptions for asset management expenses are based on the charges specified in agreements with the Groups asset management operations, plus a margin for adverse deviation for non-profit business.
Tax assumptions are set equal to current rates of taxation.
For non-profit business excluding unit-linked business, the valuation interest rates used to discount the liabilities are based on the yields as at the valuation date on the assets backing the technical provisions.
For fixed interest securities the gross redemption yield is used except for the PAL and PRIL annuity business where the internal rate of return of the assets backing the liabilities is used.
Properties are valued using the rental yield, and for equities it is the greater of the dividend yield and the average of the dividend yield and the earnings yield.
An adjustment is made to the yield on non risk-free fixed interest securities and property to reflect credit risk.
To calculate the non-unit reserves for linked business, assumptions have been set for the gross unit growth rate and the rate of inflation of maintenance expenses, as well as for the valuation interest rate as described above.
ii WPSF and SAIF The policyholder liabilities reported for the WPSF are primarily for two broad types of business.
These are accumulating and conventional with-profits contracts.
The policyholder liabilities of the WPSF are accounted for under FRS 27.
The provisions have been determined on a basis consistent with the detailed methodology included in regulations contained in the FSAs rules for the determination of reserves on the FSAs realistic Peak 2 basis.
In aggregate, the regime has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
These contracts are a combination of insurance and investment contracts with discretionary participation features, as defined by IFRS 4.
The FSAs Peak 2 calculation under the realistic regime requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: The with-profits benefits reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future expected policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
Asset shares are calculated as the accumulation of all items of income and outgo that are relevant to each policy type.
Income comprises credits for premiums, investment returns including unrealised gains, and miscellaneous profits.
Outgo comprises charges for tax including an allowance for tax on unrealised gains, guarantees and smoothing, mortality and morbidity, shareholders profit transfers, miscellaneous losses, and expenses and commission net of any tax relief.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount must be determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
180 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group and aim to be market consistent.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR, and investment policy employed and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse investment scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that is retained in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with the Groups management policy for with-profits funds and the Groups disclosures in the publicly available PPFM.
The contract liabilities for with-profits business also require assumptions for persistency.
These are set based on the results of recent experience analysis.
iii Annuity business Credit risk provisions For IFRS reporting, the results for UK shareholder-backed annuity business are particularly sensitive to the allowances made for credit risk.
The allowance is reflected in the deduction from the valuation rate of interest for discounting projected future annuity payments to policyholders that would have otherwise applied.
Since mid-2007 there has been a significant increase in the actual and perceived credit risk associated with corporate bonds as reflected in the significant widening that has occurred in corporate bond spreads.
Although bond spreads over swap rates have narrowed from their peak in March 2009, they are still high compared with the levels seen in the years immediately preceding the start of the dislocated markets in 2007.
The allowance that should therefore be made for credit risk remains a particular area of judgement.
The additional yield received on corporate bonds relative to swaps can be broken into the following constituent parts: the expected level of future defaults: the credit risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in default levels: and the liquidity premium that is required to compensate for the lower liquidity of corporate bonds relative to swaps.
The credit risk allowance is a function of the asset mix and the credit quality of the underlying portfolio.
At 31 December 2009, 80 per cent 2008: 75 per cent of the assets backing the shareholder annuity and other business were debt securities as shown in D2 a.
This comprises both government and corporate bonds.
Government bonds are generally given a credit default allowance of zero.
For corporate bonds the credit allowance varies by credit rating.
An analysis of the credit ratings of debt securities is included in note D2 c. Given that the normal business model for Prudentials annuity business is to hold bonds to match long-term liabilities, the valuation rate that is applied to discount the future annuity payments includes a liquidity premium that reflects the residual element of current bond spreads over swap rates after providing for the credit risk.
Historically, until the second half of 2007, when corporate bond spreads widened significantly, the allowance for credit risk was calculated as the long-term expected defaults and a long-term credit risk premium.
This long-term credit risk was supplemented by a short-term allowance from 31 December 2007 to allow for the concern that credit ratings applied by the rating agencies may be downgraded and defaults in the short-term might be higher than the long-term assumptions.
181 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued The weighted components of the bond spread over swap rates for shareholder-backed fixed and linked annuity business for PRIL at 31 December 2009, 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 based on the asset mix at the relevant balance sheet dates are as follows: 2009 Adjustment from Pillar I regulatory Regulatory to IFRS basis basis bps IFRS bps note v bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 175 175 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 19 19 note iii Long-term credit risk premium 13 13 note iv Short-term allowance for credit risk 39 24 15 Total credit risk allowance 71 24 47 Liquidity premium 104 24 128 2008 Adjustment from Pillar I regulatory Regulatory to IFRS basis basis bps IFRS bps note v bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 323 323 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 15 15 note iii Long-term credit risk premium 11 11 note iv Short-term allowance for credit risk 54 25 29 Total credit risk allowance 80 25 55 Liquidity premium 243 25 268 2007 Adjustment from Pillar I regulatory Regulatory to IFRS basis basis bps IFRS bps note v bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 76 76 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 13 13 note iii Long-term credit risk premium 10 3 7 note iv Short-term allowance for credit risk 10 10 Total credit risk allowance 33 13 20 Liquidity premium 43 13 56 Notes i Bond spread over swap rates reflect market observed data.
ii Long-term expected defaults are derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2004 uplifted by between 100 per cent B and 200 per cent AAA according to credit rating on the annuity asset portfolio.
The credit rating assigned to each asset held is based on external credit rating and for this purpose the credit rating assigned to each asset held is the lowest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch.
iii The long-term credit risk premium, provides compensation against the risk of potential volatility in the level of defaults and is derived by applying the 95th percentile from Moodys data from 1970 to 2004 to the annuity asset portfolio.
iv The short-term allowance for credit risk assumed in the Pillar 1 solvency valuations at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008 were determined as 25 per cent of the increase in corporate bond spreads as estimated from the movements in published corporate bond indices since 31 December 2006. v The very prudent Pillar 1 regulatory basis reflects the overriding objective of ensuring sufficient provisions and capital to ensure payments to policyholders can be made.
The approach for IFRS aims to establish liabilities that are closer to best estimate.
In years prior to 2008 long-term IFRS default assumptions had been set mid-way between the EEV and Pillar 1 assumptions.
At 31 December 2008, in light of the increased uncertainty surrounding future credit default experience, the IFRS long-term assumptions were strengthened to bring them into line with the long-term Pillar 1 default assumptions.
In addition a short-term allowance for credit risk was established but at a lower level than allowed for in the Pillar 1 regulatory basis.
182 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D Factors affecting the credit risk allowance at 31 December 2009 The main factors influencing the credit risk allowance at 31 December 2009 are as follows: a Credit downgrades and default experience As highlighted above, the short-term allowance at 31 December 2008 was intended to cover both short-term credit downgrades and losses in excess of the longer-term expectations.
Downgrades in 2009 have been within the opening Pillar 1 assumptions and hence the increase in the long-term allowance as a result of credit downgrades has been offset by an equal decrease in the short-term allowance.
Defaults for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business totalled 11 million during 2009, below the amount allowed for within the short-term allowance.
The allowance in bps terms has been adjusted to eliminate any experience profits that would have otherwise arisen.
b Asset trading in relation to subordinated financial debt During the second half of 2009, the Group decided to trade out of subordinated financial debt into higher quality assets.
This resulted in a gross transaction loss arising from the lower expected yield on the newly purchased assets.
The reduction in subordinated financial debt holdings improved the overall credit quality of the corporate bond portfolio and so allowed a release of long-term credit reserves to offset this loss.
In addition the allowance for the short-term defaults above has been notionally allocated to the highest yielding assets and so the allowance attaching to the subordinated debt sold has also been released.
On a Pillar 1 basis this transaction had no overall impact on the solvency surplus of PRIL, the PAC non-participating sub-fund and PAL.
On an IFRS basis, a lower short-term default reserve was held at 31 December 2008 and the release of the reserves in respect of the subordinated debt is therefore lower.
Overall the reduction in subordinated financial debt holdings generated a pre-tax IFRS operating loss of 51 million.
c Asset purchases in respect of new business The assets purchased during 2009 to back new business have been of better average credit quality than the assets held at 31 December 2008, in particular no subordinated bank debt or sub-investment grade assets have been bought to back new business.
As a result of the lower credit risk of the new business assets, the overall allowance for credit risk required at 31 December 2009 is reduced when the new business assets and in-force assets are aggregated together.
d Overall impact on the PRIL credit risk allowance After taking account of the factors noted above the movement on the average basis points allowances for PRIL on the Pillar 1 regulatory and IFRS bases are as follows: Pillar 1 Regulatory basis IFRS bps bps Long-term Short-term Total Long-term Short-term Total Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2008 26 54 80 26 29 55 Credit downgrades 14 14 14 14 Retention of surplus from favourable default experience 5 5 1 1 Asset trading 8 4 12 8 1 9 New business 2 2 1 1 Other 1 1 Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2009 32 39 71 32 15 47 Overall this has led to the credit allowance for Pillar 1 purposes to be 41 per cent 2008: 25 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
For IFRS purposes it represents 27 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates 2008: 17 per cent.
183 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued Mortality The mortality assumptions are set in light of recent population and internal experience.
The assumptions used are percentages of standard actuarial mortality tables with an allowance for future mortality improvements.
Where annuities have been sold on an enhanced basis to impaired lives an additional age adjustment is made.
The percentages of the standard table used are selected according to the source of business.
The range of percentages used is set out in the following tables: PAL PRIL 2009 Males Females Males Females In payment 102% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 96% 102% PNMA00 87% 98% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table table with a minimum improvement table annual improvement with a minimum annual annual improvement with a minimum annual of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering age 120 to zero at age 120 age 120 to zero at age 120 In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2008 Males Females Males Females In payment 102% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 97% 102% PNMA00 88% 98% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table table with a minimum improvement table annual improvement with a minimum annual annual improvement with a minimum annual of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering age 120 to zero at age 120 age 120 to zero at age 120 In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2007 Males Females Males Females In payment 106% 126% PNMA00 84% 117% PNFA00 99% 114% PNMA00 85% 103% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table table with a minimum improvement table annual improvement with a minimum annual annual improvement with a minimum annual of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering age 120 to zero at age 120 age 120 to zero at age 120 In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business The majority of other long-term business written in the UK insurance operations is unit-linked business or other business with similar features.
For these contracts the attaching liability reflects the unit value obligation and provision for expenses and mortality risk.
The latter component is determined by applying mortality assumptions on a basis that is appropriate for the policyholder profile.
For unit-linked business, the assets covering unit liabilities are exposed to market risk, but the residual risk when considering the unit-linked liabilities and assets together is limited to the effect on fund-based charges.
For those contracts where the level of insurance risk is insignificant the assets and liabilities arising under the contracts are distinguished between those that relate to the financial instrument liability and acquisition costs and deferred income that relate to the component of the contract that relates to investment management.
Acquisition costs and deferred income are recognised consistent with the level of service provision in line with the requirements of IAS 18.
184 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D g Reinsurance The Groups UK insurance business cedes only minor amounts of business outside the Group.
During 2009, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 122 million 2008: 61 million and reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were 502 million 2008: 416 million in aggregate.
During the year the Groups UK insurance business wrote a longevity swap on certain aspects of the UKs annuity back-book liabilities.
This resulted in a one-off benefit of 34 million to IFRS profit before tax.
The gains and losses recognised in profit and loss for other contracts were immaterial.
h Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2009 Mortality Recent mortality experience has been in line with expectations and no change is therefore required to the overall strength of mortality assumptions at 31 December 2009. Credit risk The approach to reserving for credit risk is set out in note f iii.
Aggregate effect of assumptions changes For UK insurance operations, the effects of assumptions changes for 2009 were as follows: 2009 m  backed sub-fund business note a note b Effect of changing expense assumptions 51 9 Release of investment-related margins: Deflation risk margins 32 Asset management fees 14 Weakening of other assumptions 14 9 Net credit to unallocated surplus 65 Net credit to shareholder result 46 Notes a Charges and expenses of the with-profits sub-fund have been updated to reflect the experience in 2009.
The changes vary by product and the overall impact is a 51 million credit.
b The assumption changes in 2009 for the shareholder-backed business primarily relate to changes to the deflation reserve, expense assumptions and modelling changes.
2008 Mortality Overall mortality experience was in line with expectations and no change was therefore required to the overall strength of mortality assumptions at 31 December 2008.
However, mortality assumptions were rebalanced across different categories of business so as to more closely align to the actual experience of each product category.
The overall effect of rebalancing the assumptions between different product groups was financially neutral.
Credit risk In total, for 2008, the effect of changes to the allowance for credit risk and the effect of portfolio rebalancing gave rise to a charge of 23 million.
For shareholder-backed annuity and lifetime mortgage business, the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns included a charge of 413 million for the additional credit risk allowance for the annuity portfolio as a whole.
Partially offsetting this was 390 million for the impact of 2.8 billion of portfolio rebalancing to more closely align management benchmark.
The credit reflecting the additional yield expected after allowing for additional credit risk arising from the rebalancing.
185 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued Aggregate effect of assumptions changes For UK insurance operations, the effects of assumptions changes for 2008 were as follows: 2008 m  backed sub-fund business Effect of strengthening of mortality assumptions 60 4 note a Modelling of management actions 421 Weakening of other assumptions 75 436 4 Release of other margins: Projected benefit related 10 10 Investment related: note b Additional credit default margins 369 413 Deflation risk margins 30 32 Expense related 36 8 Net credit to unallocated surplus 83 Net charge to shareholder result 447 Notes a The 421 million credit for modelling of management actions relates primarily to enhancements for actions in the event of solvency distress scenarios.
b Net of additional credit risk allowance attaching to effect of portfolio balancing described above.
c In 2008, no changes to mortality assumptions were made or necessary.
i Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and equity to market and other risks The risks to which the IFRS basis results of the UK insurance operations are sensitive are asset liability matching, mortality experience and payment assumptions for shareholder-backed annuity business.
Further details are described below.
i With-profits business SAIF Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on the assets of the fund.
With-profits sub-fund business For with-profits business including non-participating business of PAL which is owned by the WPSF adjustments to liabilities and any related tax effects are recognised in the income statement.
However, except for any impact on the annual declaration of bonuses, shareholders profit for with-profits business is unaffected.
This is because IFRS basis profits for with-profits business, which are determined on the same basis as on preceding UK GAAP, solely reflect one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for the year.
The main factors that influence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the fund, the effect of inflation, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
Mortality and other insurance risk are relatively minor factors.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities of the fund.
As unallocated surplus of the WPSF is recorded as a liability, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profits or equity.
The level of unallocated surplus is particularly sensitive to the level of investment returns on the portion of the life fund assets that represents the surplus.
The effects for 2009 and 2008 are demonstrated in note D5.
ii Shareholder-backed annuity business Profits from shareholder-backed annuity business are most sensitive to: The extent to which the duration of the assets held closely matches the expected duration of the liabilities under the contracts.
Assuming close matching, the impact of short-term asset value movements as a result of interest rate movements will broadly offset changes in the value of liabilities caused by movements in valuation rates of interest: actual versus expected default rates on assets held: the difference between long-term rates of return on corporate bonds and risk-free rates: the variance between actual and expected mortality experience: the extent to which expected future mortality experience gives rise to changes in the measurement of liabilities: and changes in renewal expense levels.
A decrease in assumed mortality rates of one per cent would decrease gross profits by approximately 44 million 2008: 35 million.
A decrease in credit default assumptions of five basis points would increase gross profits by 91 million 2008: 71 million.
A decrease in renewal expenses excluding asset management expenses of five per cent would increase gross profits by 17 million 2008: 15 million.
The effect on profits would be approximately symmetrical for changes in assumptions that are directionally opposite to those explained above.
186 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D iii Unit-linked and other business Unit-linked and other business represents a comparatively small proportion of the in-force business of the UK insurance operations.
Profits from unit-linked and similar contracts primarily arise from the excess of charges to policyholders, for management of assets under the Companys stewardship, over expenses incurred.
The former is most sensitive to the net accretion of funds under management as a function of new business and lapse and timing of death.
The accounting impact of the latter is dependent upon the amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins for insurance contracts and amortisation in line with service provision for the investment management component of investment contracts.
By virtue of the design features of most of the contracts which provide low levels of mortality cover, the profits are relatively insensitive to changes in mortality experience.
iv Shareholder exposure to interest rate risk and other market risk By virtue of the fund structure, product features and basis of accounting described in note D2 d and f, the policyholder liabilities of the UK insurance operations are, except for pension annuity business, not generally exposed to interest rate risk.
For pension annuity business, liabilities are exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
However, the net exposure to the PAC WPSF for PAL and shareholders for liabilities of PRIL and the non-profit sub-fund is very substantially ameliorated by virtue of the close matching of assets with appropriate duration.
The level of matching from period to period can vary depending on management actions and economic factors so it is possible for a degree of mis-matching profits or losses to arise.
The close matching by the Group of assets of appropriate duration to annuity liabilities is based on maintaining economic and regulatory capital.
The measurement of liabilities under capital reporting requirements and IFRS is not the same, with contingency reserves and some other margins for prudence within the assumptions required under the FSA regulatory solvency basis not included for IFRS reporting purposes.
As a result IFRS equity is higher than regulatory capital and therefore more sensitive to interest rate risk.
The estimated sensitivity of the UK non-linked shareholder-backed business principally pension annuities business to a movement in interest rates is as follows.
2009 m 2008 m A decrease A decrease An increase An increase A decrease A decrease An increase An increase of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% Carrying value of debt securities and derivatives 5,372 2,422 2,020 3,731 4,362 1,983 1,676 3,108 Policyholder liabilities 5,125 2,304 1,905 3,498 3,974 1,798 1,503 2,773 Related deferred tax effects 69 33 32 65 109 52 48 94 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 178 85 83 168 279 133 125 241 In addition the shareholder-backed portfolio of UK non-linked insurance operations covering liabilities and shareholders equity includes equity securities and investment property.
Excluding any second order effects on the measurement of the liabilities for future cash flows to the policyholder, a fall in their value would have given rise to the following effects on pre-tax profit, profit after tax, and shareholders equity.
2009 m 2008 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 40% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit 292 146 508 254 127 Related deferred tax effects 82 41 142 71 35 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 210 105 366 183 92 A 10 or 20 per cent 2008: 10, 20 or 40 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The market risk sensitivities shown above reflect the impact of temporary market movements and, therefore, the primary effect of such movements would, in the Groups segmental analysis of profits, be included within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
The disclosure of the effect of a 40 per cent fall for the 2008 year end was included because of the exceptional market conditions at that time.
These conditions have now abated and the disclosure is no longer appropriate.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis given above, the Group has, for 2009, considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall but rather this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put in place mitigating management actions.
187 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D2: UK insurance operations continued j Duration of liabilities With the exception of most unitised with-profits bonds and other whole of life contracts the majority of the contracts of the UK insurance operations have a contract term.
However, in effect, the maturity term of contracts reflects the earlier of death, maturity, or lapsation.
In addition, with-profits contract liabilities as noted in note D2 f include projected future bonuses based on current investment values.
The actual amounts payable will vary with future investment performance of SAIF and the WPSF.
The tables below show the carrying value of the policyholder liabilities.
Separately, the Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The tables below also show the maturity profile of the cash flows used for 2009 and 2008 for that purpose for insurance contracts, as defined by IFRS, i. e. those containing significant insurance risk, and investment contracts, which do not.
2009 m Annuity business With-profits business Insurance contracts Other Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contractscontracts Total PAL PRIL  Total Total Policyholder liabilities 40,780 24,780 65,560 11,969 14,292 26,261 10,614 13,794 24,408 116,229 2009 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 50 29 41 32 31 32 34 35 35 5 to 10 years 26 25 26 25 23 24 25 22 23 10 to 15 years 13 19 15 18 17 17 18 19 18 15 to 20 years 6 14 9 11 12 12 11 11 11 20 to 25 years 396787766 Over 25 years 243798577 2008 m Annuity business With-profits business Insurance contracts Other Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contractscontracts Total PAL PRIL  Total Total Policyholder liabilities 39,010 23,367 62,377 11,477 12,513 23,990 9,756 11,584 21,340 107,707 2008 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 47 26 38 30 29 29 31 32 32 5 to 10 years 26 23 25 24 23 23 23 22 23 10 to 15 years 13 19 15 18 17 18 18 18 18 15 to 20 years 71510121313121212 20 to 25 years 4 117888877 Over 25 years 3658 109898 Notes i The cash flow projections of expected benefit payments used in the maturity profile table above are from value of in-force business and exclude the value of future new business, including vesting of internal pension contracts.
ii Benefit payments do not reflect the pattern of bonuses and shareholder transfers in respect of the with-profits business.
iii Investment contracts under Other comprise certain unit-linked and similar contracts accounted for under IAS 39 and IAS 18. iv For business with no maturity term included within the contracts, for example with-profits investment bonds such as Prudence Bond, an assumption is made as to likely duration based on prior experience.
v The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flow for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
188 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D D3: US insurance operations a Summary results and statement of financial position i Results and movements in shareholders equity 2009 m 2008 m Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 459 406 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 27 1,058 Profit loss before shareholder tax 486 652 Tax 102 72 Profit loss for the year 588 580 2009 m 2008 m Profit loss for the year as above 588 580 Items recognised in other comprehensive income: Exchange movements 231 545 Unrealised valuation movements on securities classified as available-for-sale: Unrealised holding gains losses arising during the year 2,249 2,482 Less losses included in the income statement 420 378 Total unrealised valuation movements 2,669 2,104 Related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs 1,069 831 Related tax 557 442 Total other comprehensive income loss 812 286 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 1,400 866 Dividends and interest payments to central companies 87 126 Net increase decrease in equity 1,313 992 Shareholders equity at beginning of year 1,698 2,690 Shareholders equity at end of year 3,011 1,698 Included within the movements in shareholders equity is a net increase in value of Jacksons debt securities classified as available-forsale under IAS 39 of 2,669 million 2008: net reduction of 2,104 million.
With the exception of debt securities for US insurance operations classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39, unrealised value movements on the Groups investments are booked within the income statement.
However, for debt securities classified as availablefor-sale, unless impaired, fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Realised gains and losses, including impairments, are recorded in the income statement.
This classification is applied for most of the debt securities of the Groups US operations.
In 2009, Jackson recorded 630 million 2008: 497 million of impairment losses arising from: 2009 m 2008 m Residential mortgage-backed securities 509 167 Public fixed income 91 311 Other 30 19 630 497 Further details on the impairment losses recognised in the year are shown in note B1.
Jacksons portfolio of debt securities is managed proactively with credit analysts closely monitoring and reporting on the credit quality of its holdings.
Jackson continues to review its investments on a case-by-case basis to determine whether any decline in fair value represents an impairment.
In addition, investment in structured securities where market prices are depressed are subject to a rigorous review of their future estimated cash flows, including expected and stress case scenarios, to identify potential shortfalls in contractual payments both interest and principal.
Impairment charges are recorded on structured securities when the Company forecasts a contractual payment shortfall.
Situations where such a shortfall would not lead to a recognition of a loss are rare.
However, some structured securities do not have a single determined set of future cash flows and instead, there can be a reasonable range of estimates that could potentially emerge.
With this variability, there could be instances where the projected cash flow shortfall under managements base case set of assumptions is so minor that relatively small and justifiable changes to the base case assumptions would eliminate the need for an impairment loss to be recognised.
The impairment loss reflects the difference between the fair value and book value.
189 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued In 2009, there was a movement in the statement of financial position value for debt securities classified as available-for-sale from a net unrealised loss of 2,897 million to a net unrealised gain of 4 million 2008: net unrealised loss of 136 million to a net unrealised loss of 2,897 million, principally as a result of improving credit spreads more than offsetting the negative effect on the bond values from the increase in the US treasury yields.
During 2009, the gross unrealised gain in the statement of financial position increased from 281 million at 31 December 2008 to 970 million at 31 December 2009 while the gross unrealised loss decreased from 3,178 million at 31 December 2008 to 966 million at 31 December 2009.
Details of the securities in an unrealised loss position are shown in D3 c below.
These features are included in the table shown below of the movements in the values of available-for-sale securities: 2009 2008 Changes in Foreign unrealised exchange appreciation translation Reflected as part of movement in other comprehensive income m m m m Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 8,220 20,600 Unrealised loss 966 1,925 287 3,178 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 7,254 17,422 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 14,444 6,296 Unrealised gain 970 744 55 281 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 15,414 6,577 Total Book value 22,664 26,896 Net unrealised gain loss 4 2,669 232 2,897 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 22,668 23,999 Reflected as part of movement in other comprehensive income Movement in unrealised appreciation 2,669 2,104 Exchange movements 232 657 2,901 2,761 Book value represents cost amortised cost of the debt securities.
Debt securities for US operations as included in the statement of financial position of 22,831 million 2008: 24,249 million comprise 22,668 million 2008: 23,999 million in respect of securities classified as available-for-sale and 163 million 2008: 250 million for securities of consolidated investment funds classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Translated at the average rate of US$1.57: 1.
Included within the movement in gross unrealised losses for the debt securities of Jackson of 1,925 million 2008: 1,997 million as shown above was a value reduction of 72 million 2008: 105 million relating to the sub-prime and Alt-A securities as referred to in section B6.
190 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D ii Statement of financial position Variable annuity Fixed US insurance operations separate account annuity, GIC assets and and other 2009 2008 liabilities business note i note i Total Total m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 3,092 3,092 3,962 Total 3,092 3,092 3,962 Deferred tax assets 1,944 1,944 1,969 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 1,404 1,404 1,819 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 33 33 13 Financial investments: note ii Loans 4,319 4,319 5,121 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 20,639 345 20,984 15,142 note D3c Debt securities 22,831 22,831 24,249 note iii Other investments 955 955 1,256 Deposits 454 454 390 Total investments 20,639 28,937 49,576 46,171 Properties held for sale 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 340 340 246 Total assets 20,639 35,720 56,359 54,167 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 3,011 3,011 1,698 Minority interests Total equity 3,011 3,011 1,698 Liabilities note iv Policyholder liabilities: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 20,639 27,672 48,311 45,361 Total 20,639 27,672 48,311 45,361 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 154 154 173 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 203 203 511 Deferred tax liabilities 1,858 1,858 1,337 Other non-insurance liabilities 2,822 2,822 5,087 Total liabilities 20,639 32,709 53,348 52,469 Total equity and liabilities 20,639 35,720 56,359 54,167 191 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued Notes i Assets and liabilities attaching to variable annuity business that are not held in the separate account are shown within other business.
ii Loans The loans of the Groups US insurance operations of 4,319 million 2008: 5,121 million comprise mortgage loans of 3,774 million 2008: 4,534 million, policy loans of 530 million 2008: 587 million and other loans of 15 million 2008: nil.
All of the mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans which are collateralised by properties.
The property types are mainly industrial, multi-family residential, suburban office, retail and hotel.
The breakdown by property type is as follows: 2009 2008 %% Industrial 32 29 Multi-family residential 18 21 Office 20 21 Retail 19 17 Hotels 10 10 Other 1 2 100 100 The US insurance operations commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and is therefore not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
The average loan size is 6.3 million 2008: 7.5 million.
The portfolio has a current estimated average loan to value of 74 per cent 2008: 73 per cent which provides significant cushion to withstand substantial declines in value.
The policy loans are fully secured by individual life insurance policies or annuity policies.
These loans are accounted for at amortised cost, less any impairment.
iii Other investments comprise: 2009 2008 m m note G3 Derivative assets 519 675 Partnerships in investment pools and other 436 581 955 1,256 In the US, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate efficient portfolio management to match liabilities under annuity policies, and for certain equity-based product management activities.
After taking account of the derivative liability of 461 million 2008: 863 million, which is also included in the statement of financial position, the derivative position for US operations is a net asset of 58 million 2008: net liability of 188 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise primarily investments in limited partnerships.
These include interest in the PPM America Private Equity Fund and diversified investments in 159 2008: 157 other partnerships by independent money managers that generally invest in various equities and fixed income loans and securities.
iv Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and reserves at 31 December 2009 The policyholder liabilities, net of reinsurers share of 667 million 2008: 800 million, reflect balances in respect of the following: 2009 2008 m m Policy reserves and liabilities on non-linked business: Reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims payable 1,645 2,518 Deposits on investment contracts as defined under US GAAP 23,706 24,962 Guaranteed investment contracts 1,654 2,543 Unit-linked variable annuity business 20,639 14,538 47,644 44,561 In addition to the policyholder liabilities above, Jackson has entered into a programme of funding arrangements under contracts which, in substance, are almost identical to GICs.
The liabilities under these funding arrangements totalled 1,444 million 2008: 3,233 million and are included in other non-insurance liabilities in the statement of financial position above.
192 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities of US insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Variable annuity separate Fixed annuity, US insurance account GIC and other operations liabilities business Total m m m At 1 January 2008 15,027 19,821 34,848 Premiums 2,637 4,091 6,728 Surrenders 1,053 2,799 3,852 Maturities Deaths 161 403 564 note b Net cash flows 1,423 889 2,312 Investment-related items and other movements 6,288 1,736 4,552 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 4,376 8,377 12,753 At 31 December 2008 1 January 2009 14,538 30,823 45,361 Premiums 4,667 4,510 9,177 Surrenders 882 2,373 3,255 Maturities Deaths 199 534 733 note b Net cash flows 3,586 1,603 5,189 Transfers from general to separate account 984 984 note c Investment-related items and other movements 3,368 382 2,986 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 1,837 3,388 5,225 At 31 December 2009 20,639 27,672 48,311 Notes a Movements in the year have been translated at an average rate of 1.57 full year 2008: 1.85.
The closing balance has been translated at closing rate of 1.61 full year 2008: 1.44.
Differences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange translation differences of 5,225 million.
b Net cash flows for the year were 5,189 million compared with 2,312 million in 2008, driven largely by increased new business volumes for the variable annuity business.
c Positive investment-related items and other movements in variable annuity separate account liabilities were impacted by the recovery of US equity markets during 2009.
Negative movements in fixed annuity, GIC and other business of 382 million primarily represents a reduction in the liabilities for variable annuity guarantees following improvements in equity markets and increases in interest rates offset by interest credited to policyholder accounts.
c Information on credit risks of debt securities 2009 m 2008 m Carrying Carrying Summary value value Corporate security and commercial loans: Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A traded 13,338 13,198 Non-SEC Rule 144A traded 3,117 3,273 Total 16,455 16,471 Residential mortgage-backed securities 3,316 4,509 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 2,104 1,869 Other debt securities 956 1,400 Total debt securities 22,831 24,249 193 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued i Credit quality For statutory reporting in the US, debt securities are classified into six quality categories specified by the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
The categories range from Class 1 the highest to Class 6 the lowest.
Performing securities are designated as Classes 1 to 5.
Securities in or near default are designated Class 6.
Securities designated as Class 3, 4, 5 and 6 are non-investment grade securities.
Generally, securities rated AAA to A by nationally recognised statistical ratings organisations are reflected in Class 1, BBB in Class 2, BB in Class 3 and B and below in Classes 4 to 6.
If a designation is not currently available from the NAIC, Jacksons investment adviser, PPM America, provides the designation for the purposes of disclosure below.
2009 2008 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 5,067 38 5,380 41 2 7,508 56 6,849 52 3 598 5 690 5 4 122 1 200 1 5 40 75 1 6 3 4 13,338 100 13,198 100 The following table shows the quality of the non-SEC Rule 144A traded private placement portfolio by NAIC classifications: 2009 2008 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 1,084 35 1,268 39 2 1,792 57 1,655 50 3 162 5 285 9 4 54 2 54 2 5 20 1 11 6 5 3,117 100 3,273 100 Included within other debt securities of 956 million 2008: 1,400 million in the summary shown above are 652 million 2008: 893 million of asset-backed securities held directly by Jackson, of which 447 million 2008: 663 million were NAIC designation 1 and 152 million 2008: 159 million NAIC designation 2.
In addition, other debt securities includes 172 million 2008: 257 million in respect of securities held by the Piedmont trust entity and 131 million 2008: 250 million from the consolidation of investment funds managed by PPM America.
194 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D In addition to the ratings disclosed above, the following table summarises by rating the debt securities, as at 31 December 2009 using Standard and Poors S&P, Moodys, Fitch and implicit ratings of RMBS based on NAIC valuations: 2009 m 2008 m Carrying Carrying value value S&P AAA 3,287 5,321 S&P AA to AA- 846 853 S&P A to A- 5,192 5,244 S&P BBB to BBB- 7,659 7,077 S&P Other 895 1,321 17,879 19,816 Moodys Aaa 273 458 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 43 100 Moodys A1 to A3 32 111 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 64 100 Moodys Other 57 95 469 864 Implicit ratings of RMBS based on NAIC valuations see below NAIC 1 747 NAIC 2 105 NAIC 3-6 473 1,325 Fitch 281 464 Other 2,877 3,105 Total debt securities 22,831 24,249 The amounts within Other which are not rated by S&P, Moodys, Fitch nor are RMBS securities using the revised regulatory ratings have the following NAIC classifications: 2009 2008 m m NAIC 1 1,102 1,334 NAIC 2 1,623 1,650 NAIC 3-6 152 121 2,877 3,105 In the table above, with the exception of residential mortgage-backed securities for 2009, S&P ratings have been used where available.
During 2009, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC in the US revised the regulatory ratings process for more than 20,000 residential mortgage-backed securities.
The table above includes these securities, where held by Jackson, using the regulatory rating levels established by an external third party PIMCO.
ii Determining the fair value of debt securities when the markets are not active Under IAS 39, unless categorised as held to maturity or loans and receivables debt securities are required to be fair valued.
Where available, quoted market prices are used.
However, where securities are in inactive markets, IAS 39 requires that valuation techniques be applied.
Note G1 sets out further details of the Groups approach to determining fair value and classifies these fair values into a three level hierarchy as required by IFRS 7.
At 31 December 2009, three per cent of Jacksons debt securities were classified as level 3 2008: 15 per cent being fair values where there are significant inputs which are not based on observable market data.
The higher proportion at 31 December 2008 arises from the illiquidity of the market at that time and hence a greater use of internal valuation techniques.
195 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued In 2008, due to inactive and illiquid markets, beginning at the end of the third quarter of 2008 the external prices obtained for certain asset-backed securities were deemed not to reflect fair value in the dislocated market conditions at that time.
For the valuations at 31 December 2008, Jackson had therefore utilised internal valuation models, provided by PPM America, as best estimate of fair values of all non-agency Residential Mortgage-backed Securities RMBS and Asset-backed Securities ABS and certain Commercial Mortgage-backed Securities CMBS.
During 2009, improvements were observed in the level of liquidity for these sectors of structured securities and this increased liquidity in the markets for certain tranches of non-agency RMBS and ABS resulted in Jackson being able to rely on external prices for the securities as the most appropriate measure of fair value.
Accordingly, at 30 June 2009 and 31 December 2009, nearly all of the non-agency RMBS, ABS and certain CMBS which at 31 December 2008 were valued using internal valuation models due to the dislocated market conditions in 2008, have now been valued using external prices.
iii Asset-backed securities funds exposures Included within the debt securities of Jackson at 31 December 2009 are exposures to asset-backed securities as follows: 2009 m 2008 m RMBS Sub-prime 31 Dec 2009: 76% AAA, 1% AA 194 291 Alt-A 31 Dec 2009: 24% AAA, 5% AA 443 646 Prime 31 Dec 2009: 82% AAA, 4% AA 2,679 3,572 CMBS 31 Dec 2009: 46% AAA, 14% AA 2,104 1,869 CDO funds 31 Dec 2009: 29% AAA, 10% AA, including 3 million exposure to sub-prime 79 320 ABS 31 Dec 2009: 25% AAA, 18% AA, including nil exposure to sub-prime 877 766 6,376 7,464 Including Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
RMBS ratings refer to the rating implicit within NAIC risk-based capital valuation see D3 i previous page.
Jackson defines its exposure to sub-prime mortgages as investments in residential mortgage-backed securities in which the underlying borrowers have a US Fair Isaac Credit Organisation FICO credit score of 680 or lower.
iv Debt securities classified as available-for-sale in an unrealised loss position a Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value The unrealised losses in Jacksons statement of financial position on unimpaired securities are 966 million 2008: 3,178 million.
This relates to assets with fair market value and book value of 7,254 million 2008: 17,422 million and 8,220 million 2008: 20,600 million respectively.
The following table shows the fair value of the debt securities in a gross unrealised loss position for various percentages of book value at 31 December: 2009 m 2008 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value value loss value loss Between 90% and 100% 5,127 169 8,757 431 Between 80% and 90% 1,201 203 4,581 809 Below 80% 926 594 4,084 1,938 Total 7,254 966 17,422 3,178 Included within the table above are amounts relating to sub-prime and AltA securities of: 2009 m 2008 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Fair value of securities as a percentage of book value value loss value loss Between 90% and 100% 102 3 479 27 Between 80% and 90% 160 28 120 19 note d Below 80% 159 88 192 166 Total 421 119 791 212 196 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D b Unrealised losses by maturity of security 2009 m 2008 m Unrealised Unrealised loss loss Less than 1 year 21 1 to 5 years 29 537 5 to 10 years 127 1,236 More than 10 years 92 395 Mortgage-backed and other debt securities 718 989 Total 966 3,178 c Age analysis of unrealised losses for the years indicated The following table shows the aged analysis for all the unrealised losses in the portfolio by reference to the length of time the securities have been in an unrealised loss position: 2009 m 2008 m NonNoninvestment Investment investment Investment grade grade Total grade grade Total Less than 6 months 7 51 58 108 362 470 6 months to 1 year 25 59 84 125 1,164 1,289 1 year to 2 years 59 234 293 154 622 776 2 years to 3 years 125 199 324 15 91 106 More than 3 years 35 172 207 61 476 537 251 715 966 463 2,715 3,178 At 31 December 2009, the gross unrealised losses in the statement of financial position for the sub-prime and Alt-A securities in an unrealised loss position were 119 million 2008: 212 million, as shown above in note a.
Of these losses 21 million 2008: 91 million relate to securities that have been in an unrealised loss position for less than one year and 98 million 2008: 121 million to securities that have been in an unrealised loss position for more than one year.
d Securities whose fair value were below 80 per cent of the book value As shown in the table a above, 594 million of the 966 million of gross unrealised losses at 31 December 2009 2008: 1,938 million of the 3,178 million of gross unrealised losses related to securities whose fair values were below 80 per cent of the book value.
The analysis of the 594 million, 2008: 1,938 million by category of debt securities and by age analysis indicating the length of time for which their fair value was below 80 per cent of the book value, are as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Category analysis value loss value loss Residential mortgage-backed securities Prime 322 153 287 115 Alt-A 77 33 144 127 Sub-prime 82 55 48 39 481 241 479 281 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 87 86 811 375 Other asset-backed securities 183 188 198 86 Total structured securities 751 515 1,488 742 Corporates 175 79 2,596 1,196 Total 926 594 4,084 1,938 197 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued Age analysis of fair value being below 80 per cent for the period indicated: 2009 m 2008 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Age analysis value loss value loss Less than 3 months 153 45 3,118 1,364 3 months to 6 months 5 3 696 403 More than 6 months 768 546 270 171 926 594 4,084 1,938 d Products and guarantees Jackson provides long-term savings and retirement products to retail and institutional customers throughout the US.
Jackson offers fixed annuities interest-sensitive, fixed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
i Fixed annuities Interest-sensitive annuities At 31 December 2009, interest-sensitive fixed annuities accounted for 24 per cent 2008: 29 per cent of policy and contract liabilities of Jackson.
Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are primarily deferred annuity products that are used for retirement planning and for providing income in retirement.
They permit tax-deferred accumulation of funds and flexible payout options.
The policyholder of an interest-sensitive fixed annuity pays Jackson a premium, which is credited to the policyholders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the policyholders account and in some cases administrative charges are deducted from the policyholders account.
Jackson makes benefit payments at a future date as specified in the policy based on the value of the policyholders account at that date.
The policy provides that at Jacksons discretion it may reset the interest rate, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The minimum guarantee varies from 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent 2008: 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent depending on the jurisdiction of issue and the date of issue, with 82 per cent 2008: 83 per cent of the fund at three per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 3.1 per cent 2008: 3.1 per cent.
Approximately 61 per cent 2008: 34 per cent of the interest-sensitive fixed annuities Jackson wrote in 2009 provide for a market value adjustment, that could be positive or negative, on surrenders in the surrender period of the policy.
This formula-based adjustment approximates the change in value that assets supporting the product would realise as interest rates move up or down.
The minimum guaranteed rate is not affected by this adjustment.
Fixed indexed annuities Fixed indexed annuities accounted for 10 per cent 2008: eight per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2009.
Fixed indexed annuities vary in structure, but generally are deferred annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equitylinked return based on participation rates and caps but provide a guaranteed minimum return.
These guaranteed minimum rates are generally set at 1.25 to 3.0 per cent.
Jackson hedges the equity return risk on fixed indexed products using futures and options linked to the relevant index.
The cost of these hedges is taken into account in setting the index participation rates or caps.
Jackson bears the investment and surrender risk on these products.
Immediate annuities At 31 December 2009, immediate annuities accounted for two per cent 2008: two per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
Immediate annuities guarantee a series of payments beginning within a year of purchase and continuing over either a fixed period of years and or the life of the policyholder.
If the term is for the life of the policyholder, then Jacksons primary risk is mortality risk.
The implicit interest rate on these products is based on the market conditions that exist at the time the policy is issued and is guaranteed for the term of the annuity.
ii Variable annuities At 31 December 2009, VAs accounted for 49 per cent 2008: 39 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
VAs are deferred annuities that have the same tax advantages and payout options as interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities.
The primary differences between VAs and interest-sensitive or fixed indexed annuities are investment risk and return.
If a policyholder chooses a VA, the rate of return depends upon the performance of the selected fund portfolio.
Policyholders may allocate their investment to either the fixed or variable account.
Investment risk on the variable account is borne by the policyholder, while investment risk on the fixed account is borne by Jackson through guaranteed minimum fixed rates of return.
At 31 December 2009, approximately 14 per cent 2008: approximately 18 per cent of VA funds were in fixed accounts.
198 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contractholder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB, annuitisation guaranteed minimum income benefit GMIB, or at specified dates during the accumulation period guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit GMWB and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit GMAB.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts as described in note D3 e. The GMIB is no longer offered, with existing coverage being reinsured.
iii Life insurance Jacksons life insurance products accounted for nine per cent 2008: 10 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2009.
The products offered include variable universal life insurance, term life insurance and interest-sensitive life insurance.
iv Institutional products Jacksons institutional products consist of GICs, funding agreements including agreements issued in conjunction with Jacksons participation in the US Federal Home Loan Bank programme and medium-term note funding agreements.
At 31 December 2009, institutional products accounted for six per cent of policy and contract liabilities 2008: 12 per cent.
Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
If deposited funds are withdrawn earlier than the specified term of the contract, an adjustment is made that approximates a market value adjustment.
Under a funding agreement, the policyholder either makes a lump sum deposit or makes specified periodic deposits.
Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be fixed but which is usually a floating short-term interest rate linked to an external index.
The average term of the funding arrangements is one to two years.
Funding agreements terminable by the policyholder with less than 90 days notice account for less than one per cent 2008: one per cent of total policyholder reserves.
Medium-term note funding agreements are generally issued to support trust instruments issued on non-US exchanges or to qualified investors as defined by SEC Rule 144A.
Through the funding agreements, Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be fixed or floating, to the holders of the trust instruments.
e Exposure to market risk and risk management Jacksons main exposures are to market risk through its exposure to interest rate risk and equity risk.
Approximately 95 per cent 2008: 90 per cent of its general account investments support interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities, life business and surplus and five per cent 2008: 10 per cent support institutional business.
All of these types of business contain considerable interest rate guarantee features and, consequently, require that the assets that support them are primarily fixed income or fixed maturity.
Prudential is exposed primarily to the following risks in the US arising from fluctuations in interest rates: the risk of loss related to meeting guaranteed rates of accumulation following a sharp and sustained fall in interest rates: the risk of loss related to policyholder withdrawals following a sharp and sustained increase in interest rates: and the risk of mismatch between the expected duration of certain annuity liabilities and prepayment risk and extension risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
Prudential is also exposed to the following risks in the US arising from equity market movements: the risk of loss related to the incidence of benefits related to guarantees issued in connection with its VA contracts: and the risk of loss related to meeting contractual accumulation requirements in FIA contracts.
Jackson enters into financial derivative transactions, including those noted below to reduce and manage business risks.
These transactions manage the risk of a change in the value, yield, price, cash flows, or quantity of, or a degree of exposure with respect to assets, liabilities or future cash flows, which Jackson has acquired or incurred.
Jackson uses free-standing derivative instruments for hedging purposes.
Additionally, certain liabilities, primarily trust instruments supported by funding agreements, fixed indexed annuities, certain GMWB variable annuity features and reinsured GMIB variable annuity features contain embedded derivatives as defined by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Jackson does not account for such derivatives as either fair value or cash flow hedges as might be permitted if the specific hedge documentation requirements of IAS 39 were followed.
Financial derivatives, including derivatives embedded in certain host liabilities that have been separated for accounting and financial reporting purposes are carried at fair value.
Value movements on the derivatives are reported within the income statement.
In preparing Jacksons segment profit as shown in note B1, value movements on Jacksons derivative contracts, other than for certain equity-based product management activities, are included within short-term fluctuations in investment returns and excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns defined as segment profit.
Value movements on derivative instruments used for certain equity-based product management activities, based on a static long-term volatility assumption and, for embedded liabilities, average Corporate AA interest rates, are included within operating results based on longer-term investment returns, as the value movements broadly offset the economic impact of changed levels of benefit payments and reserves as equity markets fluctuate, subject to some limitations for GMDB where US GAAP does not fully reflect the economic features being hedged.
Any differences in value movements on these derivatives between the static long-term volatility assumption and implied volatility or average Corporate AA interest rates and ending Corporate AA interest rates are reflected as components of short-term fluctuations.
The types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: 199 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued interest rate swaps generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating payments over the period for which Jackson holds the instrument without an exchange of the underlying principal amount.
These agreements are used for hedging purposes: put-swaption contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates.
Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 10 years.
On a net basis, put-swaptions hedge against significant upward movements in interest rates: equity index futures contracts and equity index call and put options are used to hedge Jacksons obligations associated with its issuance of fixed indexed immediate and deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees.
These annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes: total return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term floating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes: cross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jacksons foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations: spread cap options are used as a macro-economic hedge against declining interest rates.
Jackson receives quarterly settlements based on the spread between the two-year and the 10 year constant maturity swap rates in excess of a specified spread: and credit default swaps, represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio.
These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty in the event of their default in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement.
Note D3 i parts iii and iv show the sensitivities of Jacksons results through its exposure to equity risk and interest rate risk.
f Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities Under the MSB of reporting applied under IFRS 4 for insurance contracts, providing the requirements of the Companies Act, UK GAAP standards and the ABI SORP are met, it is permissible to reflect the previously applied UK GAAP basis.
Accordingly, and consistent with the basis explained in note A4, in the case of Jackson the carrying values of insurance assets and liabilities are consolidated into the Group accounts based on US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, investment contracts as defined for US GAAP purposes are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts.
These amounts are for: any amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods i. e. deferred income : any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract: and any probable future loss on the contract i. e. premium deficiency.
Capitalised acquisition costs and deferred income for these contracts are amortised over the life of the book of contracts.
The present value of the estimated gross profits is generally computed using the rate of interest that accrues to policyholder balances sometimes referred to as the contract rate.
Estimated gross profits include estimates of the following elements, each of which will be determined based on the best estimate of amounts of the following individual elements over the life of the book of contracts without provision for adverse deviation for: amounts expected to be assessed for mortality less benefit claims in excess of related policyholder balances: amounts expected to be assessed for contract administration less costs incurred for contract administration: amounts expected to be earned from the investment of policyholder balances less interest credited to policyholder balances: amounts expected to be assessed against policyholder balances upon termination of contracts sometimes referred to as surrender charges : and other expected assessments and credits.
VA contracts written by Jackson may, as described above, provide for GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate persistency assumptions.
In accordance with SOP03-01 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non-traditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts which specifies how certain guarantee features should be accounted for under US GAAP, the GMDB liability is not fair valued but is instead determined each period end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognising the excess ratably over the life of the contract based on total expected assessments.
At 31 December 2009, the GMDB liability was valued using a series of deterministic investment performance scenarios, a mean investment return of 8.4 per cent 2008: 8.4 per cent and assumptions for lapse, mortality and expense that are the same as those used in amortising the capitalised acquisition costs.
The direct GMIB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of the annuitisation benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitisation and recognising the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments.
The assumptions used for calculating the direct GMIB liability at 31 December 2009 and 2008 are consistent with those used for calculating the GMDB liability.
Jackson regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional GMDB and GMIB liability balances, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
200 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D GMIB benefits are essentially fully reinsured, subject to annual claim limits.
As this reinsurance benefit is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39 and is, therefore, recognised at fair value with the change in fair value included as a component of short-term derivative fluctuations.
Most GMWB features are considered to be embedded derivatives under IAS 39.
Therefore, provisions for these benefits are recognised at fair value, with the change in fair value included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Certain GMWB features guarantee payments over a lifetime and, therefore, include mortality risk.
Provisions for these GMWB amounts are valued consistent with the GMDB valuation method discussed above.
For GMWB and GMIB reinsurance embedded derivatives that are fair valued under IAS 39, Jackson bases its volatility assumptions solely on implied market volatility with no reference to historical volatility levels and explicitly incorporates Jacksons own credit risk in determining discount rates.
Volatility assumptions are now based on a weighting of available market data on implied volatility for durations up to ten years, at which point the projected volatility is held constant.
Non-performance risk is incorporated into the calculation through the use of discount interest rates sourced from a AA corporate credit curve.
Other risk margins, particularly for market illiquidity and policyholder behaviour are also incorporated into the model through the use of explicitly conservative assumptions.
On a periodic basis, Jackson rationalises the resulting fair values based on comparisons to other models and market movements.
With the exception of the GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features of VA contracts, the financial guarantee features of Jacksons contracts are in most circumstances not explicitly valued, but the impact of any interest guarantees would be reflected as they are earned in the current account value i. e. the US GAAP liability.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined under US GAAP using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Institutional products are accounted for as investment contracts under IFRS with the liability classified as being in respect of financial instruments rather than insurance contracts, as defined by IFRS 4.
In practice, there is no material difference between the IFRS and US GAAP basis of recognition and measurement for these contracts.
Certain institutional products representing obligations issued in currencies other than US dollars have been hedged for changes in exchange rates using cross-currency swaps.
The fair value of derivatives embedded in funding agreements, as well as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, are included in the carrying value of the trust instruments supported by funding agreements recorded in other non-insurance liabilities.
g Reinsurance The principal reinsurance ceded by Jackson outside the Group is on term life insurance, direct and assumed accident and health business and GMIB variable annuity guarantees.
In 2009, the premiums for such ceded business amounted to 82 million 2008: 68 million.
Net commissions received on ceded business and claims incurred ceded to external reinsurers totalled 12 million and 66 million respectively, during 2009 2008: 10 million and 49 million respectively.
There were no deferred gains or losses on reinsurance contracts in either 2009 or 2008.
The reinsurance asset for business ceded outside the Group was 667 million 2008: 800 million.
h Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities a Measurement basis for embedded derivatives of variable annuity business and other policyholder liability Certain variable annuity products sold by Jackson include Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefits GMWB which, in accordance with the Groups accounting policies, are measured within the IFRS balance sheet at fair value.
This requires a number of assumptions related to projected future cash flows, including those driven by policyholder behaviours such as lapses, fund selections and withdrawals utilisation.
During 2009 the GMWB utilisation assumptions were revised to take account of the more recent experience of policyholder behaviour.
Previously policyholder behaviour for the utilisation of GMWB was assumed to be largely driven by the extent to which benefits were in the money.
For 2009, the assumption has been altered to take account of recent experience which shows that the attained age of the policyholder is the key factor in determining utilisation levels.
This has led to a release in policyholder liabilities of 96 million which is offset by a corresponding DAC amortisation charge of 68 million to give an overall impact on profit before tax of 28 million.
This assumption change has been offset by sundry other assumption changes such that the overall impact on operating profit of policyholder liability assumption changes, after taking into account DAC amortisation offsets, is a charge of 4 million.
In 2008 there were no changes of assumptions that had a material effect on the Jackson results.
There was a change in estimation technique relating to the measurement of the Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB features of Jacksons variable annuity products and the reinsurance of the Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit GMIB.
In 2008 these features were valued using implied current equity volatility levels rather than historic long-term levels and the use of AA corporate bond rates rather than LIBOR based swap rates as the reference basis for determining the discount rate.
The cumulative effect of these two changes was to reduce the total loss in 2008 by 47 million.
201 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued b Deferred acquisition costs Income statement amortisation for variable annuity business Under IFRS 4, the Group applies US GAAP to the insurance assets and liabilities of Jackson.
Under US GAAP, acquisition costs for Jacksons fixed and variable annuity business are deferred and then amortised in line with the expected emergence of margins.
The amortisation profile is dependant on assumptions which, for variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected level of equity market returns.
For 2009 and recent previous years a rate of 8.4 per cent has been applied using, as is industry practice, a mean reversion methodology.
The mean reversion methodology is applied with the objective of adjusting the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs that would otherwise be highly volatile for the fact that the expected level of future gross profits fluctuates for altered variable annuity asset values arising from changes in equity market levels at the end of each reporting period.
The mean reversion methodology achieves this objective by dynamic adjustment to the level of expectations of short-term future investment returns.
Under the methodology the projected returns for the next five years are, for the purposes of determining the amortisation profile, set so that normally combined with the actual returns for the current and preceding two years the average rate of return is 8.4 per cent.
The mean reversion methodology does, however, include a cap of 15 per cent per annum on the projected return for each of the next five years.
Projected returns after the next five years are set at 8.4 per cent.
For 2008 following the fall in equity markets in that year, this capping effect applied to restrict the projected returns below the rate of approximately 20 per cent per annum level that would have otherwise applied to the first five years.
Although equity markets rose during the year, the return in 2008 was such that the cap remains in place at 31 December 2009, albeit at a lower level.
The DAC amortisation reflected in the 2008 results, after incorporating the mean reversion, increased by some 140 million, of which 40 million arises due to the capping feature.
In 2009, following improvements in equity markets, no such DAC acceleration arose during the period and DAC amortisation fell accordingly.
Statement of changes in equity shadow DAC adjustments Consequent upon the positive unrealised valuation movement in 2009 of 2,669 million 2008: negative 2,104 million there is a debit of 1,069 million 2008: 831 million credit for altered shadow amortisation booked within other comprehensive income.
These adjustments reflect movement from period to period, in the changes to the pattern of reported gross profits that would have happened if the assets had been sold, crystallising the gain or loss, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
At 31 December 2009 the cumulative shadow DAC balance was negative 10 million 2008: positive 1,192 million.
i Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and equity to market and other risks i Currency fluctuations Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Groups US operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would reduce or increase profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders, profit loss for the year and shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2009 m 2008 m 2009 m 2008 m note i Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders 44 59 54 72 Profit loss for the year 54 51 65 62 Shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations 274 158 335 193 Note i Sensitivity on profit loss before tax i. e. aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations, as discussed in note B1.
202 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D ii Other sensitivities The principal determinants of variations in operating profit based on longer-term returns are: growth in the size of assets under management covering the liabilities for the contracts in force: variations in fees and other income, offset by variations in market value adjustment payments and, where necessary, strengthening of liabilities: incidence of guarantees and the effectiveness of the related hedge programme: spread returns for the difference between investment returns and rates credited to policyholders: For the purpose of determining longer-term returns, adjustment is necessary for the normalisation of investment returns to remove the effects of short-term volatility in investment returns.
amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality and persistency studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for 2009 and 2008 was 8.4 per cent per annum implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
The mean reversion methodology dampens the impact of equity market movements during a particular year, but does not fully eliminate the effects of movements in the equity markets.
In addition, the mean reversion methodology includes both a cap and a floor that determine the maximum impact that the methodology may have.
Due to the significant market movements during 2008, Jackson exceeded the cap on future equity market returns, resulting in a higher level of sensitivity to market movements than would have been recognised had the cap not been met at the end of 2008.
Given the low market return in 2008 this cap remained in place at 31 December 2009 and so the higher level of sensitivity remains.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and GMDB reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
iii Exposure to equity risk As noted in note D3 e, Jackson is exposed to equity risk through the options embedded in the fixed indexed liabilities and GMDB and GMWB guarantees included in certain VA benefits.
This risk is managed using a comprehensive equity hedging programme to minimise the risk of a significant economic impact as a result of increases or decreases in equity market levels while taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures in Jacksons operations.
Jackson purchases external futures and options that hedge the risks inherent in these products, while also considering the impact of rising and falling separate account fees.
As a result of this hedging programme, if the equity markets were to increase further in the future, Jacksons free-standing derivatives would decrease in value.
However, over time, this movement would be broadly offset by increased separate account fees and reserve decreases, net of the related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
Due to the nature of the free-standing and embedded derivatives, this hedge, while highly effective on an economic basis, may not completely mute the immediate impact of the market movements as the free-standing derivatives reset immediately while the hedged liabilities reset more slowly and fees are recognised prospectively.
The opposite impacts would be observed if the equity markets were to decrease.
At 31 December 2009 based on the hedges in place at that time, it is estimated that an immediate decrease in the equity markets of 10 per cent would result in an accounting benefit, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 60 million, excluding the impact on future separate account fees.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated increase in shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 of up to 40 million.
An immediate decrease in the equity markets of 20 per cent is estimated to result in an accounting benefit, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 110 million, excluding the impact on future separate account fees.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated increase in shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 of up to 80 million.
An immediate increase in the equity markets of 10 and 20 per cent is estimated to result in an approximately equal and opposite estimated effect on profit and shareholders equity as that disclosed above for a decrease.
203 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D3: US insurance operations continued At 31 December 2008, based on the hedges in place at that time, it was estimated that an immediate decrease in the equity markets at 10 per cent would result in an accounting charge, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 20 million, excluding the impact on future separate account fees.
After related deferred tax, it was estimated that there would have been a decrease in shareholders equity of up to 15 million.
An immediate decrease in the equity markets of 20 and 40 per cent was estimated to result in an accounting charge, net of related DAC amortisation, before tax of up to 40 million and 90 million respectively excluding the impact of future separate account fees.
After related deferred tax there would have been an estimated reduction in shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 of up to 30 million and 60 million respectively.
The difference in the effects of a decrease in the equity markets at 31 December 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to a high number of GMDB and GMWB guarantees being in the money at 31 December 2008.
As a result, the adverse effects on provisions for policyholder liabilities from a decreasing equity market at 31 December 2008 more than offset the benefits from the hedging instruments held at that time.
The actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon the volume of new product sales and lapses, changes to the derivative portfolio, correlation of market returns and various other factors including volatility, interest rates and elapsed time.
In addition, Jackson is also exposed to equity risk from its holding of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives.
A range of reasonably possible movements in the value of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives have been applied to Jacksons holdings at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
The table below shows the sensitivity to a 10 and 20 per cent 2008: 10, 20 and 40 per cent fall in value and the impact that this would have on pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC, profit after tax and shareholders equity.
2009 m 2008 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 40% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 117 58 255 141 98 Related deferred tax effects 41 20 89 49 34 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 76 38 166 92 64 The disclosure of the effect of a 40 per cent fall for 2008 was included because of the exceptional market conditions at that time.
iv Exposure to interest rate risk Notwithstanding the market risk exposure described in note D3 e, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of fixed annuity liabilities of Jackson products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement described in notes D3 d and D3 f. The GMWB features attaching to variable annuity business represents embedded derivatives which are fair valued and so will be sensitive to changes in interest rate.
Debt securities and related derivatives are marked to fair value.
Value movements on derivatives, again net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within profit and loss.
Fair value movements on debt securities, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
The estimated sensitivity of these items and policyholder liabilities to a one per cent and two per cent decrease and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2009 and 2008 and is as follows: 204 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D 2009 m 2008 m A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% decrease decrease increase increase decrease decrease increase increase Profit and loss Direct effect Derivatives value change 319 148 159 370 575 268 283 639 Policyholder liabilities 418 185 170 334 517 218 182 350 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 364 162 156 328 498 215 193 395 Pre-tax profit effect: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 144 62 56 109 128 59 64 146 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 229 109 117 267 466 212 208 448 373 171 173 376 594 271 272 594 Related effect on charge for deferred tax 131 60 60 131 206 94 95 207 Net profit effect 242 111 113 245 388 177 177 387 Other comprehensive income Direct effect on carrying value of debt securities 2,183 1,179 1,179 2,183 2,476 1,238 1,238 2,476 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 764 413 413 764 619 310 310 619 Related effect on movement in deferred tax 497 268 268 497 650 325 325 650 Net effect 922 498 498 922 1,207 603 603 1,207 Total net effect on IFRS equity 680 387 385 677 819 426 426 820 j Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
The table below also shows the maturity profile of the cash flows used for that purpose for 2009 and 2008: 2009 m 2008 m Fixed Fixed annuity annuity and other and other business business including including GICs and GICs and similar Variable similar Variable contracts annuity Total contracts annuity Total Policyholder liabilities 27,672 20,639 48,311 30,823 14,538 45,361 %% %% Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 52 50 49 46 5 to 10 years 27 28 26 28 10 to 15 years 10 12 11 14 15 to 20 years 56 67 20 to 25 years 32 33 Over 25 years 32 52 The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flows for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
205 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations a Summary statement of financial position Asian insurance operations With-profits Unit-linked 2009 2008 business assets and note i liabilities Other Total Total m m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: note iii Goodwill 80 80 111 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 822 822 1,247 Total 902 902 1,358 Intangible assets attributable to with-profit funds: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 97 97 113 Deferred tax assets 132 132 101 note iii Other non-investment and non-cash assets 234 83 563 880 1,416 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 11 11 20 Investments accounted for using the equity method 2 2 Financial investments: note ii Loans 781 27 399 1,207 1,705 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 3,691 7,224 267 11,182 8,077 note c Debt securities 4,988 2,462 2,534 9,984 11,113 Other investments 73 44 141 258 144 Deposits 14 196 536 746 750 Total investments 9,547 9,953 3,890 23,390 21,809 Cash and cash equivalents 225 235 377 837 1,501 Total assets 10,103 10,271 5,864 26,238 26,298 206 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D Asian insurance operations With-profits Unit-linked 2009 2008 business assets and note i liabilities Other Total Total m m m m m Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,462 1,462 2,167 Minority interests 1 1 7 Total equity 1,463 1,463 2,174 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classifies as investment contract under IFRS 4 8,808 9,717 3,333 21,858 20,909 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 53 53 160 Total 8,861 9,717 3,333 21,911 21,069 Other non-insurance liabilities: Operational borrowings attributable to  operations 210 210 130 Deferred tax liabilities 266 12 106 384 441 Other non-insurance liabilities 976 542 752 2,270 2,484 Total liabilities 10,103 10,271 4,401 24,775 24,124 Total equity and liabilities 10,103 10,271 5,864 26,238 26,298 Notes i The statement of financial position for with-profits business comprises the with-profits assets and liabilities of the Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore with-profits operations.
Assets and liabilities of other participating business are included in the column for other business.
ii The loans of the Groups Asian insurance operations of 1,207 million 2008: 1,705 million comprise mortgage loans of 13 million 2008: 238 million, policy loans of 437 million 2008: 675 million and other loans of 757 million 2008: 792 million.
The mortgage and policy loans are secured by properties and life insurance policies respectively.
The majority of the other loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation and which are all investment graded by two local rating agencies.
iii Further segmental analysis: No goodwill attributable to any individual country included in the Asia total of 80 million 2008: 111 million exceeds 10 per cent of the Group goodwill attributable to shareholders of 1,310 million 2008: 1,341 million.
Included within Other non-investment and non-cash assets of 880 million 2008: 1,416 million, was Property, plant and equipment of 94 million 2008: 144 million.
No individual country in Asia held property, plant and equipment at the end of the year which exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total of 367 million 2008: 635 million.
Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and unallocated surplus At 31 December 2009, the policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance of 18 million 2008: 24 million and unallocated surplus for Asian operations of 21.9 billion 2008: 21.0 billion comprised the following: 2009 m 2008 m Singapore 6,960 5,426 Hong Kong 5,762 5,100 Taiwan 545 4,024 Malaysia 1,823 1,587 Japan 1,094 1,100 Other countries 5,709 3,808 Total Asian operations 21,893 21,045 207 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations continued b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of Asian insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Asian Unit-linked insurance With-profits assets and operations business liabilities Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 6,547 6,971 3,661 17,179 Premiums note ii New business 391 1,252 233 1,876 In-force 647 1,009 630 2,286 1,038 2,261 863 4,162 Surrenders 354 614 223 1,191 Maturities Deaths 181 14 159 354 Net cash flows 503 1,633 481 2,617 Shareholders transfer post tax 23 23 Investment-related items and other movements 1,320 3,158 185 4,293 note i Foreign exchange translation differences 2,387 1,774 1,428 5,589 At 31 December 2008 1 January 2009 8,094 7,220 5,755 21,069 Premiums note ii New business 46 643 517 1,206 In-force 777 1,223 601 2,601 823 1,866 1,118 3,807 Surrenders 361 666 174 1,201 Maturities Deaths 253 19 70 342 Net cash flows 209 1,181 874 2,264 note iii Change in reserving basis in Malaysia 9 54 63 Change in other reserving basis 4 4 Shareholders transfers post tax 20 20 note iv Investment-related items and other movements 1,431 2,661 150 4,242 note i Foreign exchange translation differences 853 612 604 2,069 note v Disposal of Taiwan agency business 724 2,784 3,508 At 31 December 2009 8,861 9,717 3,333 21,911 Notes i Movements in the year have been translated at the average exchange rate for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The closing balance has been translated at the closing spot rates as at 31 December 2009.
Differences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange differences of negative 2,069 million.
ii The increase in policyholder liabilities due to new business premium for the with-profits business fell by 345 million to 46 million.
This is predominantly driven by a fall in sales of single premium with-profits policies in Hong Kong following the withdrawal of the PruSaver product in 2009.
The increase in policyholder liabilities due to new business premium for Asia unit-linked business was lower by 609 million in 2009, in line with decreases in single premium sales during the year.
iii The change in reserving basis in Malaysia of 63 million reflects the change made following the adoption of a risk based capital RBC approach to the local regulatory reporting in that country.
iv The positive investment related items and other movements for with-profits 1,431 million and unit-linked business 2,661 million were mainly driven from Asian equity market gains in the period.
v The disposal of Taiwan agency business reflects the liabilities transferred at the date of disposal.
208 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D c Information on credit risks of debt securities The following table summarises the credit quality of the debt securities of the Asian insurance operations as at 31 December 2009 by rating agency ratings: 2009 m 2008 m WithUnitprofits linked Other business business business Total Total S&P AAA 1,778 295 186 2,259 2,632 S&P AA to AA- 657 345 592 1,594 3,746 S&P A to A- 749 463 284 1,496 808 S&P BBB to BBB- 472 103 107 682 902 S&P Other 397 3 517 917 253 4,053 1,209 1,686 6,948 8,341 Moodys Aaa 86 33 15 134 494 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 38 32 279 349 108 Moodys A1 to A3 12 283 14 309 398 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 17 16 7 40 60 Moodys Other 15 15 50 153 364 330 847 1,110 Fitch 38 139 41 Other 782 851 517 2,150 1,621 Total debt securities 4,988 2,462 2,534 9,984 11,113 Of the 517 million 2008: 555 million debt securities for other business which are not rated in the table above, 225 million 2008: 231 million are in respect of government bonds and 265 million 2008: 221 million are in respect of corporate bonds rated as investment grade by local external ratings agencies, and 22 million 2008: nil structured deposits issued by banks which are themselves rated but where the specific deposits have not been.
d Products and guarantees The life insurance products offered by the Groups Asian operations include a range of with-profits and non-participating term, whole life, endowment and unit-linked policies.
The Asian operations also offer health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage to supplement its core life products.
The terms and conditions of the contracts written by the Asian operations and, in particular, the products options and guarantees, vary from territory to territory depending upon local market circumstances.
In general terms, the Asian participating products provide savings and protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the discretion of the insurers.
The Asian operations non-participating term, whole life and endowment products offer savings and or protection where the benefits are guaranteed or determined by a set of defined market-related parameters.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying unitised funds.
Health and Protection H&P policies provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
H&P products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies but can be sold separately.
Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described in note D2 d in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts written in the Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the insurer is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all benefits.
Investment-linked products have the lowest level of guarantee, if any.
Product guarantees in Asia can be broadly classified into four main categories, namely premium rate, cash value and interest rate guarantees, policy renewability and convertibility options.
The risks on death coverage through premium rate guarantees are low due to appropriate product pricing.
Cash value and interest rate guarantees are of three types: Maturity values Maturity values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
Declared annual bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Future bonus rates and cash dividends are not guaranteed on participating products.
Surrender values Surrender values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
The surrender value of declared reversionary bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Market value adjustments and surrender penalties are used where the law permits such adjustments in cash values.
209 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations continued Interest rate guarantees It is common in Asia for regulations or market-driven demand and competition to provide some form of capital value protection and minimum crediting interest rate guarantees.
This would be reflected within the guaranteed maturity and surrender values.
The guarantees are borne by shareholders for non-participating and investment-linked non-investment guarantees only products.
Participating product guarantees are predominantly supported by the segregated life funds and their estates.
Whole of life contracts with floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequently with market conditions are written in the Korean life operations.
This is to a much lesser extent than the policies written by the Taiwan agency business which was sold in the first half of 2009, as Korea has a much higher proportion of linked and health business.
The Korean business has non-linked liabilities and linked liabilities at 31 December 2009 of 349 million and 1,173 million respectively 2008: 312 million and 742 million respectively.
The other area of note in respect of guarantees is the Japanese business where pricing rates are higher than current bond yields.
Lapse risk is a feature in that policyholders could potentially surrender their policies on guaranteed terms if interest rates significantly increased leaving the potential for losses if bond values had depreciated significantly.
However, the business is matched to a relatively short realistic liability duration.
The method for determining liabilities of insurance contracts for UK GAAP, and IFRS, purposes for some Asian operations is based on US GAAP principles and this method applies to contracts with cash value and interest rate guarantees.
Following standard US GAAP procedure, premium deficiency reserve calculations are performed each year to establish whether the carrying values of the liabilities are sufficient.
On the US GAAP basis the calculations are deterministic, that is to say based on a single set of projections, and expected long-term rates of return are applied.
e Exposure to market risk The Asian operations sell with-profits and unit-linked policies and, although the with-profits business generally has a lower terminal bonus element than in the UK, the investment portfolio still contains a proportion of equities and, to a lesser extent, property.
Nonparticipating business is largely backed by debt securities or deposits.
The exposure to market risk of the Group arising from its Asian operations is therefore at modest levels.
This arises from the fact that the Asian operations have a balanced portfolio of with-profits, unit-linked and other types of business.
f Process for setting assumptions and determining liabilities The future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses in the Groups IFRS accounts and previously under the MSB, are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For Asian operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business written is primarily nonparticipating and linked business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate reporting basis.
This basis is applied in Japan and Vietnam and, materially for 2008 but less so for 2009 following the sale of the agency business, in Taiwan.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claims expenses.
g Reinsurance The Asian businesses cede only minor amounts of business outside the Group with immaterial effects on reported profit.
During 2009, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 119 million 2008: 76 million and the reinsurance assets were 18 million 2008: 24 million in aggregate.
h Effect of changes in bases, estimates and assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities a Exceptional credit of 63 million regarding the liability measurement for Malaysia long-term business For the Malaysia life business, under the basis applied previously, 2008 IFRS basis liabilities were determined on the local regulatory basis using prescribed interest rates such that a high degree of prudence resulted.
As of 1 January 2009, the local regulatory basis has been replaced by the Malaysian authoritys risk-based capital RBC framework.
In the light of this development, the Company has remeasured the liabilities by reference to the method applied under the new RBC framework, which is more realistic than the previous approach, but with an overlay constraint to the method such that negative reserves derived at an individual policyholder level are not included.
This change has resulted in a one-off release from liabilities at 1 January 2009 of 63 million.
b Changes in key assumptions Excluding the change in Malaysia as explained above, the result for Asian operations was increased in 2009 by the effect of a number of other individually small assumptions changes of, in aggregate, 4 million.
For 2008 the result for Asian operations was reduced by the effect of a number of individually small assumptions charges of, in aggregate, 21 million.
210 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D c Deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs Under IFRS, the basis of accounting for insurance assets and liabilities reflects grandfathered GAAP under the Modified Statutory Basis MSB.
In general, this requires the deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins.
In 2008, the basis of deferral and amortisation was adjusted for a number of territories to better reflect the MSB requirement as follows: For the India life operation, reflecting the initial development stage of the business, acquisition costs had previously not been deferred.
In 2008, 19 million of deferred acquisition costs, net of amortisation in the year, were established.
For the Korea life business, refinements were made to move to a more appropriate basis which resulted in a credit of 35 million 9 million of which related to the 1 January 2008 balance.
For Singapore, refinements were made with a 21 million benefit in 2008 of which 7 million related to the 1 January 2008 position where the local risk based capital approach does not provide an appropriate basis of implicit allowance for acquisition costs for certain products and in Hong Kong, adjustments were made with a net overall effect of a credit to profit of 10 million in 2008. i Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and equity to market and other risks Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asian insurance operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2009, the rates for the most significant operations are given in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would have reduced or increased profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2009 m 2008 m 2009 m 2008 m note i Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders 40 14 49 18 Profit loss for the year 35 6 43 8 Shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations 129 202 158 246 Note i Sensitivity on profit before tax i. e. aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, short-term fluctuations in investment returns, and actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes but excluding the loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business, as discussed in note B1.
Other risks i With-profits business Similar principles to those explained for UK with-profits business apply to profit emergence for the Asian with-profits business.
Correspondingly, the profit emergence reflects bonus declaration and is relatively insensitive to period by period fluctuations in insurance risk or interest rate movements.
ii Unit-linked business As for the UK insurance operations, the profits and shareholders equity related to the Asian operations is primarily driven by charges related to invested funds.
For the Asian operations, substantially all of the contracts are classified as insurance contracts under IFRS 4, i. e. containing significant insurance risk.
The sensitivity of profits and equity to changes in insurance risk is minor and, to interest rate risk, not material.
211 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D4: Asian insurance operations continued iii Other business a Interest rate risk for Taiwan For 2008 the principal other business of Asian operations that was most sensitive to movements in interest rates was the whole of life business written in Taiwan.
In June 2009 the Company completed the sale of its agency distribution business and associated liabilities and its agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company Ltd. as explained in note I1.
For 2009 the assets and liabilities of the element of Taiwan business retained by the Company are relatively less sensitive to variances in interest rates, with a reasonably possible decrease in interest rates of 0.5 per cent leading to an increase in IFRS pre-tax profits of 24 million.
After adjusting these results for deferred tax the reasonably possible effect on shareholders equity is 19 million.
A 0.5 per cent increase in interest rates is estimated to have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity.
b Interest rate risk for other business excluding Taiwan Asian operations offer a range of insurance and investment products, predominately with-profits and non-participating term, whole life endowment and unit-linked.
Excluding with-profit and unit-linked business along with Taiwan, the results of the Asian business are sensitive to the vagaries of routine movements in interest rates.
For the purposes of analysing sensitivity to variations in interest rates, it has been determined for the majority of territories that a movement of one per cent in the 10 year government bond rate can be considered reasonably possible.
At 31 December 2009, 10 year government bond rates vary from territory to territory and range from 1.3 per cent to 11.45 per cent 2008: 1.17 per cent to 10.18 per cent.
An exception to this arises in Japan where reasonably possible interest rate movements have been determined as 0.5 per cent respectively.
2008: Japan 0.5 per cent, Vietnam 1.5 per cent.
These reasonably possible changes would have the following impact: 2009 m 2008 m A decrease A decrease of 1% of 1% note i note i Pre-tax profit 67 56 Related deferred tax where applicable 17 11 Net effect on profit and equity 50 45 Note i One per cent sensitivity has been used in all territories except Japan 0.5 per cent 2008: Japan 0.5 per cent, Vietnam 1.5 per cent.
The pre-tax impacts, if they arose, would mostly be recorded within the category short-term fluctuations in investments returns in the Groups supplementary analysis of profit before tax.
At 31 December 2009, an increase in the rates of one per cent Japan 0.5 percent is estimated to have the effect of decreasing pre-tax profit by 87 million.
After adjusting these results for deferred tax the reasonable possible effect on shareholders equity is a decrease of 65 million.
212 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL D STATEMENTS D c Equity price risk The non-linked shareholder business has limited exposure to equity and property investment 278 million at 31 December 2009.
Generally changes in equity and property investment values are not automatically matched by investments in policyholder liabilities.
However for the Vietnam business, to the extent that equity investment appreciation is realised through sales of securities then policyholders liabilities are adjusted to the extent that policyholders participate.
The estimated sensitivity to a 10 and 20 per cent 2008: 10, 20 and 40 per cent change in equity and property prices for shareholderbacked Asian other business, which would be reflected in the short-term fluctuation component of the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax, at 31 December 2009 and 2008 would be as follows: 2009 m 2008 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 40% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit 58 29 176 88 44 Related deferred tax where applicable 84 531 Net effect on profit and equity 50 25 171 85 43 A 10 or 20 per cent, 2008: 10, 20 or 40 per cent increase in their value is estimated to have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The low tax rate effect, which is particularly evident in 2008 relates to the availability of losses in some of the territories.
The disclosure of the effect of a 40 per cent fall for the 2008 year-end was included because of the exceptional market conditions at that time.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis given above the Group has, for 2009, considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
d Insurance risk Many of the territories in Asia are exposed to mortality morbidity risk and provision is made within IFRS policyholder liabilities on a prudent regulatory basis to cover the potential exposure.
If these prudent assumptions were strengthened by five per cent estimated at one in ten year shock then it is estimated that post tax IFRS profit would be impacted by approximately 9 million with a corresponding change to IFRS shareholders equity.
Mortality morbidity has a symmetrical effect on portfolio and so a weakening of mortality morbidity assumptions would have an approximately equal and opposite similar impact.
j Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
Separately the Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The table below also shows the maturity profile of the cash flows, taking account of expected future premiums and investment returns used for that purpose for 2009 and 2008: 2009 m 2008 m Policyholder liabilities 21,858 20,909 %% Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 24 23 5 to 10 years 21 21 10 to 15 years 15 15 15 to 20 years 12 13 20 to 25 years 9 10 Over 25 years 19 18 213 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses a Summary statement The Groups estimated capital position for life assurance businesses with reconciliations to shareholders equity is shown below.
Available capital for each fund or group of companies is determined by reference to local regulation at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
2009 m Parent company and Other shareUK life holders assurance AsianTotal equity of Total subsidilife life M&G other PAC witharies and assurance assurance including subsidiWPSF profits funds  aries and Group 31 December 2009 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson aries tions Capital funds total Group shareholders equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 788 3,011 1,382 5,181 173 1,507 3,847 Goodwill 80 801,153 771,310 Total 788 3,011 1,462 5,261 1,326 1,430 5,157 note iii Held in long-term funds 1,114 1,114 1,114 Total Group shareholders equity 1,902 3,011 1,462 6,375 1,326 1,430 6,271 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note v with-profits funds 9,966 9,966 53 10,019 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 3,001 3,001 3,001 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 2 7 9 124 3,092 786 4,011 note iv Jackson surplus notes 154 154 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS and regulatory basis for note viii Jackson 2,221 2,221 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF to pension liability for regulatory note vii purposes 65 65 65 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,294 1,294 1,294 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a note v Peak 2 realistic basis 2 703 705 171 194 400 1,128 Total adjustments 6,432 6,432 295 523 333 5,281 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 6,432 6,432 1,607 2,488 1,129 11,656 214 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL A STATEMENTS D 2009 m Other UK life assurance Total subsidiaries Asian life Total life WPSF PAC withand funds assurance assurance 31 December 2009 SAIF note i profits fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations Policyholder liabilities With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 9,285 28,449 37,734 4,766 42,500 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 396 24,384 24,780 100 24,880 Total 9,681 52,833 62,514 4,866 67,380 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 3,942 3,942 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 1,998 1,998 6,793 20,639 9,717 39,147 Other life assurance business 291 12,726 13,017 18,113 25,707 3,287 60,124 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities note vi of Jackson 13,794 1,965 46 15,805 Total 291 14,724 15,015 38,700 48,311 16,992 119,018 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated statement of financial position 9,972 67,557 77,529 38,700 48,311 21,858 186,398 215 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued 2008 m Parent company and Other shareUK life holders assurance AsianTotal equity of Total subsidilife life M&G other PAC witharies and assurance assurance including subsidiWPSF profits funds  aries and Group 31 December 2008 SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson aries tions Capital funds total Group shareholders equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 735 1,698 2,056 4,489 147 1,839 2,797 Goodwill 111 1111,153 771,341 Total 735 1,698 2,167 4,600 1,300 1,762 4,138 note iii Held in long-term funds 920 920 920 Total Group shareholders equity 1,655 1,698 2,167 5,520 1,300 1,762 5,058 Adjustments to regulatory basis note v Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 8,2548,2541608,414 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 2,028 2,028 2,028 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes 3 10 13 128 3,962 876 4,979 note iv Jackson surplus notes 173 173 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS and regulatory basis note viii for Jackson 4,819 4,819 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF to pension liability for regulatory note vii purposes 147 147 147 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,350 1,350 1,350 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on note v a Peak 2 realistic basis 3 643 646 474 30 41 161 Total adjustments 5,362 5,362 602 1,060 757 5,063 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 5,362 5,362 1,053 2,758 1,410 10,583 216 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL A STATEMENTS D 2008 m Other UK life assurance Total subsidiaries Asian life Total life WPSF PAC withand funds assurance assurance 31 December 2008 SAIF note i profits fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations Policyholder liabilities With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 9,260 26,466 35,726 4,416 40,142 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 494 22,873 23,367 79 23,446 Total 9,754 49,339 59,093 4,495 63,588 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 3,407 3,407 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 1,872 1,872 6,041 14,538 7,220 29,671 Other life assurance business 264 12,625 12,889 16,228 27,938 5,755 62,810 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities note vi of Jackson 11,584 2,885 32 14,501 Total 264 14,497 14,761 33,853 45,361 16,414 110,389 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated statement of financial position 10,018 63,836 73,854 33,853 45,361 20,909 173,977 Notes i WPSF unallocated surplus includes amounts related to the Hong Kong branch.
Policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch are included in the amounts of Asian life assurance subsidiaries.
ii Excluding PAC shareholders equity that is included in parent company and shareholders equity of other subsidiaries and funds.
iii The term shareholders equity held in long-term funds refers to the excess of assets over liabilities attributable to shareholders of funds which are required by law to be maintained with segregated assets and liabilities.
iv For regulatory purposes the Jackson surplus notes are accounted for as capital.
v Other adjustments to shareholders equity and unallocated surplus include amounts for the value of non-participating business for UK regulated with-profits funds, deferred tax, admissibility and other items measured differently on the regulatory basis.
For Jackson the principal reconciling item is deferred tax related to the differences between IFRS and regulatory basis as shown in the table above and other methodology differences.
vi Insurance business accounted for as financial instruments under IAS 39. vii In determining the IAS 19 adjustment for the purposes of this table the deficit in the Groups main pension scheme used for the calculation includes amounts for investments in Prudential insurance policies see note I2.
viii The investment and policyholder liabilities valuation difference between IFRS and regulatory bases for Jackson is mainly due to not all investments being carried at fair value under the regulatory basis and also due to the valuation difference on annuity reserves.
217 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued b Basis of preparation, capital requirements and management Each of the Groups long-term business operations is capitalised to a sufficiently strong level for its individual circumstances.
Details by the Groups major operations are shown below.
i UK insurance operations The FSA rules which govern the Prudential regulation of insurance form part of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, the General Prudential Sourcebook and Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
Overall, the net requirements of the General Prudential Sourcebook are intended to align the capital adequacy requirements for insurance business more closely with those of banking and investment firms and building societies, for example, by addressing tiers of capital, rather than looking at net admissible assets.
An insurer must hold capital resources equal at least to the Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
The Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers also contains rules on Individual Capital Assessments.
Under these rules and the rules of the General Prudential Sourcebook all insurers must assess for themselves the amount of capital needed to back their business.
If the FSA views the results of this assessment as insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance for a firm, which can be superimposed as a requirement.
PAC WPSF and SAIF Under FSA rules, insurers with with-profits liabilities of more than 500 million must hold capital equal to the higher of the MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a with-profit insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly speaking equivalent to the previous required minimum margin under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook and satisfies the minimum EU Standards.
Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two separate measurements of the firms resources requirement, which the FSA refers to as the twin peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: i The requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and ii a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers expected future contractual liabilities together with projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
Available capital of the WPSF and SAIF of 6.4 billion 2008: 5.4 billion represents the excess of assets over liabilities on the FSA realistic basis.
Unlike the previously discussed FRS 27 basis, realistic liabilities on the regulatory basis include the shareholders share of future bonuses.
These amounts are shown before deduction of the risk capital margin RCM which is estimated to be 1.4 billion at 31 December 2009 2008: 2.1 billion.
The FSAs basis of setting the RCM is to target a level broadly equivalent to a Standard & Poors credit rating of BBB and to judge this by ensuring there are sufficient assets to absorb a one in 200 year event.
The RCM calculation achieves this by setting rules for the determination of margins to cover defined stress changes in asset values and yields for market risk, credit risk and termination risk for with-profits policies.
As noted in section D2 f ii, PAC has discretion in its management actions in the case of adverse investment conditions.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary bonuses, crediting rates and total claim values.
To illustrate the flexibility of management actions, rates of regular bonus are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting them at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on the underlying assets.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type, or by date of payment of the premiums or date of issue of the policy, if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change, the PAC board has regard to the overall financial strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended product target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes to regular bonus rates to be gradual over time and changes are not expected to exceed one per cent per annum over any year.
However, discretion is retained as to whether or not a regular bonus is declared each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can be changed.
As regards smoothing of maturity and death benefits, in normal circumstances PAC does not expect most pay-out values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance pay-out values between different policies.
Greater flexibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example, following a significant rise or fall in market values either sudden or over a period of years and in such situations the PAC board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
For surrender benefits, any substantial fall in the market value of the assets of the with-profits sub-fund would lead to changes in the application of MVRs for accumulating with-profits policies, firstly to increase the size of MVRs already being applied and, secondly, to extend the range of policies for which an MVR is applied.
218 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL A STATEMENTS D Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The available capital of 1,607 million 2008: 1,053 million reflects the excess of regulatory basis assets over liabilities of the subsidiaries and funds, before deduction of the capital resources requirement of 952 million 2008: 884 million.
The capital resources requirement for these companies broadly reflects a formula which, for active funds, equates to a percentage of regulatory reserves plus a percentage of death strains.
Death strains represent the payments made to policyholders upon death in excess of amounts explicitly allocated to fund the provisions for policyholders claims and maturities.
ii Jackson The regulatory framework for Jackson is governed by the requirements of the US NAIC approved risk-based capital standards.
Under these requirements life insurance companies report on a formula-based capital standard that they calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items.
The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk.
The available capital of Jackson shown above of 2,488 million 2008: 2,758 million reflects US regulatory basis assets less liabilities including asset valuation reserves.
The asset valuation reserve is designed to provide for future credit-related losses on debt securities and losses on equity investments.
Available capital includes a reduction for the effect of the interest maintenance reserve, which is designed by state regulators to defer recognition of non-credit related realised capital gains and losses and to recognise them rateably in the future.
Jacksons risk-based capital ratio is significantly in excess of regulatory requirements.
Effective for 2008 reporting, the local regulator granted Jackson three permitted practices.
One permitted practice allowed Jackson to carry interest rate swaps at book value, as if statutory hedge accounting were in place, instead of at fair value as would have been otherwise required.
Jackson was also required to demonstrate the effectiveness of its interest rate swap programme pursuant to the Michigan Insurance Code.
The local regulator also granted a permitted practice to allow Jackson to recognise book to tax differences that will reverse within the next three years instead of one year as required by the NAIC in determining the admissible tax asset subject to a limitation of 15 per cent of capital and surplus versus the 10 per cent limitation imposed by the NAIC guidance.
Finally, the local regulator granted a permitted practice to allow Jackson to use an average interest rate in calculating certain regulatory capital requirements.
In 2009 the permitted practice with respect to the interest rate swaps was renewed until 1 October 2010, while the other two expired on 1 October 2009.
The total effect of these permitted practices was to increase statutory surplus by 117 million and 588 million at 31 December 2009 and 2008 respectively, and reduce authorised control level required capital by 57 million at 31 December 2008. iii Asian operations The available capital shown above of 1,129 million 2008: 1,410 million represents the excess of local regulatory basis assets over liabilities before deduction of required capital of 438 million 2008: 407 million.
These amounts have been determined applying the local regulations in each of the operations.
The businesses in Asia are subject to local capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Hong Kong business branch of PAC and its capital requirements are subsumed within those of the PAC long-term fund.
For the other material Asian operations, the details of the basis of determining regulatory capital and regulatory capital requirements are as follows: Singapore In Singapore a risk-based regulatory framework applies rather than one based on a net premium approach.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve, determined using prudent best estimate assumptions and which makes allowance for future bonus, is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of the higher of the assets attributed to participating business and a gross premium reserve calculated on specified assumptions, but without allowance for future bonus, that include prescribed provisions for adverse deviations PADs.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves are held.
For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
219 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued Indonesia Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on a modified net premium basis.
The valuation interest rates are capped at nine per cent for local currency products and five per cent for foreign currency products.
Solvency capital is determined using risk-based capital approach.
Insurance companies in Indonesia are expected to maintain the level of net assets above 120 per cent of solvency capital.
Due to the 2008 financial crisis, the local regulator provided relief in solvency capital and the measure continues until further notice.
Japan Mathematical reserves for traditional business are determined on a net premium basis using prescribed mortality and interest rates.
Interest rates reflect the original pricing assumptions.
With regard to solvency, the adjusted solvency capital assets of the Company must exceed 200 per cent of the risk related capital requirement value at risk.
It is thus a risk-based capital approach.
Malaysia A new risk-based capital framework was adopted from 1 January 2009 to replace the previous framework that used a net premium approach.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed and non-guaranteed benefits determined using best estimate assumptions is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed benefits, determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations PRADs discounted at the risk-free rate.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations PRADs discounted at the risk-free rate are held.
The risk-free rate is derived from a yield curve of zero-coupon spot yields of Malaysian Government Securities.
Vietnam Mathematical reserves are calculated using a modified net premium approach, using a stable set of assumptions agreed with the regulator.
The capital requirement is determined as four per cent of reserves plus a specified percentage of 0.1 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term less than or equal to five years or 0.3 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term of more than five years.
An additional capital requirement of Vietnamese Dong 200 billion is also required for companies transacting unit-linked business.
Korea Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on net premium reserve basis using pricing mortality and prescribed standard interest rates.
For linked business, the value of units is held together with the non-unit reserves calculated in accordance with regulatory standard actuarial methodology.
The capital requirement in Korea has moved to a risk-based regulatory framework in April 2009 with a two-year transition period where insurers can choose between the prior and new framework.
A risk-based regulatory framework is adopted immediately by the Company.
Under the new framework, insurance companies in Korea are expected to maintain a level of free surplus in excess of the capital requirements with the general target level of solvency margin being in excess of 150 per cent of the risk-based capital.
iv Group capital requirements In addition to the requirements at individual company level, FSA requirements under the IGD apply additional prudential requirements for the Group as a whole.
Discussion of the Groups estimated IGD position at 31 December 2009, together with market risk sensitivity disclosure provided to key management, is provided in the business review section of the Groups 2009 Annual Report and in section C. 220 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL A STATEMENTS D c Movements in total available capital Total available capital for the Groups life assurance operations has changed during 2009 as follows: 2009 m Other UK life assurance Asian life subsidiaries assurance WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Group note i note iii note ii note iv total Available capital at 31 December 2008 5,362 1,053 2,758 1,410 10,583 Changes in assumptions 18 23 2 43 Changes in management policy 26 101 75 Changes in regulatory requirements 128 178 306 New business and other factors 1,052 505 398 360 799 Available capital at 31 December 2009 6,432 1,607 2,488 1,129 11,656 Detail on the movement for 2008 is as follows: 2008 m Other UK life assurance Asian life subsidiaries assurance WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Group note i note iii note ii note iv total Available capital at 31 December 2007 8,720 982 2,251 874 12,827 Changes in assumptions 149 624 7 780 Changes in management policy 372 60 432 Changes in regulatory requirements 57 134 77 New business and other factors 3,209 323 564 349 1,973 Available capital at 31 December 2008 5,362 1,053 2,758 1,410 10,583 Notes i WPSF The increase in 2009 reflects primarily the positive investment returns earned on the opening available capital and 18 million positive effect of changes in assumptions on a regulatory basis compared to the 65 million effect of change in assumptions on the IFRS basis as shown in note D2 i.
The decrease in 2008 reflected primarily the negative investment returns earned on the opening available capital and 149 million negative effect of changes in assumptions on a regulatory basis compares to the 83 million effect of change in assumptions on an IFRS basis as shown in note D2 i. ii Jackson The decrease of 270 million in 2009 reflects an underlying increase of 33 million applying the 2009 year end exchange rate of $1.61:1 and 303 million of exchange translation loss.
The increase of 507 million in 2008 reflected an underlying decrease of 358 million applying the 2008 year end exchange rate of $1.44:1 and 865 million of exchange translation gain.
The underlying increase decrease of the available capital of Jackson in 2009 and 2008 includes the effects of capital contributions, dividends paid to the parent company, impairment losses and also the effects of hedging transactions.
iii Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The effect from the changes in assumptions of valuation interest rates on insurance liabilities is broadly matched by the corresponding effect on assets leaving no significant impact on the available capital.
iv Asian life assurance subsidiaries The decrease of 281 million in 2009 reflects an underlying decrease of 152 million applying the relevant 2009 year end exchange rates and 129 million of exchange translation loss.
This underlying decrease of available capital includes the effects of the change to a risk-based capital framework in Malaysia from 1 January 2009 as explained in section b above and also the sale of the Taiwan agency business in June 2009 as described in note I1.
d Transferability of available capital For PAC and all other UK long-term insurers, long-term business assets and liabilities must, by law, be maintained in funds separate from those for the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance business or to shareholders.
Only the established surplus, the excess of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund determined through a formal valuation, may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes.
Distributions from the with-profits sub-fund to shareholders reflect the shareholders one-ninth share of the cost of declared policyholders bonuses.
Accordingly, the excess of assets over liabilities of the PAC long-term fund is retained within that company.
The retention of the capital enables it to support with-profits and other business of the fund by, for example, providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees.
It also provides investment flexibility for the funds assets by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
221 Notes on the Group financial statements D: Life assurance businesses continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued For other UK long-term business subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels which provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the regulatory minimum.
For Jackson, capital retention is maintained at a level consistent with an appropriate rating by Standard & Poors.
Currently Jackson is rated AA.
Jackson can pay dividends on its capital stock only out of earned surplus unless prior regulatory approval is obtained.
Furthermore, dividends which exceed the greater of 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus or statutory net gain from operations for the prior year require prior regulatory approval.
For Asian subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels that provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the local regulatory minimum.
For ring-fenced with-profits funds, the excess of assets over liabilities is retained with distribution tied to the shareholders share of bonuses through declaration of actuarially determined surplus.
The Singapore and Malaysian businesses may, in general, remit dividends to the UK, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
Available capital of the non-insurance business units is transferable to the life assurance businesses after taking account of an appropriate level of operating capital, based on local regulatory solvency targets, over and above basis liabilities.
The economic capital model described in section D1 concentration of risks takes into account restrictions on mobility of capital across the Group with capital transfers to and from business units triggered at a solvency level consistent with these targets.
The model takes into account restrictions on the availability to the Group of the estate of the various with-profits funds throughout the Group.
e Sensitivity of liabilities and total capital to changed market conditions and capital management policies Prudential manages its assets, liabilities and capital locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the different types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result of the diversity of products offered by Prudential and the different regulatory requirements in which it operates, Prudential employs differing methods of asset liability and capital management, depending on the business concerned.
Stochastic modelling of assets and liabilities is undertaken in the UK, Jackson and Asia to assess the economic capital requirements under different confidence intervals and time horizons.
In addition, reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency testing is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the UK, US and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation, management actions and policyholder behaviour under a large number of alternative economic scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years or longer, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, continue to be set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
The sensitivity of liabilities and other components of total capital vary depending upon the type of business concerned and this conditions the approach to asset liability management.
For example, for businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of debt securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
This type of analysis is used in the UK for annuity business and by Jackson for its interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities and stable value products.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the future returns on its investments under different scenarios which best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this methodology extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
f Intra-group arrangements in respect of SAIF Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benefits in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds, under their obligation to maintain the capital position of long-term funds generally, having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
The Groups asset management operations are based in the UK, Asia and the US where they operate different models and under different brands tailored to their markets.
Asset management in the UK is undertaken through M&G which is made up of three distinct businesses, being Retail, Wholesale and Finance, and whose operations include retail asset management, institutional fixed income, pooled life and pension funds, property and private finance.
Asset management in Asia serves both the life companies in Asia by managing the life funds and funds underlying the investment linked products and third-party customers through mutual fund business.
Asia offers mutual fund investment products in a number of countries within the region, allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money market investments.
Asset management in the US is undertaken through PPM America which manages assets for the Groups US, UK and Asian affiliates plus also provides investment services to other affiliated and unaffiliated institutional clients including CDOs, private investment funds, institutional accounts and mutual funds.
In addition, broker-dealer activities are undertaken in the US where trades in securities are carried out for both third-party customers and for its own account.
Other operations covers unallocated corporate activities and includes the head office functions.
222 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E Notes on the Group financial statements E: Asset management including US broker-dealer and other operations E1: Income statement for asset management operations a The profit included in the income statement in respect of asset management operations for the year is as follows: Asset management operations 2009 m 2008 m M&G US Asia Total Total Revenue 799 500 217 1,516 664 Charges 505 496 162 1,163 524 Profit before tax 294 4 55 353 140 Comprising: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 238 4 55 297 345 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 70 70 195 Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 14 14 10 Profit before tax 294 4 55 353 140 Included within revenue for M&G of 799 million 2008: 53 million are realised and unrealised net gains of 176 million 2008: losses of 673 million in respect of consolidated investment funds and Prudential Capital.
The investment funds are managed on behalf of third-parties and are consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for the funds.
The investment losses in respect of the investment funds are non-recourse to M&G and the Group and are added back through charges and consequently there is no impact on the profit before tax.
Excluding the anomaly in respect of the consolidated investment funds the revenue for M&G would be 697 million 2008: 494 million and the charges, 403 million 2008: 413 million.
No impairments were recorded in 2009.
In 2008 operating profit based on longer-term investment returns includes a 28 million charge for an impairment loss on a holding in Lehman Brothers.
Short-term fluctuations for M&G are primarily in respect of unrealised value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio.
b M&G operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: 2009 m 2008 m Asset management fee income 457 455 Other income 13 25 Staff costs 205 184 Other costs 100 111 Underlying profit before performance-related fees 165 185 Performance-related fees 12 43 Operating profit from asset management operations 177 228 Operating profit from Prudential Capital 61 58 Total M&G operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 238 286 The difference between the fees and other income shown above in respect of asset management operations, and the revenue figure for M&G shown in the main table primarily relates to income and investment gains losses earned by Prudential Capital and by investment funds controlled by the asset management operations which are consolidated under IFRS.
223 Notes on the Group financial statements E: Asset management including US broker-dealer and other operations continued E2: Statement of financial position for asset management operations Assets, liabilities and shareholders funds included in the Group consolidated statement of financial position in respect of asset management operations are as follows: Asset management operations 2009 m 2008 m M&G US Asia Total Total Assets Intangible assets: Goodwill 1,153 16 61 1,230 1,230 Deferred acquisition costs 8 8 6 Total 1,161 16 61 1,238 1,236 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 607 161 82 850 295 Financial investments: note i Loans 1,413 1,413 1,763 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 129 8 137 23 note ii Debt securities 1,149 15 1,164 991 note v Other investments 10625 113 462 Deposits 38 13 12 63 64 Total financial investments 2,835 15 40 2,890 3,303 note v Cash and cash equivalents 820 40 110 970 1,472 Total assets 5,423 232 293 5,948 6,306 Equity and liabilities Equity note iii Shareholders equity 1,326 111 222 1,659 1,642 Minority interests 3 3 1 Total equity 1,329 111 222 1,662 1,643 Liabilities Intra Group debt represented by operational borrowings note iv at Group level 2,038 2,038 1,278 Net asset value attributable to external holders of consolidated note v unit trusts and similar funds 410 410 1,065 Other non-insurance liabilities 1,646 121 71 1,838 2,320 Total liabilities 4,094 121 71 4,286 4,663 Total equity and liabilities 5,423 232 293 5,948 6,306 Notes i Loans The M&G loans of 1,413 million 2008: 1,763 million relate to loans and receivables managed by Prudential Capital.
These assets are generally secured but have no external credit ratings.
Internal ratings prepared by the Groups asset management operations as part of the risk management process, are 92 million A to A- 2008: nil, 835 million BBB to BBB- 2008: 1,100 million, 330 million BB to BB- 2008: 663 million and 156 million B to B- 2008: nil.
ii Debt securities Of the total debt securities of 1,164 million in 2009 2008: 991 million 1,149 relates to M&G 2008: 975 million, of which 1,072 million were rated AAA to A by Standard and Poors or Aaa rated by Moodys 2008: 959 million.
iii M&G includes those assets and liabilities in respect of Prudential Capital.
iv Intra Group debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level Operational borrowings for M&G are in respect of Prudential Capitals short-term fixed income security programme and comprise 2,031 million 2008: 1,269 million of commercial paper and 7 million 2008: 9 million of medium-term notes.
v Consolidated unit trusts and similar funds The M&G statement of financial position shown above includes investment funds which are managed on behalf of third-parties.
In respect of these funds, the statement of financial position includes cash and cash equivalents of 269 million, 158 million of other investments, 17 million of other net assets and liabilities and the net asset value attributable to external unit holders of 410 million which are non-recourse to M&G and the Group.
224 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E E3: Regulatory capital positions Asset management operations in the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam and China are subject to regulatory requirements based on fixed operating expenses and other operating considerations.
The movement in the year of the surplus regulatory capital position of these operations, combined with the movement in the IFRS basis shareholders funds for other asset management operations, is as follows: Asset management operations 2009 m 2008 m M&G US Asia Total Total Capital surplus position Beginning of year 157 113 160 430 272 Exchange movement 1 4 11 16 67 Movement in capital requirement 73 6 67 3 Gains during the year 8 5 41 38 136 Capital injection 1 1 Distributions made 5 31 36 42 End of year 221 109 154 484 430 The movement in the year reflects changes in regulatory requirements whilst gains are driven by profits generated during the year.
Distributions consist of dividends paid up to the parent company.
The M&G figures include those for Prudential Capital.
E4: Sensitivity of profit and equity to market and other financial risk i Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asia and PPM America asset management operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase in the relevant Asian exchange rates would have reduced reported profit before tax attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill attributable to Asia and PPM America asset management operations, by 5 million 2008: 5 million and 23 million 2008: 26 million respectively.
ii Other sensitivities to other financial risks for asset management operations The principal sensitivities to other financial risk of asset management operations are credit risk on the bridging loan portfolio as described in note E2 of the Prudential Capital operation and the indirect effect of changes to market values of funds under management.
Due to the nature of the asset management operations there is limited direct sensitivity to movements in interest rates.
Total debt securities held at 31 December 2009 by asset management operations were 1,164 million 2008: 991 million, the majority of which are held by the Prudential Capital operation.
Debt securities held by M&G and Prudential Capital are in general variable rate bonds and so market value is limited in sensitivity to interest rate movements and consequently any change in interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or shareholders equity.
Asset management operations do not hold significant investments in property or equities.
E5: Other operations Other operations consist of unallocated corporate activities relating to Group Head Office and the Asia regional head office, with net income and expenditure for the year of negative 395 million 2008: negative 260 million as detailed in note B1.
An analysis of the assets and liabilities of other operations is shown in note B6.
225 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes F1: Segmental information Year ended 31 December 2009 m UnalloInsurance operations Asset management Total cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Gross premiums earned 5,757 9,197 5,345 20,299 20,299 Outward reinsurance premiums 122 82 119 323 323 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 5,635 9,115 5,226 19,976 19,976 note ii Investment return 17,366 5,070 4,357 420 68 74 27,355 466 26,889 Other income 176 18 110 379 432 143 1,222 12 1,234 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 23,177 14,167 9,693 799 500 217 48,553 454 48,099 Benefits and claims 18,521 13,297 8,083 39,901 39,901 Outward reinsurers share of benefits and claims 214 12 39 265 265 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 1,893 334 1,559 1,559 Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance 20,200 13,285 7,710 41,195 41,195 Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 1,508 383 1,536 505 496 162 4,590 18 4,572 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 13 13 196 209 Loss on sale of Taiwan agency business 559 559 559 Total charges, net of reinsurance 21,708 13,681 9,805 505 496 162 46,357 178 46,535 Profit loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders note i and policyholders returns 1,469 486 112 294 4 55 2,196 632 1,564 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 750 68 818 818 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 719 486 180 294 4 55 1,378 632 746 This is represented in the segmental analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 m UnalloInsurance operations Asset management Total cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 657 459 410 238 4 55 1,823 418 1,405 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 108 27 31 70 236 200 36 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 46 14 60 14 74 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 621 621 621 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 719 486 180 294 4 55 1,378 632 746 226 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F Year ended 31 December 2008 m UnalloInsurance operations Asset management Total cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Gross premiums earned 7,628 6,032 5,333 18,993 18,993 Outward reinsurance premiums 61 67 76 204 204 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 7,567 5,965 5,257 18,789 18,789 note ii Investment return 20,134 5,449 4,229 301 40 73 30,000 202 30,202 Other income 141 1 93 353 369 129 1,086 60 1,146 note iii Total revenue, net of reinsurance 12,426 517 1,121 52 409 202 10,125 142 10,267 Benefits and claims 7,048 1,152 1,276 4,620 4,620 Outward reinsurers share of benefits and claims 146 205 38 389 389 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 4,769 1,046 5,815 5,815 Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance 11,963 947 192 10,824 10,824 Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 739 211 882 29 402 150 2,355 104 2,459 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 11 11 161 172 note iii Total charges, net of reinsurance 11,224 1,169 1,074 29 402 150 8,458 265 8,193 Loss profit before tax being tax attributable to shareholders note i and policyholders returns 1,202 652 47 81 7 52 1,667 407 2,074 Tax credit attributable to policyholders returns 1,579 45 1,624 1,624 Loss profit before tax attributable to shareholders 377 652 92 81 7 52 43 407 450 This is represented in the segmental analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 m UnalloInsurance operations Asset management Total cated Group UK US Asia M&G US Asia segment corporate total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 589 406 231 286 7 52 1,571 288 1,283 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 212 1,058 138 195 1,603 118 1,721 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2 10 12 1 13 Results for the sold Taiwan agency business 1 1 1 Loss profit before tax attributable to shareholders 377 652 92 81 7 52 43 407 450 Notes i The measure is the formal profit loss before tax measure under IFRS but is not the result attributable to shareholders.
ii Investment return principally comprises: Interest and dividends: Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities and derivatives classified as fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39: and Realised gains and losses, including impairment losses, on securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39. iii Total revenue for 2008 was negative 10,267 million whilst charges were a credit of 8,193 million.
These abnormal effects arose from the basis of preparation whereby revenue includes investment appreciation, which was negative in 2008, and charges reflect the allocation, where appropriate, of investment return to policyholder benefits.
227 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F2: Revenue 2009 m 2008 m Long-term business premiums Insurance contract premiums 19,347 17,575 Investment contracts with discretionary participation feature premiums 789 964 Inwards reinsurance premiums 163 454 Less: reinsurance premiums ceded 323 204 note iv Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 19,976 18,789 Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities at fair value through profit and loss 18,175 34,157 Realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 1,164 5,261 Realised gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, previously recognised in other comprehensive income 420 487 Realised gains and losses on loans 115 210 notes i, ii Interest 5,575 6,739 Dividends 1,755 2,023 Other investment income 755 731 Investment income 26,889 30,202 notes iii, iv Fee income from investment contract business and asset management 1,234 1,109 Income from venture investments of the PAC with-profits funds 37 Other income 1,234 1,146 Total revenue 48,099 10,267 Notes i The segmental analysis of interest income is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Insurance operations: UK 3,848 4,802 US 1,051 1,520 Asia 522 49 Asset management operations: M&G 140 310 US 2 1 Asia 2 2 Total segment 5,565 6,684 Unallocated corporate 10 55 Total 5,575 6,739 ii Interest income includes 17 million 2008: 11 million accrued in respect of impaired securities.
iii Fee income includes 1 million 2008: 7 million relating to financial instruments that are not held at fair value through profit and loss.
These fees primarily related to prepayment fees, late fees and syndication fees.
iv The following table provides additional segmental analysis of revenue from external customers: 2009 m Asia US UKIntragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 5,336 9,097 5,822 11 20,244 Asset management 213 499 513 271 954 Unallocated corporate 12 12 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 70 67 145 282 Total revenue from external customers 5,479 9,529 6,202 21,210 228 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F 2008 m Asia US UKIntragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 5,348 5,955 7,711 10 19,004 Asset management 202 414 497 280 833 Unallocated corporate 61 61 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 73 45 172 290 Total revenue from external customers 5,477 6,324 8,097 19,898 Revenue from external customers is made up of the following: 2009 2008 m m Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 19,976 18,789 Fee income from investment contract business and asset management included within Other income 1,234 1,109 Total revenue from external customers 21,210 19,898 In their capacity as fund managers to fellow Prudential Group subsidiaries, M&G, the US and the Asian asset management businesses earn fees for investment management and related services.
Intragroup fees included within asset management revenue were 271 million 2008: 280 million earned 134 million 2008: 162 million by M&G, 67 million 2008: 45 million by the US asset management segment and 70 million 2008: 73 million by the Asian asset management segment.
In 2009, the remaining 11 million 2008: 10 million of intragroup revenue was recognised by UK insurance operations.
These services are charged at appropriate arms length prices, typically priced as a percentage of funds under management.
In Asia, revenue from external customers from no individual country exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total.
The largest country is Hong Kong with a total revenue from external customers of 1,013 million 2008: 1,170 million.
Due to the nature of the business of the Group, there is no reliance on any major customers.
F3: Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 2009 m 2008 m notes i, ii Acquisition costs 1,033 1,185 I2 Staff and pension costs 1,172 913 note iii Administrative and operating cost 2,367 361 notes iv, v Total acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 4,572 2,459 Notes i Acquisition costs in 2009 comprise amounts related to insurance contracts of 871 million 2008: 1,048 million, and investment contracts and asset management contracts of 162 million 2008: 137 million.
These costs include amortisation of 290 million 2008: 520 million and 15 million 2008: 15 million respectively.
ii Acquisition costs also include fee expenses relating to financial liabilities held at amortised cost of nil 2008: nil.
iii Administrative and operating costs include the movement in amounts attributable to external unit holders of the consolidated investment funds of the Group of a charge of 615 million 2008: a credit of 963 million.
iv The total depreciation and amortisation expense is 377 million 2008: 618 million.
Of this amount, 305 million 2008: 535 million relates to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs of insurance contracts and asset management contracts, which is primarily borne by the insurance operations.
The segmental analysis of total depreciation and amortisation expense is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Insurance operations: UK 25 29 US 88 283 Asia 246 279 Asset management operations: M&G 2 6 US 2 1 Asia 4 4 Total segment 367 602 Unallocated corporate 10 16 Total 377 618 229 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F3: Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure continued v Interest expense, excluding interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations, amounted to 89 million 2008: 278 million and is included within total acquisition costs and other operating expenditure as part of investment management expenses.
The segmental analysis of this interest expense is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Insurance operations: UK 28 66 US 32 90 Asia 1 Asset management operations: M&G 34 US Asia Total segment 61 190 Unallocated corporate 28 88 Total 89 278 F4: Finance costs: Interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations Finance costs consist of 196 million 2008: 161 million interest on core debt of the parent company and 13 million 2008: 11 million on US insurance operations surplus notes.
F5: Tax a Total tax charge credit by nature of expense An analysis of the total tax benefit expense of continuing operations recognised in the income statement by nature of benefit expense is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Current tax expense benefit: Corporation tax 500 225 Adjustments in respect of prior years 29 359 Total current tax 529 134 Deferred tax arising from: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 340 1,629 Expense in respect of a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference from a prior period 4 77 Write down or reversal of a previous write down of a deferred tax asset 3 Total deferred tax charge credit 344 1,549 Total tax charge credit 873 1,683 The total tax expense benefit arises as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Current tax expense benefit: UK 527 280 Foreign 2 146 529 134 Deferred tax charge credit: UK 368 1,478 Foreign 24 71 344 1,549 Total 873 1,683 The total tax charge of 873 million for 2009 2008: credit of 1,683 million comprises a charge of 895 million 2008: credit of 1,758 million for UK tax and a credit of 22 million 2008: charge of 75 million for overseas tax.
This tax charge comprises tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
The tax charge attributable to shareholders of 55 million for 2009 2008: credit of 59 million comprises a charge of 176 million 2008: credit of 95 million for UK tax and a credit of 121 million 2008: charge of 36 million for overseas tax.
230 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F The prior year adjustments primarily relate to a change in assumptions regarding available foreign tax credits on overseas dividends and other changes that arose as a result of routine revision of tax returns.
The total deferred tax charge credit arises as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Unrealised gains and losses on investments 35 1,521 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 12 239 Short-term timing differences 105 29 Capital allowances 1 2 Unused tax losses 193 294 Deferred tax charge credit 344 1,549 In 2009, a deferred tax charge of 546 million 2008: credit of 561 million has been taken through other comprehensive income.
Other movements in deferred tax totalling a 69 million credit is mainly comprised of foreign exchange movements.
When these amounts are taken with the deferred tax charge shown above the result is an increase of 0.8 billion in the Groups net deferred tax liability 2008: decrease of 2.1 billion.
b Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax charge is attributable to shareholders and policyholders as summarised in the income statement.
i Summary of pre-tax profit loss and tax charge credit The income statement includes the following items: 2009 m 2008 m Profit loss before tax 1,564 2,074 Tax charge credit attributable to policyholders returns 818 1,624 Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders 746 450 Tax attributable to shareholders profits losses : Tax charge credit 873 1,683 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 818 1,624 Tax charge credit attributable to shareholders returns 55 59 Profit loss from continuing operations after tax 691 391 ii Overview For the purposes of explaining the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit, it is appropriate to consider the sources of profit and tax by reference to those that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders, as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to shareholders policyholders Total shareholders policyholders Total Profit loss before tax 746 818 1,564 450 1,624 2,074 Taxation charge: Expected tax rate 31% 100% 67% 42% 100% 87% Expected tax charge 233 818 1,051 188 1,624 1,812 note v ii Variance from expected tax charge 178 178 129 129 Actual tax charge credit 55 818 873 59 1,624 1,683 Average effective tax rate 7% 100% 56% 13% 100% 81% For the column entitled Attributable to policyholders, the profit before tax represents income, net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of withprofits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Due to the requirements of the financial reporting standards IAS 1 and IAS 12, the profit loss before tax and tax charge reflect the aggregate of amounts that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders.
Profit loss before tax comprises profit attributable to shareholders and pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders of linked and with-profits funds and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
The total tax charge for linked and with-profits business includes tax expense on unit-linked and with-profits funds attributable to policyholders, the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and the shareholders profits.
This feature arises from the basis of taxation applied to life and pension business, principally in the UK, but with similar bases applying in certain Asian operations, and is explained in note iii below.
231 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued Furthermore, the basis of preparation of Prudentials financial statements incorporates the additional feature that, as permitted under IFRS 4, the residual equity of the Groups with-profits funds, i. e. unallocated surplus, is recorded as a liability with transfers to and from that liability reflected in pre-tax profits.
This gives rise to anomalous effective tax rates for profits attributable to policyholders as described in note iv below.
In meeting the reconciliation requirements set out in paragraph 81 c of IAS 12, the presentation shown in this disclosure note seeks to ensure that the explanation of the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit draw properly the distinction between the elements of the profit and tax charge that are attributable to policyholders and shareholders as explained below in notes iv and v respectively.
Due to the nature of the basis of taxation of UK life and pension business as described in note iii below, and the significance of the results of the business to the Group, it is inappropriate to seek to explain the effective tax rate on profit before tax by the traditional approach that would apply for other industries.
The shareholder elements are the components of the profit and tax charge that are of most direct relevance to investors, and it is this aspect that the IAS 12 reconciliation requirement is seeking to explain for companies that do not need to account for both with-profits and unit-linked funds, where tax is borne by the Company on the policyholders behalf and which is not contemplated by the IFRS requirement.
iii Basis of taxation for UK life and pension business Different rules apply under UK tax law for taxing pension business and life insurance business and there are detailed rules for apportioning the investment return and profits of the fund between the types of business.
The investment return referable to pension business, and some other less significant classes of business, is exempt from taxation, but tax is charged on the profit that shareholders derive from writing such business at the corporate rate of tax.
The rules for taxing life insurance business are more complex.
Initially, the UK regime seeks to tax the regulatory basis investment return less management expenses I-E on this business as it arises.
However, in determining the actual tax charge, a calculation of the shareholder profits for taxation purposes from writing life insurance business also has to be made and compared with the I-E profit.
If the shareholder profit is higher than the I-E amount, extra income is attributable to the I-E calculation until the I-E profit equals the shareholder profit.
If on the other hand, the I-E profit is the greater, then an amount equal to the shareholder profit is taxed at the corporate rate of tax, with the remainder of the I-E profit being taxed at the lower policyholder rate of tax.
The purpose of this approach is to ensure that the Company is always at a minimum taxed on the profit, as defined for taxation purposes by reference to the Companys regulatory returns rather than IFRS basis results, that it has earned.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate, with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
It is to be noted that the calculations described are determined using data from the regulatory basis returns rather than the IFRS basis results.
The differences between the regulatory and accounting bases are very significant and extremely complex rendering any explanation in general purpose financial statements to be of little if any use to users.
iv Profits attributable to policyholders and related tax As noted above, it is necessary under IFRS requirements to include the total tax charge of the Company both policyholder and shareholder elements in the tax charge disclosed in the income statement.
For with-profits business, total pre-tax profits reflect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
However, amounts attributable to the equity of with-profits funds are carried in the liability for unallocated surplus.
Also, as described in note iii, UK with-profits business is taxed on a basis that affects policyholders unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and shareholders.
For the PAC with-profits sub-fund, transfers to and from unallocated surplus are recorded in the income statement, so that after charging the total tax borne by the fund, the net balance reflects the statutory transfer from the fund for the year.
The statutory transfer represents 10 per cent of the actuarially determined surplus for the year that is attributable to shareholders.
For SAIF, similar transfers are made.
However, in the case of SAIF, a net nil balance is derived, reflecting the lack of shareholder interest in the financial performance of the fund other than through asset management arrangements.
The accounting anomaly that arises under IFRS is that due to the fact that the net of tax profit attributable to with-profits policyholders is zero, the Companys presentation of pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders reflects an amount that is the mirror image of the tax charge attributable to policyholders.
For unit-linked business, pre-tax profits also reflect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
The pretax profits attributable to policyholders represent fees earned that are used to pay tax borne by the Company on policyholders behalf.
The net of tax profit attributable to policyholders for unit-linked business is thus zero.
The combined effect of these features is such that providing a reconciliation of the tax charge attributable to policyholders to an expected charge based on the standard corporate rate of tax on IFRS basis profits attributable to policyholders is not relevant.
In summary, for accounting purposes, in all cases and for all reporting periods, the apparent effective rate for profit attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus is 100 per cent.
However, it is to be noted that the 100 per cent rate does not reflect a rate paid on the profits attributable to policyholders.
It instead reflects the basis of accounting for unallocated surplus coupled with the distinction made for performance reporting between sources of profit attributable to shareholders, policyholders and unallocated surplus and IFRS requirements in respect of reporting of all pre-tax profits and all tax charges irrespective of policyholder or shareholder economic interest.
232 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F v Reconciliation of tax charge on profit loss attributable to shareholders 2009 m Asian US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 410 459 657 121 1,405 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 31 27 108 130 36 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 46 28 74 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 621 621 Total 180 486 719 279 746 note i Expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 24% 35% 28% 28% 29% Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 25% 35% 28% 36% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 28% 28% 28% Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 25% 25% Expected tax charge credit based on expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 98 161 184 34 409 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 8 9 30 47 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 13 8 21 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 155 155 Total 49 170 201 89 233 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 35 77 29 8 91 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 15 195 14 224 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 137 137 Total 87 272 29 22 178 Actual tax charge credit: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 63 84 213 42 318 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 7 186 30 61 224 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 13 8 21 Loss on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 18 18 Total 38 102 230 111 55 Actual tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 15% 18% 32% 35% 23% Total 21 % 21 % 32% 40% 7% Notes i Expected tax rates for profit loss attributable to shareholders: The expected tax rates shown in the table above reflect the corporate tax rates generally applied to taxable profits of the relevant country jurisdictions.
For Asian operations the expected tax rates reflect the corporate tax rates weighted by reference to the source of profits of operations contributing to the aggregate business result.
The expected tax rate for Other operations reflects the mix of business between UK and overseas operations, which are taxed at a variety of rates.
The rates will fluctuate from year to year dependent on the mix of profits.
ii For 2009, the principal variances arise from differences between the standard corporation tax rate and actual rates due to a number of factors, including: a For Asian long-term operations, profits in certain countries which are not taxable partly offset by the inability to fully recognise deferred tax assets on losses being carried forward: b For Jackson, the ability to fully recognise deferred tax assets on losses brought forward which we were previously unable to recognise together with income subject to a lower level of taxation and the benefit of a deduction from taxable income of a proportion of dividends received attributable to the variable annuity business: c For UK insurance operations, adjustments in respect of the prior year tax charge and different tax bases of UK life business: d For Other operations, the ability to now recognise a deferred tax asset on various tax losses which we were previously unable to recognise offset by adjustments in respect of the prior year tax charge: and e The actual tax rate in relation to Asia excluding the result for the sold Taiwan agency business would have been 13 per cent for the period.
iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is net of attributable restructuring costs and development expenses.
233 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued 2008 m Asian US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 231 406 589 57 1,283 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 138 1,058 212 313 1,721 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2 11 13 Results for sold Taiwan agency business 1 1 Total 92 652 377 267 450 note i Expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 23% 35% 28% 17% 29% Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 28% 35% 28% 28% 32% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 25% 28% 27% Results for sold Taiwan agency business 25% 25% Expected tax credit charge based on expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 54 142 165 10 371 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 38 370 59 88 555 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 3 4 Results for sold Taiwan agency business Total 15 228 106 81 188 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 51 17 57 56 79 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 3 173 8 19 203 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 1 Results for sold Taiwan agency business 4 4 Total 58 156 49 36 129 Actual tax credit charge : Operating profit based on longer-term note iii investment returns 105 125 108 46 292 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 35 197 51 69 352 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 2 3 Results for sold Taiwan agency business 4 4 Total 73 72 57 117 59 Actual tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 45% 31% 18% 81% 23% Total 79% 11% 15% 44% 13% Notes i Expected tax rates for profit attributable to shareholders: The tax rate of 23 per cent reflects the mix of business between UK and overseas operations, which are taxed at a variety of rates.
The rate will fluctuate from year to year dependent on the mix of profits between jurisdictions.
ii For 2008, the principal variances arise from differences between the standard corporation tax rate and actual rates due to a number of factors, including: a For Asian long-term operations, tax losses in several jurisdictions which are not expected to be available for relief against future profits, and losses on investments in jurisdictions which do not provide corresponding tax relief: b For Jackson, the inability to fully recognise deferred tax assets on losses being carried forward which has partially been offset by the benefit of a deduction from taxable income of a proportion of dividends received attributable to the variable annuity business: c For UK insurance operations, prior year adjustments arising from the routine revisions of tax returns, the settlement of outstanding issues with HMRC at an amount below that previously provided and the different tax bases of UK life business: and d For Other operations, the settlement of issues with HMRC at amounts below those previously provided and a reduction in amounts previously provided on outstanding issues with HMRC which has been partially offset by the inability to recognise a deferred tax asset on various tax losses.
234 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F F6: Allocation of investment return between policyholders and shareholders Investment return is attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
A key feature of the accounting policies under IFRS is that the investment return included in the income statement relates to all investment assets of the Group, irrespective of whether the return is attributable to shareholders, or to policyholders or the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, the latter two of which have no net impact on shareholders profit.
The table below provides a breakdown of the investment return for each regional operation attributable to each type of business.
2009 m 2008 m Asian operations Policyholders returns Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 2,539 2,552 With-profits business 1,519 1,611 4,058 4,163 Shareholder returns 373 7 Total 4,431 4,156 US operations Policyholders returns Assets held to back separate account unit-linked liabilities 3,760 5,925 Shareholder returns Realised gains and losses including impairment losses on available-for-sale bonds 529 651 Value movements on derivative hedging programme for general account business 340 311 Interest dividend income and value movements on other financial instruments for which fair value movements are booked in the income statement 1,567 1,478 1,378 516 Total 5,138 5,409 UK operations Policyholder returns Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF 1,438 2,095 Assets held to back unit-linked liabilities 2,947 2,971 With-profits fund excluding SAIF 10,461 14,595 14,846 19,661 Shareholder returns Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL 1,827 684 Other business 1,113 90 2,940 774 Total 17,786 20,435 Unallocated corporate Shareholder returns 466 202 Group Total Policyholder returns 22,664 29,749 Shareholder returns 4,225 453 Total 26,889 30,202 The returns as shown in the table above, are delineated between those returns allocated to policyholders and those allocated to shareholders.
In making this distinction, returns allocated to policyholders are those from investments in which shareholders have no direct economic interest, namely: Unit-linked business in the UK, Asia and SAIF in the UK, for which the investment return is wholly attributable to policyholders: Separate account business of US operations, the investment return of which is also wholly attributable to policyholders: and With-profits business excluding SAIF in the UK and Asia in which the shareholders economic interest, and the basis of recognising IFRS basis profits, is restricted to a share of the actuarially determined surplus for distribution in the UK 10 per cent.
Except for this surplus the investment return of the with-profit funds is attributable to policyholders through the asset-share liabilities or the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability under IFRS 4.
235 Notes on the Group financial statements F: Income statement notes continued F6: Allocation of investment return between policyholders and shareholders continued The investment return related to the types of business above does not impact shareholders profits directly.
However there is an indirect impact, for example, investment-related fees or the effect of investment return on the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses of withprofits funds.
Investment returns for unit-linked and similar products have reciprocal impact on benefits and claims, with a decrease in market returns on the attached pool of assets affecting policyholder benefits on these products.
Similarly for with-profits funds there is a close correlation between increases or decreases in investment returns and the level of combined charge for policyholder benefits and movement on unallocated surplus that arises from such returns.
Shareholder returns For shareholder-backed non-participating business of the UK comprising PRIL and other non-linked non-participating business and of the Asian operations, the investment return is not directly attributable to policyholders and therefore does impact shareholders profit directly.
However, it should be noted that for UK shareholder-backed annuity business, principally PRIL, where the durations of asset and liability cash flows are closely matched, the discount rate applied to measure liabilities to policyholders under grandfathered UK GAAP and under IFRS 4 reflects movements in asset yields after allowances for the future defaults of the backing portfolios.
Therefore, the net impact on the shareholders profits of the investment return of the assets backing liabilities of the UK shareholder-backed annuity business is after taking into account the consequential effect on the movement in policyholder liabilities.
Changes in shareholder investment returns for US operations reflect primarily movements in the investment income, movements in the value of the derivative instruments held to manage the general account assets and liability portfolio, and realised gains and losses.
However, separately reflecting Jacksons types of business an allocation is made to policyholders through the application of crediting rates.
The shareholder investment return for US operations also includes the fair value movement of the derivatives and the movement on the related liabilities of the variable annuity guarantees under Jacksons dynamic hedging programme.
The majority of the investments held to back the US non-participating business are debt securities for which the available-for-sale designation is applied for IFRS basis reporting.
Under this designation the return included in the income statement reflects the aggregate of investment income and realised gains and losses including impairment losses.
However, movements in unrealised appreciation or depreciation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The return on these assets is attributable to shareholders.
F7: Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance Benefits and claims represent payments, including final bonuses, to policyholders in respect of maturities, surrenders and deaths plus the change in technical provisions which primarily represents the movement in amounts owed to policyholders.
Benefits and claims are amounts attributable to policyholders.
The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds represents the transfer to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement of the annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders.
Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds net of reinsurance can be further analysed as follows: 2009 m Asia US UK Total Claims incurred 1,814 4,092 9,875 15,781 Increase in policyholder liabilities 6,230 9,193 8,432 23,855 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 334 1,893 1,559 7,710 13,285 20,200 41,195 2008 m Asia US UK Total Claims incurred 1,552 3,666 10,992 16,210 Decrease in policyholder liabilities 314 2,719 18,186 21,219 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 1,046 4,769 5,815 192 947 11,963 10,824 236 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values The Group designates all financial assets as either fair value through profit and loss, available-for-sale, or as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are designated as either fair value through profit and loss, amortised cost, or as investment contracts with discretionary participating features accounted for under IFRS 4 as described in note A4.
2009 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale receivables value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,307 5,307 5,307 Deposits 12,820 12,820 12,820 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 69,354 69,354 69,354 note i Debt securities 79,083 22,668 101,751 101,751 note ii Loans 8,754 8,754 8,686 note iii Other investments 5,132 5,132 5,132 Accrued investment income 2,473 2,473 2,473 Other debtors 762 762 762 153,569 22,668 30,116 206,353 2009 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying and loss cost basis value value Fair value Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed notes i, H13 operations 3,394 3,394 3,424 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 2,751 2,751 2,751 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 105 1,179 1,284 1,281 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,482 3,482 3,540 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,809 3,809 3,809 Investment contracts with discretionary participation note iv features 24,880 24,880 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 13,840 1,965 15,805 15,866 Other creditors 1,612 1,612 1,612 Derivative liabilities 1,501 1,501 1,501 Other liabilities 877 877 877 19,255 15,260 24,880 59,395 237 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued 2008 m Fair value through Total profit AvailableLoans and carrying and loss for-sale receivables value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,955 5,955 5,955 Deposits 7,294 7,294 7,294 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 62,122 62,122 62,122 note i Debt securities 71,225 23,999 95,224 95,224 note ii Loans 10,491 10,491 10,043 note iii Other investments 6,301 6,301 6,301 Accrued investment income 2,513 2,513 2,513 Other debtors 1,232 1,232 1,232 139,648 23,999 27,485 191,132 2008 m Fair value through Total profit Amortised IFRS 4 carrying and loss cost basis value value Fair value Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed notes i, H13 operations 2,958 2,958 2,137 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 1,977 1,977 1,977 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 158 1,150 1,308 1,320 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 5,572 5,572 5,676 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,843 3,843 3,843 Investment contracts with discretionary participation note iv features 23,446 23,446 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 11,616 2,885 14,501 14,568 Other creditors 1,496 1,496 1,496 Derivative liabilities 4,832 4,832 4,832 Other liabilities 890 890 890 20,449 16,928 23,446 60,823 Notes i As at 31 December 2009, 659 million 2008: 620 million of convertible bonds were included in debt securities and 347 million 2008: 363 million were included in borrowings.
ii Loans and receivables are reported net of allowance for loan losses of 44 million 2008: 27 million.
iii See note G3 for details of the derivative assets included.
The balance also contains the PAC with-profits funds participation in various investment funds and limited liability property partnerships.
iv It is impractical to determine the fair value of investment contracts with discretionary participation features due to the lack of a reliable basis to measure such features.
v For financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss there was no impact on profit from movements in credit risk during 2009 and 2008.
238 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G Determination of fair value The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities as shown in the table above have been determined on the following bases.
The fair values of the financial instruments for which fair valuation is required under IFRS are determined by the use of current market bid prices for quoted investments, or by using quotations from independent third-parties, such as brokers and pricing services or by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which by their nature do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions e. g. market illiquidity.
The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation.
These techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
When determining the inputs into the valuation techniques used priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources, when available, but overall the source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of counterparties.
Such estimates do not reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses from selling the financial instrument being fair valued.
In some cases the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
At 31 December 2008 illiquid market conditions resulted in inactive markets for certain of the Groups financial instruments namely certain asset-backed securities held by Jackson.
As a result, there was generally limited observable market information for these instruments.
Fair value estimates for financial instruments deemed to be in an illiquid market are based on judgements regarding current economic conditions, liquidity discounts, currency, credit and interest rate risks, loss experience and other factors.
These fair values are estimates and involve considerable uncertainty and variability as a result of the inputs selected and may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had the ready market existed, and the differences could be material.
At 31 December 2008 Jackson utilised internal valuation models as best estimate of fair values of all non-agency Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities RMBS and Asset-Backed Securities ABS and certain Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities CMBS.
The use of internal models for these securities which are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis resulted in a fair value that was higher than those provided from pricing services and brokers of 760 million on a total amortised cost of 3.5 billion.
During 2009, improvements were observed in the level of liquidity for these sectors of structured securities with the result that Jackson was able to rely on external prices for these securities as the most appropriate measure of fair value.
At 31 December 2009, nearly all of the non-agency RMBS, ABS and certain CMBS which at 31 December 2008 were valued using internal models due to the dislocated market conditions in 2008 were valued using external prices.
The loans and receivables have been shown net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans has been estimated from discounted cash flows expected to be received.
The rate of discount used was the market rate of interest.
The estimated fair value of derivative financial instruments reflects the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay in an arms length transaction.
This amount is determined using quoted prices if exchange listed, quotations from independent third-parties or valued internally using standard market practices.
In accordance with the Groups risk management framework, all internally generated valuations are subject to assessment against external counterparties valuations.
The fair value of borrowings is based on quoted market prices, where available.
Section A4 provides details of the determination of fair value for investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms notably UK unit-linked policies.
For investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms the fair value is determined based on the present value of future cash flows discounted at current interest rates.
The fair value of other financial liabilities is determined using discounted cash flows of the amounts expected to be paid.
Level 1, 2 and 3 fair value measurement hierarchy of Group financial instruments In March 2009 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was amended by the IASB to require certain additional disclosures to be included in IFRS financial statements.
This includes, as is presented below, a table of financial instruments carried at fair value analysed by level of the IFRS 7 defined fair value hierarchy.
This hierarchy is based on the inputs of the fair value measurement and reflects the lowest level input that is significant to that measurement.
IFRS 7 does not require comparatives to be provided in the year of adoption but we have chosen to provide the table at both 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
239 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued The classification criteria and its application to Prudential can be summarised as follows: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 1 principally includes exchange listed equities, mutual funds with quoted prices, exchange traded derivatives such as futures and options, and national government bonds unless there is evidence that trading in a given instrument is so infrequent that the market could not possibly be considered active.
It also includes other financial instruments including net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds where there is clear evidence that the year end valuation is based on a traded price in an active market.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 2 principally includes corporate bonds and other non-national government debt securities which are valued using observable inputs, together with over-the-counter derivatives such as forward exchange contracts and non-quoted investment fund valued with observable inputs.
It also includes net assets attributable to unitholders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds and investment contract liabilities that are valued using observable inputs.
The nature of Prudentials operations in the US and the UK mean that a significant proportion of the assets backing non-linked shareholder backed business are held in corporate bonds, structured securities and other non-national government debt securities.
These assets, in line with market practice, are generally valued using independent pricing providers in the US and third party broker quotes in the UK and Asia either directly or via third parties such as IDC or Bloomberg.
Such assets have generally been classified as level 2 as the nature of broker quotations means that it does not strictly meet the definition of a level 1 asset.
However these valuations are determined using independent external quotations from multiple sources and are subject to a number of monitoring controls such as monthly price variances, stale price reviews and variance analysis on prices achieved on subsequent trades.
In addition level 2 includes debt securities that are valued internally using standard market practices.
Of the total level 2 debt securities of 83,301 million at 31 December 2009, 6,426 million are valued internally.
The majority of such securities use matrix pricing, which is based on assessing the credit quality of the underlying borrower to derive a suitable discount rate relative to government securities.
Under matrix pricing, the debt securities are priced taking the credit spreads of comparable quoted public debt securities and applying these to the equivalent debt instruments factoring a specified liquidity premium.
The majority of the parameters used in this valuation technique are readily observable in the market and, therefore, are not subject to interpretation.
Level 3: Significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 principally includes investments in private equity funds, investments in property funds which are exposed to bespoke properties or risks, investments which are internally valued or subject to a significant number of unobservable assumptions and certain derivatives which are bespoke or long dated.
It also includes debt securities which are rarely traded or traded only in privately negotiated transactions and hence where it is difficult to assert that these have been based on observable market data.
The inherent nature of the vast majority of these assets means that, in normal market conditions, there is unlikely to be significant change in the specific underlying assets classified as level 3.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held 5,190 million, three per cent of the fair valued financial instruments, within level 3.
Of this amount 3,510 million was held by the Groups participating funds and therefore shareholders profit and equity are not impacted by movements in the valuation of these financial instruments.
Total level 3 assets represented 3.7 per cent of the total assets of the participating funds at 31 December 2009.
Total level 3 liabilities were 348 million out of total participating fund liabilities of 104,817 million at 31 December 2009.
Of the 1,684 million level 3 items, net of derivative liabilities which support non-linked shareholder-backed business 3.6 per cent of the total assets net of derivative liabilities backing this business, 1,653 million are externally valued and 31 million are internally valued.
Internal valuations, which represent only 0.04 per cent of the total assets net of derivative liabilities supporting non-linked shareholder-backed business, are inherently more subjective than external valuations.
If the value of all level 3 investments backing non-linked shareholder-backed business was varied by 10 per cent, the change in valuation would be 3 million, which would reduce shareholders equity by this amount before tax.
Of this amount a 5 million increase would pass through the income statement substantially as part of short-term fluctuations outside of operating profit offset by a 8 million decrease included as part of other comprehensive income, being unrealised movements on assets classified as available-for-sale.
240 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G 31 December 2009 m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 28,688 799 475 29,962 Debt securities 7,063 39,051 1,213 47,327 Other investments including derivative assets 79 1,199 2,170 3,448 Derivative liabilities 54 504 25 583 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 35,776 40,545 3,833 80,154 Borrowing attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 105 105 Investment contract without discretionary participation features held at fair value Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,354 305 323 1,982 Total 34,422 40,135 3,510 78,067 Percentage of total 44% 51% 5% 100% Unit-linked and variable annuity Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 38,616 4 38,620 Debt securities 3,283 5,525 40 8,848 Other investments including derivative assets 30 80 110 Derivative liabilities Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 41,929 5,609 40 47,578 Investment contract without discretionary participation features held at fair value 12,242 12,242 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,324 7 2 1,333 Total 40,605 6,640 38 34,003 Percentage of total 119% 19 % 0% 100% Non-linked shareholder-backed Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 557 36 179 772 Debt securities 5,783 38,725 1,068 45,576 Other investments including derivative assets 155 787 632 1,574 Derivative liabilities 20 703 195 918 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 6,475 38,845 1,684 47,004 Investment contract without discretionary participation features held at fair value 1,598 1,598 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 110 342 42 494 Total 6,365 36,905 1,642 44,912 Percentage of total 14% 82% 4% 100% Group total Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 67,861 839 654 69,354 Debt securities 16,129 83,301 2,321 101,751 Other investments including derivative assets 264 2,066 2,802 5,132 Derivative liabilities 74 1,207 220 1,501 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 84,180 84,999 5,557 174,736 Borrowing attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 105 105 Investment contract without discretionary participation features held at fair value 13,840 13,840 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,788 654 367 3,809 Total 81,392 70,400 5,190 156,982 Percentage of total 52% 45% 3% 100% 241 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued 31 December 2008 m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 30,427 885 509 31,821 Debt securities 6,765 34,858 1,342 42,965 Other investments including derivative assets 77 1,569 2,122 3,768 Derivative liabilities 166 2,861 3,027 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 37,103 34,451 3,973 75,527 Borrowing attributable to with-profits fund held at fair value 158 158 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,010 384 381 1,775 Total 36,093 33,909 3,592 73,594 Percentage of total 49% 46% 5% 100% Unit-linked and variable annuity Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 29,097 114 29,211 Debt securities 2,650 3,615 33 6,298 Other investments including derivative assets 117 87 204 Derivative liabilities Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 31,864 3,816 33 35,713 Borrowing attributable to with-profits fund held at fair value Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 10,309 10,309 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 877 877 Total 30,987 6,493 33 24,527 Percentage of total 126% 26 % 0% 100% Non-linked shareholder-backed Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 745 27 318 1,090 Debt securities 6,514 35,451 3,996 45,961 Other investments including derivative assets 427 1,210 692 2,329 Derivative liabilities 38 1,521 246 1,805 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 7,648 35,167 4,760 47,575 Borrowing attributable to with-profits fund held at fair value Investment contracts without discretionary participation features held at fair value 1,307 1,307 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 311 815 65 1,191 Total 7,337 33,045 4,695 45,077 Percentage of total 16% 73% 11% 100% Group total Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 60,269 1,026 827 62,122 Debt securities 15,929 73,924 5,371 95,224 Other investments including derivative assets 621 2,866 2,814 6,301 Derivative liabilities 204 4,382 246 4,832 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 76,615 73,434 8,766 158,815 Borrowing attributable to with-profits fund held at fair value 158 158 Investment contract without discretionary participation held at fair value 11,616 11,616 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,198 1,199 446 3,843 Total 74,417 60,461 8,320 143,198 Percentage of total 52% 42% 6% 100% 242 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G Reconciliation of movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The following table reconciles the value of level 3 financial instruments at 1 January 2009 to that presented at 31 December 2009.
Total gains and losses recorded in the income statement in the year represents realised gains and losses, including interest and dividend income unrealised gains and losses on financial instruments classified at fair value through profit and loss and foreign exchange movements on an individual entitys overseas investments.
All these amounts are included within investment return within the income statement.
Total gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income includes unrealised gains and losses on debt securities held as available-for-sale within Jackson and foreign exchange movements arising from the retranslation of the Groups overseas subsidiaries and branches.
As highlighted earlier in this note, at 31 December 2008 Jackson had utilised internal valuations for certain structured securities given the illiquidity of the market at that time.
These assets have therefore been classified as level 3 given the unobservable nature of the assumptions within the internal valuation models used.
During the first half of 2009 improvements were observed in the level of liquidity for these structured securities such that external prices based on observable inputs from pricing services or brokers were used to value nearly all of the structured securities at 31 December 2009.
There is therefore a transfer of 2,072 million from level 3 to level 2 during 2009 in respect of these securities.
The remaining transfers in or out of level 3 represent sundry individual asset reclassifications, none of which are materially significant as highlighted in the table opposite.
243 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments designation and fair values continued Total gains losses Total recorded gains in other losses in compreTransfers Transfers At At 1 Jan income hensive into out of 31 Dec 2009 statement income Purchases Sales Settled level 3 level 3 2009 m m m m m m m m m With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 509 3 1 26 56 475 Debt securities 1,342 14 11 50 225 17 142 54 1,213 Other investments including derivative assets 2,122 211 89 403 55 2,170 Derivative liabilities 2 23 25 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,973 230 101 479 359 17 142 54 3,833 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 381 9 49 323 Total 3,592 221 101 528 359 17 142 54 3,510 Unit-linked and variable annuity Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts Debt securities 33 2 1 16 8 4 40 Other investments including derivative assets Derivative liabilities Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 33 2 1 16 8 4 40 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1 1 2 Total 33 2 1 15 8 1 4 38 Non-linked shareholder-backed Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 318 47 34 21 55 24 179 Debt securities 3,996 15 565 104 473 2 200 2,177 1,068 Other investments including derivative assets 692 130 76 153 308 43 2 632 Derivative liabilities 246 93 64 23 1 195 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 4,760 161 675 214 813 2 242 2,203 1,684 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 65 17 6 42 Total 4,695 178 669 214 813 2 242 2,203 1,642 Group total Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 827 50 35 47 111 24 654 Debt securities 5,371 27 575 170 698 27 342 2,235 2,321 Other investments including derivative assets 2,814 81 165 556 363 43 2 2,802 Derivative liabilities 246 91 64 1 220 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 8,766 67 775 709 1,172 27 384 2,261 5,557 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 446 26 6 48 1 367 Total 8,320 41 769 757 1,172 27 383 2,261 5,190 244 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G Of the total gains and losses in the income statement the loss of 41 million in the year comprises, 205 million relates to financial instruments still held at the end of the year, which can be analysed as 41 million for equity securities, 44 million for debt securities, 221 million for other investments, 76 million for derivative liabilities and 25 million for net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
Transfers between level 1 and level 2 There have been no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year.
Interest income and expense The interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2009 from continuing operations was 1,998 million 2008: 2,532 million.
The interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2009 from continuing operations was 366 million 2008: 645 million.
G2: Market risk Interest rate risk The following table shows an analysis of the classes of financial assets and liabilities and their direct exposure to interest rate risk.
Each applicable class of the Groups financial assets or liabilities is analysed between those exposed to fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and those with no direct interest rate risk exposure: 2009 m Not directly Fair value Cash flow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,307 5,307 Deposits 896 11,884 40 12,820 Debt securities 95,817 5,550 384 101,751 Loans 5,923 2,816 15 8,754 Other investments including derivatives 1,381 368 3,383 5,132 104,017 20,618 9,129 133,764 Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 3,394 3,394 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2,128 620 3 2,751 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 804 312 168 1,284 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 611 2,871 3,482 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,098 867 13,840 15,805 Derivative liabilities 647 286 568 1,501 Other liabilities 79 92 706 877 8,761 5,048 15,285 29,094 245 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued 2008 m Not directly F air value Cash flow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,955 5,955 Deposits 1,126 6,084 84 7,294 Debt securities 89,353 5,532 339 95,224 Loans 6,9793,4852710,491 Other investments including derivatives 1,539 686 4,076 6,301 98,997 15,787 10,481 125,265 Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2,958 2,958 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 1,520 454 3 1,977 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 729 482 97 1,308 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 889 4,683 5,572 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 2,885 11,616 14,501 Derivative liabilities 1,185 785 2,862 4,832 Other liabilities 218 105 567 890 10,384 6,509 15,145 32,038 Liquidity analysis i Contractual maturities of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual maturities for applicable classes of financial liabilities, excluding derivative liabilities and investment contracts and that are separately presented.
The financial liabilities are included in the column relating to the contractual maturities at the undiscounted cash flows including contractual interest payments due to be paid assuming conditions are consistent with those of year end.
2009 m Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 carrying 1 year year to years to years to years to Over No stated value or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity Total Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations 3,394 148 588 733 1,394 877 1,343 1,422 6,505 Operational borrowings attributable H13 to shareholder-financed operations 2,751 2,351 435999 31 2,844 Borrowings attributable to H13 with-profits funds 1,284 228 882 102 205 1,417 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,482 3,482 3,482 Other liabilities 877 643 11 14 211 879 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit-trusts and similar funds 3,809 3,809 3,809 Other creditors 1,6121,6121,612 17,209 12,273 1,916 858 1,403 886 1,374 1,838 20,548 246 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G 2008 m Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 carrying 1 year year to years to years to years to Over No stated value or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity Total Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations 2,958 369 422 525 1,273 437 780 1,059 4,865 Operational borrowings attributable H13 to shareholder-financed operations 1,977 1,590 357 18 18 18 65 2,066 Borrowings attributable to H13 with-profits funds 1,308 232 807 249 78 113 1,479 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 5,572 5,572 5,572 Other liabilities 890 646 11 5 228 890 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit-trusts and similar funds 3,843 3,843 3,843 Other creditors 1,496 1,496 1,496 18,044 13,748 1,597 797 1,291 455 923 1,400 20,211 ii Maturity analysis of derivatives The following table provides a maturity analysis of derivative assets and liabilities: 2009 m Total After 1 After 3 carrying 1 year year to years to After value or less 3 years 5 years 5 years Total Net derivative position 279 340 10 1 349 2008 m Total After 1 After 3 carrying 1 year year to years to After value or less 3 years 5 years 5 years Total Net derivative position 2,462 2,464 12 1 2,453 The net derivative positions as shown in the table above comprise the following derivative assets and liabilities: 2009 m 2008 m Derivative assets 1,780 2,370 Derivative liabilities 1,501 4,832 Net derivative position 279 2,462 The majority of derivative assets and liabilities have been included at fair value within the one year or less column representing the basis on which they are managed i. e. to manage principally asset or liability value exposures.
Contractual maturities are not considered essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows for these instruments and in particular the Group has no cash flow hedges.
The only exception is certain identified interest rate swaps which are fully expected to be held until maturity solely for the purposes of matching cash flows on separately held assets and liabilities.
For these instruments the undiscounted cash flows including contractual interest amounts due to be paid under the swap contract assuming conditions are consistent with those at year end are included in the column relating to the contractual maturity of the derivative.
The table below shows the maturity profile for investment contracts on an undiscounted basis to the nearest billion.
This maturity profile has been based on the cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
247 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued 2009 bn Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 undis- 1 year year to years to years to years to Over counted Carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value value Life assurance investment contracts 3 11 13 13 11 17 68 41 2008 bn Total After 1 After 5 After 10 After 15 undis- 1 year year to years to years to years to Over counted Carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value value Life assurance investment contracts 3 18 12 12 9 13 67 38 Most investment contracts have options to surrender early, albeit these are often subject to surrender or other penalties.
It is therefore the case that most contracts could be said to have a contractual maturity of less than one year, but in reality the additional charges and term of the contracts means these are unlikely to be exercised in practice and the more useful information is to present information on expected payment.
The maturity profile above excludes certain corporate unit-linked business with gross policyholder liabilities of 9 billion 2008: 8 billion which has no stated maturity but which is repayable on demand.
This table has been prepared on an undiscounted basis and accordingly the amounts shown for life assurance investment contracts differ from those disclosed on the statement of financial position.
Durations of long-term business contracts, covering insurance and investment contracts, on a discounted basis are included in section D. The vast majority of the Groups financial assets are held to back the Groups policyholder liabilities.
Although asset liability matching is an important component of managing policyholder liabilities both those classified as insurance and those classified as investments, this profile is mainly relevant for managing market risk rather than liquidity risk.
Within each business unit this asset liability matching is performed on a portfolio by portfolio basis.
In terms of liquidity risk a large proportion of the policyholder liabilities contain discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, meaning that many of the Groups liabilities are expected to be held for the long term.
Much of the Groups investment portfolios is in marketable securities, which can therefore be converted quickly to liquid assets.
For the reasons above an analysis of the Groups assets by contractual maturity is not considered necessary to evaluate the nature and extent of the Groups liquidity risk.
Credit risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk before any allowance for collateral or allocation of losses to policyholders is represented by the carrying value of financial instruments on the balance sheet that have exposures to credit risk.
These assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, deposits, debt securities, loans and derivative assets, the carrying value of which are disclosed at the start of this note and note G3 for derivative assets.
The collateral in place in relation to derivatives is described in G4.
Notes D2, D3 and D4, describe the security for these loans held by the Group, as disclosed at the start of this note.
Of the total loans and receivables held 64 million 2008: 21 million are past their due date but have not been impaired.
Of the total past due but not impaired, 53 million are less than one year past their due date and 11 million is more than six months but less than one year past their due date 2008: 21 million and nil respectively.
The Group expects full recovery of these loans and receivables.
No further analysis has been provided of the age of financial assets that are past due at the end of the reporting period but not impaired as the amounts are immaterial.
No further analysis has been provided of the element of loans and receivables that was neither past due nor impaired for the total portfolio.
This is on the grounds of immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired elements and the total portfolio.
Financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated amounted to 55 million 2008: 1 million.
There was no collateral held against loans that are past due and impaired or that are past due but not impaired at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
In addition, during the year the Group took possession of 15 million 2008: 66 million of other collateral held as security, which mainly consists of assets that could be readily convertible into cash.
248 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G Currency risk As at 31 December 2009, the Group held 19 per cent 2008: 20 per cent and 13 per cent 2008: 13 per cent of its financial assets and financial liabilities respectively, in currencies, mainly US dollar and Euro, other than the functional currency of the relevant business unit.
The financial assets, of which 74 per cent 2008: 77 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, allow the PAC with-profits fund to obtain exposure to foreign equity markets.
The financial liabilities, of which 34 per cent 2008: 38 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, mainly relate to foreign currency borrowings.
The exchange risks inherent in these exposures are mitigated through the use of derivatives, mainly forward currency contracts note G3 below.
The amount of exchange losses recognised in the income statement in 2009, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss, is 201 million 2008: 638 million gains.
This constitutes 41 million losses 2008: 32 million gains on Medium Term Notes MTN liabilities and 160 million of net losses 2008: 606 million net gains, mainly arising on investments of the PAC with-profits fund.
The gains losses on MTN liabilities are fully offset by value movements on cross-currency swaps, which are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
G3: Derivatives and hedging Derivatives The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit default swaps.
All over-the-counter derivative transactions are conducted under standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements.
The total fair value balances of derivative assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2009 were as follows: 2009 m UK US Asian insurance insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management to a segment total Derivative assets 910 519 150 48 153 1,780 Derivative liabilities 709 461 146 49 136 1,501 201 58 4 1 17 279 2008 m UK US Asian insurance insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management to a segment total Derivative assets 1,326 675 15 74 280 2,370 Derivative liabilities 3,401 863 32 292 244 4,832 2,075 188 17 218 36 2,462 The above derivative assets are included in other investments in the primary statements.
249 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G3: Derivatives and hedging continued The notional amount of the derivatives, distinguishing between UK insurance and US operations, was as follows: 2009 m UK insurance operations US insurance operations Notional amount on which Notional amount on which future payments are based future payments are based As at 31 December 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability Cross-currency swaps 808 881 376 168 Equity index call options Swaptions 900 900 12,694 5,263 Futures 2,267 2,987 1,534 Forwards 20,235 20,184 Inflation swaps 2,337 2,205 Credit default swaps 90 12 Single stock options Credit derivatives 189 Put options 9,072 Equity options 30 552 3,246 562 Total return swaps 420 421 Interest rate swaps 5,529 5,710 1,579 3,957 2008 m UK insurance operations US insurance operations Notional amount on which Notional amount on which future payments are based future payments are based As at 31 December 2008 Asset Liability Asset Liability Cross-currency swaps 838 1,014 448 218 Equity index call options 17 32 Swaptions 980 980 28,863 Futures 3,286 4,055 460 Forwards 14,315 16,489 Inflation swaps 2,559 2,482 Credit default swaps 123 14 Single stock options 1 1 Credit derivatives 31 177 Put options 6,573 Equity options 2 4 3,785 5 Total return swaps 479 514 313 Interest rate swaps 5,074 5,245 1,704 4,514 In addition, the other operations, including the Group Treasury function and the Asian operations, have cross-currency swap assets and liabilities with notional amounts of 819 million 2008: 1,503 million and 122 million 2008: 605 million respectively, forward currency contracts assets and liabilities with notional amounts of 570 million 2008: 1,419 million and 958 million 2008: 2,310 million respectively, interest rate swaps assets and liabilities of 793 million 2008: 1,407 million and of 522 million 2008: 2,316 million, respectively, and cliquet options assets of 7 million 2008: 1,525 million.
250 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS G These derivatives are used for efficient portfolio management to obtain cost effective and efficient exposure to various markets in accordance with the Groups investment strategies and to manage exposure to interest rate, currency, credit and other business risks.
See also note D3 for use of derivatives by the Groups US operations.
The Group uses various interest rate derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility.
The UK insurance operations use various currency derivatives in order to limit volatility due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations arising on securities denominated in currencies other than sterling.
In addition, total return swaps and interest rate swaps are held for efficient portfolio management.
As part of the efficient portfolio management of the PAC with-profits fund, the fund may, from time to time, invest in cash-settled forward contracts over Prudential plc shares, which are accounted for consistently with other derivatives.
This is in order to avoid a mismatch of the with-profits investment portfolio with the investment benchmarks set for its equity-based investment funds.
The contracts will form part of the long-term investments of the with-profits fund.
These contracts are subject to a number of limitations for legal and regulatory reasons.
Some of the Groups products, especially those sold in the US, have certain guarantee features linked to equity indexes.
A mismatch between product liabilities and the performance of the underlying assets backing them, exposes the Group to equity index risk.
In order to mitigate this risk, the relevant business units purchase swaptions, equity options and futures to match asset performance with liabilities under equity-indexed products.
The US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest-rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These entities have purchased some swaptions in order to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets.
Hedging The Group has formally assessed and documented the effectiveness of the following hedges under IAS 39.
Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate derivatives to hedge the interest exposures on its US$300 million, 6.5 per cent perpetual subordinated capital securities.
In addition, the Group similarly used interest rate derivatives to hedge the exposure on its US$1 billion, 6.5 per cent perpetual subordinated capital securities until this hedge was cancelled in March 2009.
Where the hedge relationship is fide-designated and re-designated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item up to the point of fide-designation continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item and is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to the first break clause date of the perpetual subordinated capital securities.
The Group has chosen to designate as a fair value hedge certain fixed to floating rate swaps which hedge the fair value exposure to interest rate movements of certain of the Groups operational borrowings.
The fair value of the derivatives designated as fair value hedges above at 31 December 2009, were an asset of 7 million and liability of 1 million 2008: asset of 17 million and liability of nil.
Movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments of a net loss of 11 million 2008: net loss of 4 million and the hedged items of a net gain of 11 million 2008: net gain of 7 million are recorded in the income statement in respect of the fair value hedges above.
Cash flow hedges The Group has no cash flow hedges in place.
Net investment hedges The Group entered into a series of rolling one to three-month period forward currency transactions which together formed a net investment hedge of the currency exposure of the net investments in the US operations.
The programme ceased in August 2009.
At 31 December 2008 US$600 million of the forward currency contracts were designated as a partial net investment hedge of the currency exposure of the net investments in the US operations.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at 31 December 2008 was a liability of 56 million, of which a liability of 17 million was designated as a net investment hedge of the currency exposure of the net investments in the US operations.
In addition, the Group has designated perpetual subordinated capital securities totalling US$1.55 billion as a net investment hedge to edge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The carrying value of the subordinated capital securities was 963 million 2008: 1,059 million as at 31 December 2009.
The foreign exchange gain of 118 million 2008: loss of 299 million on translation of the borrowings to pounds sterling at the statement of financial position date is recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity.
The net investment hedges were 100 per cent effective.
251 Notes on the Group financial statements G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G4: Derecognition and collateral Securities lending and reverse repurchase agreements The Group has entered into securities lending including repurchase agreements whereby blocks of securities are loaned to thirdparties, primarily major brokerage firms.
The amounts above the fair value of the loaned securities required to be held as collateral by the agreements depend on the quality of the collateral, calculated on a daily basis.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position, rather they are retained within the appropriate investment classification.
Collateral typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities and letters of credit.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had lent 10,446 million 2008: 12,617 million of which 7,910 million 2008: 9,701 million was lent by the PAC with-profits fund of securities and held collateral under such agreements of 10,669 million 2008: 13,497 million of which 8,086 million 2008: 9,924 million was held by the PAC with-profits fund.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had entered into reverse repurchase transactions under which it purchased securities and had taken on the obligation to resell the securities for the purchase price of 1,587 million 2008: 588 million, together with accrued interest.
Collateral and pledges under derivative transactions At 31 December 2009, the Group had pledged 644 million 2008: 1,154 million for liabilities and held collateral of 586 million 2008: 829 million in respect of over-the-counter derivative transactions.
G5: Impairment of financial assets In accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note A4, impairment reviews were performed for available-for-sale securities and loans and receivables.
In addition, impairment reviews were undertaken for the reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, impairment losses of 647 million 2008: 525 million were recognised for available-forsale securities and loans and receivables.
These were 630 million 2008: 497 million in respect of available-for-sale securities held by Jackson and 17 million 2008: 28 million in respect of loans and receivables.
The 2009 impairment charge for loans and receivables of 17 million relates to loans held by the UK with-profits fund and mortgage loans held by Jackson.
The 2008 impairment charge for loans and receivables of 28 million related primarily to loans held by the UK with-profits fund.
Impairment losses recognised on available-for-sale securities amounted to 630 million 2008: 497 million.
Of this amount, 86 per cent 2008: 29 per cent has been recorded on structured asset-backed securities, primarily due to reduced cash flow expectations on such securities that are collateralised by diversified pools of primarily below investment grade securities.
Of the losses related to the impairment of fixed maturity securities, the top five individual corporate issuers made up 11 per cent 2008: 27 per cent, reflecting a deteriorating business outlook of the companies concerned.
The impairment losses have been recorded in investment return in the income statement.
In 2009, the Group realised gross losses on sales of available-for-sale securities of 134 million 2008: 184 million with 60 per cent 2008: 55 per cent of these losses related to the disposal of fixed maturity securities of five 2008: six individual issuers, which were disposed of to rebalance the portfolio in the US operations in response to the unstable mortgage lending.
The effect of those reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying the estimates that underpin the assessment of whether impairment has taken place depends on the factors described in note A3.
A key indicator of whether such impairment may arise in future, and the potential amounts at risk, is the profile of gross unrealised losses for fixed maturity securities accounted for on an available-for-sale basis by reference to the time periods by which the securities have been held continuously in an unrealised loss position and by reference to the maturity date of the securities concerned.
For 2009 the amounts of gross unrealised losses for fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale under IFRS in an unrealised loss position was 966 million 2008: 3,178 million.
Notes B1 and D3 provide further details on the impairment charges and unrealised losses of Jacksons available-for-sale securities.
252 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders a Goodwill 2009 m 2008 m Cost At 1 January 1,461 1,461 Disposal of Taiwan Agency business 44 Additional consideration paid on previously acquired businesses 13 At 31 December 1,430 1,461 Aggregate impairment At 1 January and 31 December 120 120 Net book amount at 31 December 1,310 1,341 Impairment testing Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other groups of assets and thus is assigned to cash generating units CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
These CGUs are based upon how management monitors the business and represent the lowest level to which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
An allocation to CGUs of the Groups goodwill attributable to shareholders is shown below: 2009 m 2008 m M&G 1,153 1,153 Other 157 188 1,310 1,341 Other represents goodwill amounts allocated across CGUs in Asia and US operations.
These goodwill amounts are not individually material.
Assessment of whether goodwill may be impaired With the exception of M&G, the goodwill attributable to shareholders in the statement of financial position mainly relates to acquired life businesses.
The Company routinely compares the aggregate of net asset value and acquired goodwill on an IFRS basis of acquired life business with the value of the business as determined using the EEV methodology, as described in note D1.
Any excess of IFRS over EEV carrying value is then compared with EEV basis value of current and projected future new business to determine whether there is any indication that the goodwill in the IFRS statement of financial position may be impaired.
The assumptions underpinning the Groups EEV basis of reporting are included in the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the CGUs carrying amount, including any goodwill, with its recoverable amount.
M&G The recoverable amount for the M&G CGU has been determined by calculating its value in use.
This has been calculated by aggregating the present value of future cash flows expected to be derived from the M&G operating segment based upon management projections.
The discounted cash flow valuation has been based on a five-year plan prepared by M&G, and approved by management, and cash flow projections for later years.
The value in use is particularly sensitive to a number of key assumptions as follows: i The set of economic, market and business assumptions used to derive the five-year plan.
The direct and secondary effects of recent developments, e. g. the fall in global equity markets, are considered by management in arriving at the expectations for the financial projections for the plan.
ii The assumed growth rate on forecast cash flows beyond the terminal year of the plan.
A growth rate of 2.5 per cent 2008: 2.5 per cent has been used to extrapolate beyond the plan period representing managements best estimate view of the long-term growth rate of the business after considering the future and past growth rates and external sources of data.
iii The risk discount rate.
Differing discount rates have been applied in accordance with the nature of the individual component businesses.
For retail and institutional business a risk discount rate of 12 per cent 2008: 12 per cent has been applied to post-tax cash flows.
The pre-tax risk discount rate was 16 per cent 2008: 16 per cent.
Management have determined the risk discount rate by reference to an average implied discount rate for comparable UK listed asset managers calculated by reference to risk-free rates, equity risk premiums of five per cent and an average beta factor for relative market risk of comparable UK listed asset managers.
A similar approach has been applied for the other component businesses of M&G.
iv That asset management contracts continue on similar terms.
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of M&G to fall below its carrying amount.
253 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders continued Japanese life company The aggregate goodwill impairment of 120 million at 31 December 2009 and 2008 relates to the goodwill held in relation to the Japanese life operation which was impaired in 2005. b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to shareholders consist of: 2009 m 2008 m Deferred acquisition costs DAC related to insurance contracts as classified under IFRS 4 3,823 5,097 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classified as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 107 108 3,930 5,205 Present value of acquired in-force policies for insurance contracts as classified under IFRS 4 52 64 Present value of future profits of acquired investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classified as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 1 1 Distribution rights 66 79 119 144 Total of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 4,049 5,349 Arising in: UK insurance operations 127 134 note i US insurance operations 3,092 3,962 Asian insurance operations 822 1,247 Asset management operations 8 6 4,049 5,349 Note i The amount in respect of US insurance operations comprises entirely of DAC and includes 1,938 million 2008: 1,676 million in respect of variable annuity business, 1,164 million 2008: 1,134 million in respect of other business and 10 million 2008: 1,152 million in respect of cumulative shadow DAC.
The movement in the year comprises: 2009 m 2008 m Balance at 1 January 5,349 2,836 Additions 1,071 959 Amortisation to income statement 316 551 Exchange differences 550 1,274 note D3h Change in shadow DAC 1,069 831 DAC movement on sale of Taiwan agency business 436 Balance at 31 December 4,049 5,349 As a result of changes following the implementation of amendments to IAS 1, exchange losses of 239 million relating to US operations charge in shadow DAC have been reclassified as exchange movement within exchange differences in the table above.
Amortisation is included in the acquisition costs and other operating expenditures line in the income statement.
254 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Deferred acquisition costs at 1 January 5,097 2,644 Additions 1,054 887 Amortisation 286 520 Exchange differences 537 1,255 Change in shadow DAC 1,069 831 DAC movement on sale of Taiwan agency business 436 Deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 3,823 5,097 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts attributable to shareholders Incremental costs associated with the origination of investment management contracts written by the Groups insurance and asset management businesses are capitalised and amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
2009 m 2008 m At 1 January Gross amount 148 136 Accumulated amortisation 40 23 Net book amount 108 113 Additions through internal development 14 12 Amortisation 15 17 At 31 December 107 108 Comprising: Gross amount 162 148 Accumulated amortisation 55 40 Net book amount 107 108 Present value of acquired in-force business of long-term business contracts attributable to shareholders The present value of acquired in-force business PVAIF relating to investment contracts without discretionary participation features represents the contractual right to benefit from providing these investment management services in the future.
The fair value is measured as the present value of the future profits of the asset management component of these contracts.
These contracts are accounted for under the provisions of IAS 18.
The remainder of the PVAIF balance relates to insurance contracts and is accounted for under UK GAAP as permitted by IFRS 4.
The present value of future profits of acquired asset management contracts relates to unit-linked contracts acquired as part of the M&G acquisition in 1999.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other operating expenditure line in the income statement over the period of provision of asset management services as those profits emerge.
2009 m 2008 m Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contracts management contracts management At 1 January Cost 184 12 161 12 Accumulated amortisation 120 11 102 8 Net book amount 64 1 59 4 Exchange differences 6 14 Amortisation charge 6 9 3 At 31 December 52 1 64 1 Comprising: Cost 175 12 184 12 Accumulated amortisation 123 11 120 11 Net book amount 52 1 64 1 255 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders continued Distribution rights attributable to the Asian insurance operations Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in respect of the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a fixed period of time.
The distribution rights amounts are amortised over the term of the distribution contracts.
2009 m 2008 m At 1 January Gross amount 84 16 Accumulated amortisation 5 0 79 16 Additions 3 62 Amortisation charge 9 4 Exchange differences 7 5 At 31 December 66 79 Comprising: Gross amount 79 84 Accumulated amortisation 13 5 66 79 H2: Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds a Goodwill in respect of acquired investment subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 2009 m 2008 m At 1 January 174 192 Impairment 50 18 At 31 December 124 174 All the goodwill relates to the UK insurance operations segment.
The only venture fund investment consolidated by the Group relates to an investment by PAC with-profits fund managed by M&G.
The goodwill shown in the table above relates to this venture fund investment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment for this investment by comparing the investments carrying value including goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the investment was determined by calculating its fair value less costs to sell.
The fair value has been determined by using the discounted cash flow valuation.
The valuation is based on cash flow projections to 2015 prepared by management after considering the historical experience and future growth rates of the business.
The key assumption applied in the calculation is the risk discount rate of 14 per cent which has been derived by reference to risk-free rates and an equity premium risk.
In 2009, following the impairment testing carried out, 50 million 2008: 18 million of the goodwill was deemed to be impaired and written off accordingly.
This impairment charge is recorded under acquisition costs and other operating expenditure but are also taken account of in determining the charge credit in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
Accordingly, the charge does not affect shareholders profits or equity.
b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets Other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to with-profits funds consist of: 2009 m 2008 m Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund 9 13 Distribution rights attributable to with-profits funds of the Asian insurance operations 97 113 106 126 256 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profit fund The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m At 1 January 13 19 Additions Amortisation charge 4 6 At 31 December 9 13 The above costs relate to non-participating business written by the PAC with-profits sub-fund.
No deferred acquisition costs are established for the participating business.
Distribution rights attributable to with-profit funds of the Asian insurance operations Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in relation to the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a fixed period of time.
2009 m 2008 m At 1 January Gross amount 115 Accumulated amortisation 2 113 Additions 115 Amortisation charge 4 2 Exchange differences 12 At 31 December 97 113 Comprising: Gross amount 103 115 Accumulated amortisation 6 2 97 113 H3: Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2009 m 2008 m Insurance contract liabilities 1,114 1,176 Claims outstanding 73 64 1,187 1,240 The movement on reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m At 1 January 1,176 724 Movement in the year 24 243 Foreign exchange translation differences 86 209 At 31 December 1,114 1,176 257 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H4: Tax assets and liabilities Assets Of the 636 million 2008: 657 million current tax recoverable, the majority is expected to be recovered in one year or less.
Deferred tax asset 2009 m 2008 m Unrealised losses on investments 1,156 1,267 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 20 12 Short-term timing differences 1,228 1,282 Capital allowances 18 16 Unused deferred tax losses 286 309 Total 2,708 2,886 The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2009 and 2008 arises in the following parts of the Group: 2009 m 2008 m UK insurance operations: SAIF 2 7 PAC with-profits fund including PAL 141 272 Other 149 234 US insurance operations 1,944 1,969 Asian insurance operations 132 101 Other operations 340 303 2,708 2,886 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a trading or capital nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Accordingly, for the 2009 results and statement of financial position at 31 December 2009, the possible tax benefit of approximately 257 million 2008: 211 million, which may arise from capital losses valued at approximately 1.2 billion 2008: 1 billion, is sufficiently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
In addition, a potential deferred tax asset of 607 million 2008: 678 million, which may arise from tax losses and other potential temporary differences totalling 2.1 billion 2008: 2.2 billion is sufficiently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
Forecasts as to when the tax losses and other temporary differences are likely to be utilised indicate that they may not be utilised in the short term.
Liabilities The current tax liability increased to 1,215 million 2008: 842 million primarily due to the increase in policyholder tax payable in the UK.
The Group considers that whilst the UK tax provision established within the current tax liability represents an appropriate provision for matters under discussion with HM Revenue & Customs in the UK, it is not possible to estimate the amount of the tax liability expected to be settled in one year or less due to the uncertainty over when these issues will be agreed.
Deferred tax liability 2009 m 2008 m Unrealised gains on investments 1,744 765 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 961 968 Short-term timing differences 1,159 1,490 Capital allowances 8 6 3,872 3,229 Unprovided deferred income tax liabilities on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures are considered to be insignificant due to the availability of various UK tax exemptions and reliefs.
Discounting Deferred tax asset and liability balances have not been discounted.
258 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H H5: Accrued investment income and other debtors 2009 m 2008 m Accrued investment income Interest receivable 1,718 1,775 Other 755 738 Total 2,473 2,513 Other debtors Premiums receivable: From policyholders 148 194 From intermediaries 17 17 From reinsurers 82 253 Other 515 768 Total 762 1,232 Total accrued investment income and other debtors 3,235 3,745 Of the 3,235 million 2008: 3,745 million of accrued investment income and other debtors, 134 million 2008: 114 million is expected to be settled after one year or more.
H6: Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise Group occupied properties, development property and tangible assets.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of these items from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Group occupied Development Tangible property property assets Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 Cost 172 655 612 1,439 Accumulated depreciation 21 406 427 Net book amount 151 655 206 1,012 Year ended 31 December 2008 Opening net book amount 151 655 206 1,012 Exchange differences 45 40 85 Depreciation charge 3 67 70 Additions 3 152 85 240 Disposals 1 23 24 Reclassification from to held for investment 68 676 608 Closing net book amount 263 131 241 635 At 1 January 2009 Cost 292 131 717 1,140 Accumulated depreciation 29 476 505 Net book amount 263 131 241 635 Year ended 31 December 2009 Opening net book amount 263 131 241 635 Exchange differences 9 31 40 Depreciation charge 4 70 74 Additions 2 89 91 Disposals including amounts disposed of with the Taiwan agency business 99 15 114 Reclassify as investment property 131 131 Closing net book amount 153 214 367 At 31 December 2009 Cost 173 661 834 Accumulated depreciation 20 447 467 Net book amount 153 214 367 In line with changes issued by the IASB as part of its Annual Improvement Project in May 2008 as shown in note A5, all development properties have been reclassified as investment properties see note H7.
The total property, plant and equipment relates to continuing operations only.
259 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H6: Property, plant and equipment continued Capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment by segment 2009 m 2008 m Insurance operations: UK 5 154 US 12 18 Asia 65 40 Asset management operations: M&G 3 US 1 2 Asia 2 8 Total segment 85 225 Unallocated corporate 6 15 Total 91 240 H7: Investment properties Investment properties principally relate to the PAC with-profits fund and are carried at fair value.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment properties at the beginning and end of the year is set out below: 2009 m 2008 m At 1 January 11,992 13,688 Reclassification of development property 131 Additions: Resulting from acquisitions 184 1,414 Resulting from expenditure capitalised 133 218 Resulting from acquisitions through business combinations 1 463 Disposals including amounts disposed of with the Taiwan agency business 1,220 1,010 Net loss from fair value adjustments 203 3,784 Net foreign exchange differences 113 395 Transfers to held for sale assets Transfers to owner occupied properties 68 Other transfers from property, plant and equipment 676 At 31 December 10,905 11,992 In line with changes issued by the IASB as part of its Annual Improvement Project in May 2008 as shown in note H6 and A5 all development properties with a total cost of 131 million have been reclassified as investment properties at 1 January 2009.
At this date these investments had a fair value of 152 million.
The initial gain of 21 million is included as part of net loss from fair value adjustments.
The income statement includes the following items in respect of investment properties: 2009 m 2008 m Rental income from investment properties 754 726 Direct operating expenses including repairs and maintenance expenses arising from investment properties: That generated rental income during the year 131 109 That did not generate rental income during the year 1 Total direct operating expenses 131 110 260 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H Investment properties of 3,177 million 2008: 3,559 million are held under finance leases.
A reconciliation between the total of future minimum lease payments at the statement of financial position date, and their present value is shown below: 2009 m 2008 m Future minimum lease payments at 31 December 1,683 963 Future finance charges on finance leases 1,517 863 Present value of minimum lease payments 166 100 Future minimum lease payments are due as follows: Less than 1 year 9 5 1 to 5 years 38 22 Over 5 years 1,636 936 Total 1,683 963 The present values of these minimum lease payments are: Less than 1 year 8 5 1 to 5 years 38 22 Over 5 years 120 73 Total 166 100 Contingent rent is that portion of the lease payments that is not fixed in amount but is based on the future value of a factor that changes other than with the passage of time.
The Groups policy is to rent investment properties to tenants through operating leases.
Minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases are receivable in the following periods: 2009 m 2008 m Less than 1 year 662 742 1 to 5 years 2,282 2,599 Over 5 years 7,792 9,106 Total 10,736 12,447 The total minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable sub-leases for land and buildings at 31 December 2009 are 3,684 million 2008: 3,730 million.
H8: Investments in associates and joint ventures Investments in associates The Group had three associates at 31 December 2009 2008: four that are accounted for using the equity method.
The Groups associates are a 30 per cent interest in The Nam Khang, a Vietnamese property developer, a 30 per cent interest in Apollo Education and Training Organisation Vietnam and a 25 per cent interest in OYO Developments Limited.
IFonline Group Limited IFonline is no longer an associate of the Group following a restructuring of that entity in April 2009.
The Group also has investments in associates which meet the IAS 28 criteria for measurement at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IAS 39.
261 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H8: Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Associates accounted for using the equity method A summary of the movements in investments in associates accounted for using the equity method in 2009 and 2008 is set out below: Total Share of Share of Share of carrying capital reserves net assets Goodwill value m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 9 5 4 8 12 Impairments of goodwill 6 6 Exchange translations and other movements 3 1 4 4 Share of loss for the year after tax Balance at 31 December 2008 12 4 8 2 10 Exchange translation and other movements 7 4 3 1 3 Share of loss for the year after tax 1 Balance at 31 December 2009 5 5 1 6 There have been no changes recognised in the other comprehensive income of associates that would also be recognised in the other comprehensive income by the Group.
Exchange translation and other movements for 2009 mainly relate to the investment in IFonline mentioned above.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and profit and loss of associates accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2009 and 2008 is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Financial position Total assets excluding goodwill 5 12 Total liabilities 4 Net assets 5 8 Results of operations Revenue 1 3 Profit in the year Associates carried at fair value through profit and loss The Groups associates that are carried at fair value through profit and loss comprise investments in OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts, and venture capital investments of the PAC with-profits fund where the Group has significant influence.
These investments are incorporated both in the UK and overseas, and some have year ends which are noncoterminous with that of the Group.
In these instances, the investments are recorded at fair value at 31 December 2009 based on valuations or pricing information at that specific date.
The aggregate fair value of associates carried at fair value through profit and loss where there are published price quotations is approximately 6 billion 2008: 4 billion at 31 December 2009.
The aggregate assets of these associates are approximately 9 billion 2008: 8 billion.
Aggregate liabilities, excluding liabilities to unit holders and shareholders for unit trusts and OEICs, are approximately 2 billion 2008: 2 billion.
Fund revenues, with revenue arising in unit trusts and OEICs deemed to constitute the investment return for these vehicles, were approximately 0.8 billion 2008: 0.8 billion and net loss in the year, excluding unit trusts and OEICs where all investment returns accrue to unit holders or shareholders respectively, was approximately 0.2 billion 2008: profit of 0.3 billion.
Investments in joint ventures Joint ventures represent activities over which the Group exercises joint control through contractual agreement with one or more parties.
The Groups significant joint ventures, which are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, comprise various joint ventures relating to property investments where the Group has a 50 per cent interest as well as the following interests: Investment % held Principal activity Country ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 26 Life assurance India BOCI Prudential Asset Management Limited 36 Pensions China PruHealth 50 Private medical insurance UK CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 50 Life assurance China CITIC Prudential Fund Management Company Limited 49 Asset management China Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited 49 Asset management India Prudential BSN Takaful Berhad 49 General and life insurance Malaysia 262 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H The investments noted in the table above have the same accounting year end as the Group, except for ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited.
Although these investments have reporting periods ending 31 March, 12 months of financial information up to 31 December is recorded.
Accordingly, the information covers the same period as that of the Group.
The summarised financial data for the Groups share of investments in joint ventures is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Financial position Current assets 386 250 Non-current assets 2,462 1,212 Total assets 2,848 1,462 Current liabilities 150 159 Non-current liabilities 2,392 1,063 Total liabilities 2,542 1,222 Net equity 306 240 Results of operations Revenues 974 656 Expenses 945 649 Net profit loss 29 7 There are several minor service agreements in place between the joint ventures and the Group.
During 2009, the aggregate amount of the transactions was 14.1 million 2008: 15.9 million and the balance outstanding as at 31 December 2009 was 54.6 million 2008: 22.5 million.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed nor does the Group have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
H9: Properties held for sale Investment properties are classified as held for sale when contracts have been exchanged but the sale has not been completed at the period end.
At 31 December 2009 the value of assets held for sale was 3 million 2008: nil.
Gains on disposal of held for sale assets are recorded in investment income within the income statement.
H10: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following statement of financial position amounts: 2009 m 2008 m Cash 5,071 5,362 Cash equivalents 236 593 Total cash and cash equivalents 5,307 5,955 Cash and cash equivalents held centrally are considered to be available for general use by the Group.
These funds amount to 895 million and 165 million at 31 December 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The remaining funds are considered not to be available for general use by the Group, and include funds held for the benefit of policyholders.
263 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H11: Shareholders equity: Share capital, share premium and reserves 2009 m 2008 m Share capital and share premium Share capital 127 125 Share premium 1,843 1,840 Reserves Retained earnings 3,964 3,604 Translation reserve 203 398 Available-for-sale reserve 134 909 Total shareholders equity 6,271 5,058 As a result of changes following the implementation of amendments to IAS 1, losses of 240 million relating to US operations previously included within the unrealised valuation movement of Jacksons available-for-sale debt securities have been reclassified as exchange movements within the statement of comprehensive income.
A summary of the ordinary shares in issue is set out below: Share capital and share premium 2008 Number of Share Share ordinary capital premium shares m m Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At the beginning of the year 2,470,017,240 123 1,828 Shares issued under share option schemes 2,307,469 12 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 24,622,979 2 156 Transfer to retained earnings in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 156 At end of the year 2,496,947,688 125 1,840 2009 Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At the beginning of the year 2,496,947,688 125 1,840 Shares issued under share option schemes 605,721 3 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 34,674,062 2 136 Transfer to retained earnings in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 136 At end of the year 2,532,227,471 127 1,843 Amounts recorded in share capital represent the nominal value of the shares issued.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares, net of issue costs, and the nominal value of shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
264 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H At 31 December 2009, there were options outstanding under Save As You Earn schemes to subscribe for 12,230,833 2008: 6,825,343 shares at prices ranging from 266 pence to 572 pence 2008: 266 pence to 617 pence and exercisable by the year 2016 2008: 2015.
In addition, there are 17,292 2008: 967,652 conditional options outstanding under the RSP and 6,644,203 2008: 4,906,234 under the GPSP exercisable at nil cost within a 10-year period.
The cost of own shares of 75 million as at 31 December 2009 2008: 75 million is deducted from retained earnings.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
At 31 December 2009, 5.3 million 2008: 6.4 million Prudential plc shares with a market value of 34 million 2008: 27 million were held in such trusts.
Of this total, 4.8 million 2008: 6.0 million shares were held in trusts under employee incentive plans.
In 2009, the Company purchased 3.4 million 2008: 5.4 million shares in respect of employee incentive plans at a cost of 17 million 2008: 27 million.
The maximum number of shares held in the year was 6.4 million which was at the beginning of the year.
Of the total shares held in trust, 0.5 million 2008: 0.4 million shares were held by a qualifying employee share ownership trust.
These shares are expected to be fully distributed in the future on maturity of savings-related share option schemes.
The Group has consolidated a number of authorised investment funds where it is deemed to control these funds under IFRS.
Some of these funds hold shares in Prudential plc.
The total number of shares held by these funds at 31 December 2009 was 10.6 million 2008: 9.2 million and the cost of acquiring these shares of 51 million 2008: 47 million is included in the cost of own shares.
The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2009 was 67 million 2008: 37 million.
Reserves The translation reserve represents cumulative foreign exchange translation differences taken directly to equity in accordance with IFRS, net of related tax.
In accordance with IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The available-for-sale reserve represents gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities of Jackson, net of the related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs and of the related tax.
H12: Insurance contract liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds Movement in year Insurance Unallocated contract surplus of withliabilities profits funds m m At 1 January 2008 132,776 13,959 Income and expense included in the income statement 12,760 5,815 Foreign exchange translation differences 16,014 270 At 31 December 2008 136,030 8,414 At 1 January 2009 136,030 8,414 Income and expense included in the income statement 19,765 1,559 Foreign exchange translation differences 6,574 46 Disposal of Taiwan agency business 3,508 At 31 December 2009 145,713 10,019 Notes B6, D2b, D3b and D4b provide further analysis of the movement in the year of the Groups policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds.
265 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H13: Borrowings Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2009 m 2008 m Innovative Lower Tier 1 Tier 2 Senior Total Total Parent company Subordinated debt: note i 500m 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2021 443 443 482 note ii 20m Medium-Term Subordinated Notes 2023 18 18 19 435m 6.125% Subordinated Notes 2031 428 428 427 note v 400m 11.375% Subordinated Notes 2039 380 380 note iii US$1,000m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 619 619 696 note iv US$250m 6.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 155 155 173 notes iv US$300m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 192 192 190 note ix US$750m 11.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 456 456 1,422 1,269 2,691 1,987 Senior debt: note v 249m 5.5% Bonds 2009 249 300m 6.875% Bonds 2023 300 300 300 250m 5.875% Bonds 2029 249 249 249 549 549 798 Total parent company 1,422 1,269 549 3,240 2,785 Jackson note vi US$250m 8.15% Surplus Notes 2027 154 154 173 notes vii, viii Total 1,422 1,423 549 3,394 2,958 These debt classifications are consistent with the treatment of capital for regulatory purposes, as defined in the FSA Handbook.
The senior debt ranks above subordinated debt in the event of liquidation.
Notes i The 500 million 5.75 per cent borrowings have been swapped into borrowings of 333 million with interest payable at six month Libor plus 0.962 per cent.
ii The 20 million borrowings were issued at 20-year Euro Constant Maturity Swap capped at 6.5 per cent.
These have been swapped into borrowings of 14 million with interest payable at three month Libor plus 1.2 per cent.
iii Interest on the US$1,000 million 6.5 per cent borrowings was swapped into floating rate payments at three month US$Libor plus 0.80 per cent.
In January 2009, this swap was cancelled.
iv The US$250 million 6.75 per cent borrowings and the US$300 million 6.5 per cent borrowings can be converted, in whole or in part, at the Companys option and subject to certain conditions, on any interest payment date falling on or after 23 March 2010 and 23 March 2011 respectively, into one or more series of Prudential preference shares.
v The 249 million 5.5 per cent borrowings were repaid on maturity in May 2009.
In the same month, the Company issued 400 million subordinated debt in part to replace the maturing debt.
vi The Jackson borrowings are unsecured and subordinated to all present and future indebtedness, policy claims and other creditor claims of Jackson.
vii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups core structural borrowings: 2009 2008 m m Less than 1 year 249 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years Over 5 years 3,394 2,709 Total 3,394 2,958 266 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H viii Management analyses the net core structural borrowings position as follows: 2009 2008 m m Total core structural borrowings as above 3,394 2,958 Less: Holding company cash and short-term investments recorded within the consolidated statement of financial position 1,486 1,165 Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 1,908 1,793 ix In July 2009, the Company issued US$750 million perpetual subordinated capital securities.
Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2009 m 2008 m Borrowings in respect of short-term fixed income securities programmes Commercial paper 2,031 1,269 Medium-Term Notes 2010 7 9 2,038 1,278 note i Non-recourse borrowings of US operations note ii Jackson 104 Investment subsidiaries 20 23 note iii Piedmont and CDO funds 183 384 203 511 Other borrowings note iv Bank loans and overdrafts 148 185 Obligations under finance leases 3 3 note v Other borrowings 359 510 188 note vii Total 2,751 1,977 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
ii This represents senior debt issued through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and was secured on collateral posted with FHLB by Jackson.
iii Piedmont is an investment trust investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
These borrowings pertain to debt instruments issued to external parties.
iv Bank loans and overdrafts include a short-term loan of 130 million in respect of Asian operations 2008: 130 million.
v Other borrowings represents amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent on future surpluses emerging from certain contracts specified under the arrangement.
If insufficient surplus emerges on the contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
vi In addition to the operational borrowings shown in the table above, Prudential plc has issued 200 million Floating Rate Notes 2010, which were wholly subscribed to by a Group subsidiary.
These borrowings have been eliminated on consolidation.
vii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations: 2009 2008 m m Less than 1 year 2,183 1,584 1 to 2 years 121 9 2 to 3 years 239 38 3 to 4 years 172 52 4 to 5 years 6 240 Over 5 years 30 54 Total 2,751 1,977 267 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H13: Borrowings continued Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 2009 m 2008 m note i Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated investment funds 1,016 1,161 note ii 100m 8.5% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc 100 100 Other borrowings predominantly obligations under finance leases 168 47 note iii Total 1,284 1,308 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those funds.
ii The interests of the holders of the bonds issued by Scottish Amicable Finance plc, a subsidiary of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund, are subordinate to the entitlements of the policyholders of that fund.
iii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings attributable to with-profits operations: 2009 2008 m m Less than 1 year 33 272 1 to 2 years 77 12 2 to 3 years 706 150 3 to 4 years 1 418 4 to 5 years 1 Over 5 years 466 456 Total 1,284 1,308 H14: Provisions and contingencies Provisions 2009 m 2008 m I2 Provision in respect of defined benefit pension schemes: Deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 122 67 Attributable to shareholder-financed operations i. e. to shareholders equity 128 82 250 149 Add back: Investments in Prudential insurance policies 187 157 Provision after elimination of investments in Prudential insurance policies and matching policyholder liability from Group statement of financial position 437 306 Other provisions see below 206 155 Total provisions 643 461 Analysis of other provisions: 2009 m 2008 m At 1 January 155 220 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 148 48 Unused amounts released 13 24 Used during the year 75 101 Exchange differences 9 12 At 31 December 206 155 Comprising: Legal provisions 15 23 Restructuring provisions 17 21 Other provisions 174 111 Total 206 155 Of the other provisions balance of 206 million 2008: 155 million, 148 million 2008: 90 million is expected to be settled within one year.
Employer contributions expected to be paid into defined benefit pension schemes within one year are shown in note I2.
268 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H Legal provisions Of the legal provisions of 15 million 2008: 23 million 11 million 2008:23 million relates to Jackson.
Jackson has been named in civil proceedings, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
Restructuring provisions Restructuring provisions of 17 million 2008: 21 million relate to restructuring activities of UK insurance operations.
In 2004 and 2005, UK insurance operations implemented restructurings relating to document management review, streamlining operations, and the relocation of activities to an offshore base in India.
In December 2005, the Group announced an initiative for UK insurance operations to work more closely with M&G and in the process facilitate the realisation of substantial annualised pre-tax cost savings and opportunities for revenue synergies.
At 1 January 2008, a provision of 35 million was brought forward, and during 2008 an additional 4 million was provided, 7 million of unused provision was released, and 11 million was paid.
During 2009, 1 million of unused provision was released, and 3 million was paid.
Other provisions Other provisions of 174 million 2008: 111 million include provisions of 143 million 2008: 95 million relating to staff benefit schemes.
During 2009, another 112 million was provided including exchange movements of 6 million, 10 million of unused provision was released and 54 million was paid.
In 2008, a provision of 155 million was brought forward, an additional 37 million was provided, 15 million of unused provision was released and 82 million was paid.
Other provisions also include 27 million 2008: 16 million relating to various onerous contracts where, in 2009, an additional 15 million was provided and 4 million was used.
In 2008, 11 million was brought forward, 10 million was provided and 5 million was paid.
Other provisions also include 4 million of regulatory provisions, where 9 million was provided, 2 million of unused provision was released and 3 million was paid.
Contingencies and related obligations Litigation In addition to the legal proceedings relating to Jackson mentioned under the legal provisions section above, the Group is involved in other litigation and regulatory issues.
Whilst the outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that the ultimate outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Pension mis-selling review In 1988, the UK government introduced new pensions legislation intended to encourage more individuals to make their own arrangements for their pensions.
During the period from April 1988 to June 1994, many individuals were advised by insurance companies, Independent Financial Advisers and other intermediaries to not join, to transfer from or to opt out of their occupational pension schemes in favour of private pension products introduced under the UK Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The UK insurance regulator previously the Personal Investment Authority, now the FSA, subsequently determined that many individuals were incorrectly advised and would have been better off not purchasing the private pension products sold to them.
Industry participants are responsible for compensating the persons to whom private pensions were mis-sold.
As a result, the FSA required that all UK life insurance companies review their potential cases of pension mis-selling and pay compensation to policyholders where necessary and, as a consequence, record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the FSA to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
The table below summarises the change in the pension mis-selling provision for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
The change in the provision is included in benefits and claims in the income statement and the movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds has been determined accordingly.
2009 m 2008 m Balance at beginning of year 345 448 Changes to actuarial assumptions and method of calculation 20 75 Discount unwind 3 20 Redress to policyholders 44 46 Payment of administrative costs 2 2 Balance at end of year 322 345 The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4.
The pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2009 set out above of 322 million is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate implied in the movement in the year is 4.6 per cent.
The undiscounted amounts at 31 December 2009 expected to be paid in each of the years ending 31 December are as follows: 269 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies continued 2009 m Year ended 31 December 2010 29 2011 8 2012 11 2013 12 2014 15 Thereafter 513 Total undiscounted amount 588 Aggregate discount 266 Discounted pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2009 322 The liability accounting for the contracts which are the subject of the mis-selling provision is reflected in two elements, namely the core policyholder liability determined on the basis applied for other contract liabilities and the mis-selling provision.
The overall liability for these contracts remains appropriate in the context of the accounting for policyholder liabilities that determines the calculation of both elements.
However, the constituent elements are reallocated and remeasured for the changes arising from the application of the realistic Peak 2 basis of liabilities for the core policyholder liability, as reflected in the IFRS policy improvement to apply the UK GAAP standard FRS 27 as described in section A4.
The Financial Ombudsman Service periodically updates the actuarial assumptions to be used in calculating the compensation payments, including interest rates and mortality assumptions.
The pension mis-selling provision represents the discounted value of future expected payments, including benefit payments and all internal and external legal and administrative costs of adjudicating, processing and settling those claims.
To the extent that amounts have not been paid, the provision increases each year reflecting the shorter period of discount.
The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling as well as the costs and expenses of the Groups pension review unit established to identify and settle such cases.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate see below.
Accordingly, these costs have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders pay-out values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
The assurance was designed to protect both existing policyholders at the date it was announced, and policyholders who subsequently purchased policies while the pension misselling review was continuing.
This review was completed on 30 June 2002.
The assurance will continue to apply to any policy in force at 31 December 2003, both for premiums paid before 1 January 2004, and for subsequent regular premiums including future fixed, RPI or salary related increases and Department of Work and Pensions rebate business.
The assurance has not applied to new business since 1 January 2004.
New business in this context consists of new policies, new members to existing pension schemes plus regular and single premium top-ups, transfers and switches to existing arrangements.
The maximum amount of capital support available under the terms of the assurance will reduce over time.
The bonus and investment policy for each type of with-profits policy is the same irrespective of whether or not the assurance applies and this is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Hence removal of the assurance for new business has had no impact on policyholder returns.
270 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H Mortgage endowment products review In common with several other UK insurance companies, the Group used to sell low-cost endowment products related to repayment of residential mortgages.
At sale, the initial sum assured is set at a level such that the projected benefits, including an estimate of the annual bonus receivable over the life of the policy, will equal or exceed the mortgage debt.
Because of a decrease in expected future investment returns since these products were sold, the FSA is concerned that the maturity value of some of these products will be less than the mortgage debt.
The FSA has worked with insurance companies to devise a programme whereby the companies write to customers indicating whether they may have a possible shortfall and outline the actions that the customers can take to prevent this possibility.
The Group is exposed to mortgage endowment products in respect of policies issued by Scottish Amicable Life plc SAL and policies issued by Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society SALAS which were transferred into SAIF.
At 31 December 2009, provisions of 4 million 2008: 5 million in SAL and 35 million 2008: 40 million in SAIF were held within policyholder liabilities to cover potential compensation in respect of mortgage endowment product mis-selling claims.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, this provision has no impact on shareholders.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2009 Prudential Assurances main with-profits fund paid compensation of 2 million 2008: 1 million in respect of mortgage endowment products mis-selling claims and at 31 December 2009 held a provision of 47 million 2008: 54 million in respect of further compensation.
The movement in this provision has no impact on the Groups profit before tax.
In May 2006, the Group introduced a deadline for both Prudential and Scottish Amicable mortgage endowment complaints.
Impacted customers have three years to lodge a mis-selling complaint in line with the time limit prescribed by the FSA and the ABI.
Guaranteed annuities Prudential Assurance used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2009 held a provision of 31 million 2008: 42 million within the main with-profits fund within policyholder liabilities to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2009 a provision of 284 million 2008: 391 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Other matters Inherited estate of the PAC long-term fund The assets of the with-profits sub-fund WPSF within the long-term fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
The inherited estate, as working capital, enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment flexibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of certain significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent to which it has been required to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
Support for long-term business funds by shareholders funds As a proprietary insurance company, PAC is liable to meet its obligations to policyholders even if the assets of the long-term funds are insufficient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the long-term funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a significant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of significant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support.
In 1997, the business of SALAS, a mutual society, was transferred to PAC.
In effecting the transfer, a separate sub-fund, SAIF, was established within PACs long-term business fund.
This sub-fund contains all the with-profits business and all other pension business that was transferred.
No new business has been or will be written in the sub-fund and the sub-fund is managed to ensure that all the invested assets are distributed to SAIF policyholders over the lifetime of SAIF policies.
With the exception of certain amounts in respect of the unitised with-profits life business, all future earnings arising in SAIF are retained for SAIF policyholders.
Any excess deficiency of revenue over expense within SAIF during a period is offset by a transfer to from the SAIF unallocated surplus.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on this business.
With the exception of certain guaranteed annuity products mentioned earlier in this note, and certain products which include a minimum guaranteed rate of accumulation, the majority of SAIF with-profits policies do not guarantee minimum rates of return to policyholders.
271 Notes on the Group financial statements H: Other information on statement of financial position items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies continued Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benefits in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
Guarantees and commitments Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies.
These guarantee funds are financed by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The Group estimated its reserve for future guarantee fund assessments for Jackson, included within other liabilities to be 15 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 18 million.
Similar assessments for the UK businesses were not significant.
The directors believe that the reserve is adequate for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
At 31 December 2009, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 339 million 2008: 400 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and of 89 million 2008: 24 million related to commercial mortgage loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the directors do not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them.
Jackson owns debt instruments issued by securitisation trusts managed by PPM America.
At 31 December, 2009, the support provided by certain forbearance agreements Jackson entered into with the counterparty to certain of these trusts could potentially expose Jackson to maximum losses of $750 million, if circumstances allowed the forbearance period to cease.
Jackson believes that, so long as the forbearance period continues, the risk of loss under the agreements is remote.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third-parties entered into in the normal course of business but the Company does not consider that the amounts involved are significant.
H15: Other liabilities 2009 m 2008 m Creditors arising from direct insurance and reinsurance operations 615 552 Interest payable 83 139 Other items 179 199 Total 877 890 272 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes I1: Sale of legacy agency book and agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan On 20 February 2009, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell the assets and liabilities of its agency distribution business and its agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company Ltd of Taiwan for the nominal sum of NT$1 subject to regulatory approval.
In addition, the Company would invest 45 million to purchase a 9.99 per cent stake in China Life through a share placement.
The business transferred represented 94 per cent of Prudentials in-force liabilities in Taiwan and included Prudentials legacy interest rate guaranteed products with IFRS basis gross assets at 31 December 2008 of 4.5 billion.
After taking account of IFRS shareholders equity of the business at 31 December 2008, provisions for restructuring costs, and other costs the Groups IFRS shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 was expected to decrease by approximately 595 million.
The Company retains its interest in life insurance business in Taiwan through its retained bank distribution partnerships and its direct investment of 9.99 per cent in China Life.
The sale was completed, following regulatory approval, on 19 June 2009.
The trading results shown below are for the period 1 January to 19 June 2009.
The carrying value of the IFRS equity of the business, as applied in the calculation of the loss on sale, reflects the application of grandfathered US GAAP under IFRS 4 of insurance assets and liabilities.
US GAAP does not, and is not designed to, include the cost of holding economic capital to support the legacy interest rate guaranteed products as recognised under the Companys supplementary reporting basis under European Embedded Value principles.
The IFRS loss on sale reflects this missing element of the economic value.
The effects on the IFRS income statement and equity attributable to shareholders is shown below.
The loss on sale and trading results of the Taiwan agency business for the period of ownership comprise: 2009 m 2008 m Loss on sale: As estimated and announced on 20 February 2009: Proceeds Net asset value attributable to equity holders of the Company and provision for restructuring costs 551 Goodwill written off 44 595 Trading losses to completion, net of tax, as shown below 44 Minority interests and other adjustments 8 Loss on sale of the Taiwan agency business, gross and net of tax as shown in income statement 559 Trading results before tax including short-term fluctuations in investment returns 62 1 Related tax 18 4 Total 44 3 Loss on sale and trading results of the Taiwan agency business: Gross of tax 621 1 Tax 18 4 Net of tax 603 3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 598 3 Minority interests 5 Loss on sale and results of the Taiwan agency business, net of tax 603 3 The loss on disposal of 559 million includes cumulative foreign exchange gains of 9 million recycled through the profit and loss account as required by IAS 21.
The impact on shareholders funds of the disposal including trading losses up to the date of disposal is 607 million.
The difference of 12 million from the estimate of 595 million reflects a number of minor adjustments.
273 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I1: Sale of legacy agency book and agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan continued Cash and cash equivalents disposed of were 388 million and restructuring and other costs incurred in cash in the year were 64 million.
In addition, the Company invested 45 million in China Life as described above.
Accordingly, the cash outflow for the Group arising from the sale of the Taiwan agency business, as shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows, was 497 million.
In order to facilitate comparisons of the Groups retained businesses, the presentation of the segmental analysis of IFRS loss before shareholder tax as shown in note B1 has been adjusted to show separately the result for the sold Taiwan agency business, as explained below.
2008 m As previously published Adjustment Adjusted Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,347 64 1,283 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 1,783 62 1,721 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 14 1 13 Included Results of sold Taiwan agency business above 1 1 Loss before tax 450 450 I2: Staff and pension plans a Staff and employment costs The average number of staff employed by the Group during the year was: 2009 2008 Business operations: UK operations 4,516 6,231 US operations 3,371 3,298 Asian operations 19,502 20,154 Total 27,389 29,683 The costs of employment were: 2009 m 2008 m Business operations: Wages and salaries 878 791 Social security costs 61 54 Other pension costs see below 95 78 Pension actuarial and other losses gains charged to income statement 138 10 233 68 Total 1,172 913 Other pension costs comprises 57 million 2008: 47 million relating to defined benefit schemes and 38 million 2008: 31 million relating to defined contribution schemes of continuing operations.
Of the defined contribution scheme costs, 27 million 2008: 21 million related to overseas defined contribution schemes.
The 57 million 2008: 47 million relating to defined benefit schemes comprises a charge of 29 million 2008: 29 million relating to PSPS and a charge of 28 million 2008: 18 million for other schemes.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS as described in note b i 1 below, the 29 million 2008: 29 million for PSPS represents the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members and the unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS.
The charge of 28 million 2008: 18 million for other schemes comprises a 19 million 2008: 7 million charge on an economic basis, reflecting the total assets of the schemes, and a further 9 million 2008: 11 million charge to adjust for amounts invested in Prudential insurance policies to arrive at the IAS 19 basis charge.
The loss of 138 million 2008: gains of 10 million for actuarial and other gains comprises a loss of 155 million 2008: 21 million for actuarial and other losses on an economic basis and 17 million actuarial gains 2008: 31 million to adjust for amounts invested in Prudential insurance policies.
The derivation of these amounts is shown in note b i 7 on pages 282 and 283.
274 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I b Pension plans i Defined benefit plans 1 Summary The Group business operations operate a number of pension schemes.
The specific features of these plans vary in accordance with the regulations of the country in which the employees are located, although they are, in general, funded wholly by the Group and based either on a cash balance formula or on years of service and salary earned in the last year or years of employment.
The largest defined benefit scheme is the principal UK scheme, namely the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS : 86 per cent 2008: 87 per cent of the underlying scheme liabilities of the Group defined benefit schemes are accounted for within PSPS.
The Group also operates two smaller defined benefit schemes for UK employees in respect of Scottish Amicable and M&G.
For all three schemes the projected unit method was used for the most recent full actuarial valuations.
There is also a small defined benefit scheme in Taiwan but as part of the sale of the Taiwan agency business completed in June 2009, the Group settled the majority of the obligations under the scheme as a significant number of employees transferred out.
Defined benefit schemes in the UK are generally required to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years in order to assess the appropriate level of funding for schemes in relation to their commitments.
These valuations include assessments of the likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate trustee administered funds.
PSPS was last actuarially valued as at 5 April 2008.
This valuation demonstrated the scheme to be 106 per cent funded by reference to the Scheme Solvency Target that forms the basis of the schemes statutory funding objective.
Accordingly, the total contributions to be made by the Group into the scheme were reduced from the previous arrangement of 70-75 million per annum to 50 million per annum effective from 1 July 2009.
As the scheme was in a surplus position at the valuation date, no formal deficit funding plan was required.
However, recognising that there had been significant deterioration in the value of the scheme assets from 5 April 2008 to the date of the finalisation of the valuation, contributions to the scheme for additional funding of 25 million per annum, as well as the 25 million per annum employers contributions for ongoing service of current employees, was agreed with the Trustees subject to a reassessment when the next valuation is completed.
The additional funding is akin to deficit funding.
Deficit funding for PSPS is apportioned in the ratio of 70 30 between the PAC life fund and shareholder-backed operations following detailed consideration in 2005 of the sourcing of previous contributions.
Employer contributions for ongoing service of current employees are apportioned in the ratio relevant to current activity.
In 2009 total contributions for the year including expenses and augmentations were 67 million at 31 December 2008: 79 million.
The valuation of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme as at 31 March 2008 demonstrated the scheme to be 91 per cent funded, with a shortfall of actuarially determined liabilities of nine per cent, representing a deficit of 38 million.
Based on this valuation, deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a seven year period were made from July 2009 of 7.3 million per annum.
The IAS 19 deficit of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme at 31 December 2009 of 139 million 2008: 44 million has been allocated 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the PAC shareholders fund.
Subsequent to the year end, the valuation of the M&G Pension Scheme as at 31 December 2008 was finalised in January 2010.
The valuation demonstrated the scheme to be 76 per cent funded, with a shortfall of actuarially determined assets to liabilities of 51 million.
Based on this valuation, deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a five year period were made from January 2010 of 14.1 million per annum for the first two years and 9.3 million per annum for the subsequent three years.
The IAS 19 deficit of the M&G Pension Scheme on an economic basis at 31 December 2009 was 36 million 2008: 23 million and is wholly attributable to shareholders.
Under the IAS 19 valuation basis, the Group adopted IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction in 2008.
Under IFRIC 14, on an economic basis the Group has not recognised the underlying PSPS surplus of 513 million gross of deferred tax 2008: 728 million due to the Group not having an unconditional right of refund to any surplus in the scheme.
Additionally, under IFRIC 14, the Group has also recognised a liability for committed deficit funding obligation to PSPS.
Although the contributions would increase the surplus in the scheme, the corresponding asset will not be recognised in the Group accounts.
At 31 December 2009, based on the new funding arrangement as described above, the Group has recognised a liability for deficit funding to 30 June 2012 for PSPS of 75 million, gross of deferred tax 2008: 65 million gross of deferred tax based on the previous deficit funding commitment to 5 April 2010.
The asset and liabilities of PSPS are unaffected by the impact of the application of IFRIC 14.
PSPS is managed on an economic basis for the longer-term benefit of its current and deferred pensioners and active members.
The surplus in PSPS is available to absorb future adverse asset value movements and, if required, strengthening in mortality assumptions.
As at 31 December 2009, after the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, the shareholders share of the pension liability for PSPS deficit funding obligation and the deficits of the defined benefit pension schemes amounted to a 92 million liability net of related tax relief 2008: 61 million.
These amounts are determined after including amounts invested by the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as explained later in this note.
On the economic basis including investments of the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as assets, for 2009, a 32 million 2008: 26 million pre-tax shareholder charge to operating results based on longer-term returns arises.
In addition, outside the operating result but included in total profits is a pre-tax shareholder loss of 74 million 2008: 14 million for shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses.
275 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Staff and pension plans continued In addition, also on the economic basis, the PAC with-profits sub-fund was charged 16 million 2008: charge of 10 million for its share of the pension charge of PSPS and Scottish Amicable and charged with 81 million 2008: 7 million for its share of net actuarial and other losses on the scheme assets and liabilities.
As shareholder profits for the PAC with-profits sub-fund reflects the surplus for distribution, these amounts are effectively absorbed by an increased credit in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus.
At 31 December 2009, after the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, the total share of the liability for deficit funding on PSPS and the deficit on the smaller Scottish Amicable Scheme attributable to the PAC with-profits fund amounted to a liability of 110 million 2008: 60 million net of related tax relief.
2 Corporate governance The rules of the Groups largest pension arrangement, the defined benefit section of PSPS, a final salary scheme, specify that, in exercising its investment powers, the Trustees objective is to achieve the best overall investment return consistent with the security of the assets of the scheme.
In doing this, consideration is given to the nature and duration of the schemes liabilities.
The Trustee sets the benchmark for the asset mix, following analysis of the liabilities by the Schemes Actuary and, having taken advice from the Investment Managers, then selects benchmark indices for each asset type in order to measure investment performance against a benchmark return.
The Trustee reviews strategy, the asset mix benchmark and the Investment Managers objectives every three years, to coincide with the Actuarial Valuation, or earlier if the Scheme Actuary recommends.
Interim reviews are conducted annually based on changing economic circumstances and financial market levels.
The Trustee sets the general investment policy and specifies any restrictions on types of investment and the degrees of divergence permitted from the benchmark, but delegates the responsibility for selection and realisation of specific investments to the Investment Managers.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Investment Managers are required by the Pensions Act 1995 to have regard to the need for diversification and suitability of investments.
Subject to a number of restrictions contained within the relevant asset management agreements, the Investment Managers are authorised to invest in any class of investment asset.
However, the Investment Managers will not invest in any new class of investment asset without prior consultation with the Trustee.
The Trustee consults the Principal Employer, the Prudential Assurance Company, on these investment principles, but the ultimate responsibility for the investment of the assets of the scheme lies with the Trustee.
The investment policies and strategies for the other two UK defined benefit schemes, the M&G Group Pension Scheme and the Scottish Amicable Staff Pension Scheme, which are both final salary schemes, follow similar principles, but have different target allocations reflecting the particular requirements of the schemes.
3 Assumptions The actuarial assumptions used in determining benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for the years ended 31 December were as follows: 2009 % 2008 % Discount rate 5.8 6.1 Rate of increase in salaries 5.7 5.0 Rate of inflation 3.7 3.0 Rate of increase of pensions in payment for inflation: Guaranteed maximum 5% 3.7 3.0 Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5 2.5 Discretionary 2.5 2.5 Expected returns on plan assets 4.5 6.2 The discount rate of 5.8 per cent has been determined by reference to an AA corporate bond index adjusted, where applicable, to allow for the difference in duration between the index and the pension liabilities.
The rates of 2.5 per cent shown are those for PSPS.
Assumed rates of increase of pensions in payment for inflation for all other schemes are 3.7 per cent in 2009 2008: 3.0 per cent.
The calculations are based on current actuarially calculated mortality estimates with a specific allowance made for future improvements in mortality, which is broadly based on adjusted versions of the medium cohort projections prepared by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
276 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I The tables used for PSPS immediate annuities in payment at 31 December 2009 were: Male: 108.6 per cent PNMA 00 with medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.75 per cent up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120: and Female: 103.4 per cent PNFA 00 with 75 per cent medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.00 per cent up to the age of 90 and decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120.
The tables used for PSPS immediate annuities in payment at 31 December 2008 were: Male: 100 per cent PMA 92 with CMIR17 improvements to the valuation date and medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.75 per cent up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120: and Female: 100 per cent PFA92 with CMIR17 improvements to the valuation date and 75 per cent medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of one per cent up to the age of 90 and decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120.
The assumed life expectancies on retirement at age 60, based on the mortality table used was: 2009 years 2008 years Male Female Male Female Retiring today 27.4 28.6 26.4 28.4 Retiring in 15 years time 30.1 30.8 28.9 29.8 The mean term of the current PSPS liabilities is around 18 years.
Using external actuarial advice provided by the scheme actuaries being Towers Watson previously known as Watson Wyatt for the valuation of PSPS and by Aon Limited for the M&G scheme, and Xafinity for the Scottish Amicable scheme, the most recent full valuations have been updated to 31 December 2009, applying the principles prescribed by IAS 19.
4 Summary financial position The Group liability in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Economic position: Deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to the PAC with-profits fund i. e. absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 122 67 Attributable to shareholder-backed operations i. e. to shareholders equity 128 82 Economic deficit as explained in note 5 below 250 149 Exclude: investments in Prudential insurance policies offset on consolidation in the Group financial statements against insurance liabilities 187 157 Deficit under IAS 19 included in provisions in the statement of financial position as explained in note 7 below 437 306 The following disclosures explain the economic position and IAS 19 basis of accounting after eliminating investment in Prudential insurance policies on consolidation.
5 Group economic financial position The following tables illustrate the movement on the financial position of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes on an economic basis.
The underlying position reflects the assets including investments in Prudential policies that are offset against liabilities to policyholders on the Group consolidation and the liabilities of the schemes.
At 31 December 2009, the investments in Prudential policies comprise 101 million 2008: 103 million for PSPS and 187 million 2008: 157 million for the M&G scheme.
Separately, the economic financial position also includes the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, whereby for PSPS, where there are constraints in the trust deed to prevent the company access, the surplus is not recognised and a liability to additional funding as described earlier is established.
277 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Staff and pension plans continued Estimated pension scheme deficit economic basis Movements on the pension scheme deficit determined on the economic basis are as follows, with the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 being shown separately: 2009 m Charge credit to income statement Operating Actuarial resultsand Surplus Surplus based on other deficit deficit in longer-term gains Disposal of in scheme scheme at investment and Taiwan at 31 Dec 1 January returns losses Contributions agency 2009 2009 note b note c paid business note a All schemes Underlying position without the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 644 71 337 85 17 338 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 483 33 207 42 285 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 161 38 130 43 17 53 Related tax 47 11 36 11 4 15 Net of shareholders tax 114 27 94 32 13 38 Effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 793 23 182 588 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 550 17 126 407 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 243 6 56 181 Related tax 68 2 15 51 Net of shareholders' tax 175 4 41 130 With the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 149 48 155 85 17 250 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 67 16 81 42 122 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 82 32 74 43 17 128 Related tax 21 9 21 11 4 36 Net of shareholders tax 61 23 53 32 13 92 Including the effect of exchange translation difference.
278 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I 2008 m Charge credit to income statement Operating Actuarial resultsand Surplus Surplus based on other Results deficit deficit in longer-term gains of sold in scheme scheme at investment and Taiwan at 31 Dec 1 January returns losses agency Contributions 2008 2008 note b note c business paid Exchange note a All schemes Underlying position without the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 447 46 61 1 95 4 644 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 338 48 49 48 483 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 109 2 12 1 47 4 161 Related tax 33 1 2 13 47 Net of shareholders tax 76 1 10 1 34 4 114 Effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 630 82 81 793 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 436 58 56 550 Shareholders share: Gross of tax deficit surplus 194 24 25 243 Related tax 55 6 7 68 Net of shareholders tax 139 18 18 175 With the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 183 36 20 1 95 4 149 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 98 10 7 48 67 Shareholders share: Gross of tax deficit surplus 85 26 13 1 47 4 82 Related tax 22 7 5 13 21 Net of shareholders tax 63 19 8 1 34 4 61 a On the economic basis, after including the underlying assets represented by the investments in Prudential insurance policies as scheme assets, the underlying statements of financial position of the schemes at 31 December were: 2009 m 2008 m Other Other schemes schemes PSPS note iii Total % PSPS note iii Total % Equities 830 266 1,096 20 823 213 1,036 19 Bonds 3,406 280 3,686 67 2,430 277 2,707 51 Properties 272 15 287 5 283 18 301 6 note i Cash-like investments 441 2 443 8 1,267 6 1,273 24 Total value of assets 4,949 563 5,512 100 4,803 514 5,317 100 Present value of benefit obligations 4,436 738 5,174 4,075 598 4,673 513 175 338 728 84 644 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes: Derecognition of PSPS surplus 513 513 728 728 Set up obligation for deficit funding for PSPS 75 75 65 65 note ii Pre-tax deficit 75 175 250 65 84 149 279 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Staff and pension plans continued Notes i The PSPS has entered into a derivatives based strategy to match the duration and inflation profile of its liabilities.
This involved a reallocation from other investments to cash-like investments with an interest and inflation swap overlay.
In broad terms, the scheme is committed to making a series of payments related to LIBOR on a nominal amount and in return the scheme receives a series of fixed and inflation-linked payments which match a proportion of its liabilities.
As at 31 December 2009, the nominal value of the interest and inflation-linked swaps amounted to 1.1 billion 2008: 1.2 billion and 1.9 billion 2008: 0.3 billion respectively.
ii The resulting scheme deficit arising from the excess of liabilities over assets at 31 December 2009 of 250 million 2008: 149 million comprised a deficit of 122 million 2008: deficit of 67 million attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and deficit of 128 million 2008: deficit of 82 million attributable to shareholder operations.
iii In addition to PSPS, there are two smaller schemes in the UK, the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme, and the M&G Pension Scheme, with a combined deficit at 31 December 2009 of 175 million 2008: 67 million, gross of tax.
There is also a small scheme in Taiwan, which at 31 December 2009 had a deficit of nil 2008: 17 million, gross of tax.
As part of the sale of the Taiwan agency business in June 2009 the Group has settled the majority of the obligations under the Taiwan scheme relating to the employees who were transferred out.
The movements in the deficit on the economic basis between scheme assets and liabilities were: 2009 m 2008 m Current service cost 11 19 Curtailment credit 14 Other finance income 8 2 Cash costs and unwind of discount on opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 29 29 Contributions 85 95 Actuarial and other gains and losses 155 20 Movement due to the sold Taiwan agency business and exchange translation difference 17 5 Net decrease in deficit 101 34 b The components of the charge credit to operating results gross of allocation of the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund are as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Service cost 34 45 Curtailment credit 44 Finance expense income: Interest on pension scheme liabilities 277 289 Expected return on assets 240 336 Total charge credit without the effect of IFRIC 14 71 46 Effect of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes 23 82 Total charge after the effect of IFRIC 14 48 36 The net charge to operating profit gross of the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund of 48 million 2008: 36 million is made up of a charge of 29 million 2008: 29 million relating to PSPS and a charge of 19 million 2008: 7 million for other schemes.
This net charge represents: 2009 m 2008 m Underlying IAS 19 charge for other pension schemes 19 7 Cash costs for PSPS 25 25 Unwind of discount on opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 4 4 48 36 Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the charge to operating profit on longer-term investment returns for PSPS reflects the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members.
In addition, the charge to the operating results also includes a charge for the unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS.
280 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I c The components of the credit charge for actuarial and other gains and losses gross of allocation of the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund but excluding the charge relating to the sold Taiwan agency business are as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Actual less expected return on assets 108 356 Losses gains on changes of assumptions for plan liabilities 521 272 Experience gains on liabilities 76 145 Total charge without the effect of IFRIC 14 337 61 Effect of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes 182 81 Actuarial and other gains and losses after the effect of IFRIC 14 155 20 The net charge for actuarial and other gains and losses is recorded within the income statement but, within the segmental analysis of profit, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses i. e. net of allocation of the share to the PAC with-profits funds is excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The 2009 actuarial losses of 337 million primarily reflects the effect of increases in inflation rates and decrease in risk discount rates partially offset by the excess of market returns over long-term assumptions and experience gains on liabilities.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the actuarial gains and losses do not include those of PSPS.
In addition, as a result of applying IFRIC 14, the Group has recognised a provision for deficit funding in respect of PSPS.
The change in 2009 in relation to this provision recognised above as other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes was 48 million 2008: 13 million.
6 Movement in IAS 19 basis financial position The change in the present value of the benefit obligation and the change in fair value of the assets for the total of the PSPS, Scottish Amicable, M&G and Taiwan schemes over the period were as follows: 2009 m PSPS Other schemes Total IAS 19 basis: IAS 19 basis: change in Investments Economic change in Economic Provision fair value in Prudential basis: present value basis: for deficit of plan insurance total of benefit net funding assets policies assets obligations obligations Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 357 157 514 514 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 598 598 Provision for deficit funding for PSPS 65 65 65 357 157 514 598 149 Service cost current charge only 11 11 Interest cost 35 35 Expected return on plan assets 18 9 27 27 Employee contributions 11 1 Employer contributions 6799 18 85 Actuarial gains losses 6 17 23 130 107 Benefit payments 11 6 17 17 Cash costs and unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 29 29 Movement in the provision for deficit funding for PSPS 48 48 Disposal of Taiwan agency business, including exchange translation difference 3 3 20 17 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 376 187 563 563 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 738 738 Provision for deficit funding of PSPS 75 75 Economic basis deficit 250 281 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Staff and pension plans continued 2008 m PSPS Other schemes Total IAS 19 basis: IAS 19 basis: change in Investments Economic change in Economic Provision fair value in Prudential basis: present value basis: for deficit of plan insurance total of benefit net funding assets policies assets obligations obligations Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 401 172 573 573 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 654 654 Provision for deficit funding for PSPS 102 102 102 401 172 573 654 183 Service cost current charge only 19 19 Curtailment credit 14 14 Interest cost 39 39 Expected return on plan assets 26 11 37 37 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Employer contributions 79 7 9 16 95 Actuarial gains losses 67 31 98 90 8 Benefit payments 10 5 15 15 Cash costs and unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 29 29 Movement in the provision for deficit funding for PSPS 13 13 Exchange translation difference 4 4 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 357 157 514 514 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 598 598 Provision for deficit funding of PSPS 65 65 Economic basis deficit 149 7 IAS 19 basis financial position as consolidated The IAS 19 basis pensions deficit can be summarised as follows: 2009 m 2008 m 2007 m 2006 m 2005 m Fair value of plan assets, end of year 5,224 5,057 5,150 4,988 4,622 Present value of funded benefit obligation 4,951 4,493 4,826 5,023 5,228 Funded status 273 564 324 35 606 Present value of unfunded obligations M&G scheme 223 180 189 187 190 50 384 135 222 796 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes Derecognition of PSPS surplus 513 728 528 141 Set up obligation for deficit funding for PSPS 75 65 102 143 Adjustment in respect of investment of PSPS in Prudential policies 101 103 140 126 Deficit recognised in the statement of financial position 437 306 355 380 796 The M&G pension scheme assets are invested in Prudential insurance policies.
For IFRS accounting purposes, the M&G scheme is in effect unfunded.
Please see above for more details.
282 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I 2009 m 2008 m Components of net periodic pension cost Current service cost 34 45 Curtailment credit 44 Interest cost 277 289 Expected return on assets economic basis 240 336 Less: expected return on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 16 22 Expected return on assets IAS 19 basis 224 314 87 24 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 30 71 I2a Pension cost as referred to in note 57 47 Actuarial gains and losses economic basis 337 60 Less: actuarial gains on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 8 79 329 139 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 191 129 I2a Actuarial gains and losses IAS 19 basis as referred to in note 138 10 Net periodic pension cost included within acquisition and other operating expenditure in the income statement 195 37 Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the effect on the net periodic pension cost for PSPS was to replace the usual IAS 19 pension charges and credits with the cash cost of contribution for ongoing services of active members and also not to report the actuarial gains and losses.
In determining the expected return on scheme assets for 2009, the 4.5 per cent rate shown below has been applied to the opening assets.
The long-term expected rate of return has been taken to be the weighted average by market value of the long-term expected rates of return on each major asset class shown below: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m % m % m % m % m % Scheme assets IAS 19 basis before effect of IFRIC 14 Equity 917 18 875 17 1,332 26 1,432 29 2,376 51 Bonds 3,587 69 2,619 52 1,299 25 2,185 44 1,593 35 Properties 278 5 290 6 583 11 621 12 575 12 Cash-like investments 442 8 1,273 25 1,936 38 750 15 78 2 Total 5,224 100 5,057 100 5,150 100 4,988 100 4,622 100 Prospectively for 2010 % 2009 % 2008 % Long-term expected rate of return Equity 8.5 6.8 7.5 Bonds 5.3 4.8 5.4 Properties 6.75 6.05 6.75 Cash 4.75 2.0 5.5 Weighted average long-term expected rate of return 5.9 4.5 6.1 The expected rates of return have been determined by reference to long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and equity and other market conditions at the statement of financial position date.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 348 million 2008: loss of 20 million on an IAS 19 basis.
283 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I2: Staff and pension plans continued None of the scheme assets included shares in Prudential plc or property occupied by the Prudential Group.
2009 m 2008 m 2007 m 2006 m 2005 m Fair value of scheme assets, end of year IAS 19 basis 5,224 5,057 5,150 4,988 4,622 Present value of the benefit obligation, end of year 5,174 4,673 5,015 5,210 5,418 Underlying scheme assets in surplus deficit of benefit obligation, before the effect of IFRIC 14 50 384 135 222 796 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 76 145 14 18 1 Percentage of scheme liabilities at 31 December 1.47% 3.10% 0.28% 0.35 % 0.02 % Experience adjustments on scheme assets IAS 19 basis 100 277 7 140 527 Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 1.91% 5.48 % 0.14 % 2.81% 11.42% The experience adjustments on scheme liabilities in 2008 of a gain of 145 million related mainly to the true up reflecting improvements in data consequent upon the 2008 triennial valuation of PSPS.
Total employer contributions expected to be paid into the Group defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2010 amounts to 88 million 2009: 98 million.
8 Sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities of the PSPS, Scottish Amicable and M&G pension schemes to key variables The table below shows the sensitivity of the underlying PSPS, Scottish Amicable and M&G pension scheme liabilities at 31 December 2009 of 4,436 million, 515 million and 223 million respectively 2008: 4,075 million, 398 million and 180 million to changes in discount rates and inflation rates.
2009 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities on IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 5.8% to 5.6% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.5% Scottish Amicable 5.2% M&G 4.9% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 5.8% to 6.0% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.2% Scottish Amicable 4.8% M&G 4.9% Rate of inflation Decrease by 0.2% from 3.7% to 3.5% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: with consequent reduction in PSPS 0.9% salary increases Scottish Amicable 4.9% M&G 4.5% 2008 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities on IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 6.1% to 5.9% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.3% Scottish Amicable 4.9% M&G 4.5% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 6.1% to 6.3% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.1% Scottish Amicable 4.6% M&G 4.2% Rate of inflation Decrease by 0.2% from 3.0% to 2.8% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: with consequent reduction in PSPS 0.8% salary increases Scottish Amicable 4.5% M&G 3.8% 284 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I The sensitivity of the underlying pension scheme liabilities to changes in discount rates and inflation rates as shown above does not directly equate to an impact on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity due to the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 on PSPS and the allocation of a share of the interest in financial position of the PSPS and Scottish Amicable schemes to the PAC with-profits fund as described in note b i 1 above.
For PSPS, the underlying surplus of the scheme of 513 million 2008: 728 million has not been recognised under IFRIC 14.
Any change in the underlying scheme liabilities to the extent that it is not sufficient to alter PSPS into a liability in excess of the deficit funding provision will not have an impact on the Groups results and financial position.
In the event that a change in the PSPS scheme liabilities results in a deficit position for the scheme which is recognisable, the deficit recognised affects the Groups results and financial position only to the extent of the amounts attributable to shareholder operations.
The amounts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund are absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus and have no direct effect on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity.
This applies similarly to the Scottish Amicable scheme, whose deficit has been allocated 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the PAC shareholders fund.
9 Transfer value of PSPS scheme At 31 December 2009, it is estimated that the assets of the scheme are broadly sufficient to cover the liabilities of PSPS on a buyout basis including an allowance for expenses.
The buyout basis refers to a basis that might apply in the circumstance of a transfer to another appropriate financial institution.
In making this assessment it has been assumed that a more conservative investment strategy applies together with a more prudent allowance for future mortality improvements and no allowance for discretionary pension increases.
ii Other pension plans The Group operates various defined contribution pension schemes including schemes in Jackson and Asia.
As noted earlier, the cost of the Groups contributions for continuing operations to these schemes in 2009 was 38 million 2008: 31 million.
I3: Share-based payments The Group maintains 10 main share award and share option plans relating to Prudential plc shares, which are described below.
The Group Performance Share Plan GPSP is the incentive plan in which all executive directors and other senior executives within the Group can participate.
This scheme was established as a replacement for the Restricted Share Plan RSP under which no further awards could be made after March 2006.
Awards are granted either in the form of a nil cost option, conditional right over shares, or such other form that shall confer to the participant an equivalent economic benefit, with a vesting period of three years.
The performance measure for the awards is that Prudentials Total Shareholder Return TSR outperforms an index comprising of peer companies.
Vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight line sliding scale basis.
Participants are entitled to the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued on the shares that vest.
Shares are currently purchased in the open market by a trust for the benefit of qualifying employees.
Beginning 2010, newly issued shares will be used in settling the awards that vest and are released.
The RSP was, until March 2006, the Groups long-term incentive plan for executive directors and other senior executives designed to provide rewards linked to shareholder return.
Each year participants were granted a conditional option to receive a number of shares.
There was a deferment period of three years at the end of which the award vested to an extent that depended on the performance of the Groups shares including notional reinvested dividends and on the Groups underlying financial performance.
After vesting, the option may be exercised at zero cost at any time, subject to closed period rules, in the balance of a 10-year period.
Shares are purchased in the open market by a trust for the benefit of qualifying employees.
The Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP is an incentive plan created to provide a common framework under which awards would be made to senior employees in the UK, Jackson and Asia including the Chief Executive Officers.
Awards under this plan are based on growth in Shareholder Capital Value on the European Embedded Value EEV basis with performance measured over three years.
Upon vesting of awards made up to 2008, half of the awards will be released as shares and the other half released in cash.
In the year ending 31 December, 2009 all awards made will be settled in shares after vesting.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of reinvested dividends over the performance period for those shares that vest.
The growth parameters for the awards are relevant to each region and vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight line sliding scale basis.
UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in the Prudential HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE scheme and the Asia-based executive directors can participate in the equivalent International SAYE scheme.
The schemes allow employees to save towards the exercise of options over Prudential plc shares, at an option price set at the beginning of the savings period at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the market price.
In 2009, the rules governing the SAYE scheme were amended so that savings contracts for seven years was discontinued and employees may save up to 250 per month for three or five years.
On maturity at the end of the set term, participants may exercise their options within six months of the end of the savings period and purchase Prudential plc shares.
If an option is not exercised within six months, participants are entitled to a refund of their cash contributions plus interest if applicable under the rules.
Shares are issued to satisfy options that are exercised.
No options may be granted under the schemes if the grant would cause the number of shares which have been issued, or which remain issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding 10 years under the scheme and other share option schemes operated by the Company, or which have been issued under any other share incentive scheme of the Company, to exceed 10 per cent of the Companys ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant.
285 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I3: Share-based payments continued UK-based executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan which allows all UK-based employees to purchase shares of Prudential plc partnership shares on a monthly basis out of gross salary.
For every four partnership shares bought, an additional matching share is awarded, purchased on the open market.
Dividend shares accumulate while the employee participates in the plan.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn from the scheme at any time.
If the employee withdraws from the plan within five years, the matching shares are forfeit and if within three years, dividend shares are forfeit.
Jackson operates a performance-related share award which, subject to the prior approval of the Jackson Remuneration Committee, may grant share awards to eligible Jackson employees in the form of a contingent right to receive shares or a conditional allocation of shares.
These share awards have vesting periods of four years and are at nil cost to the employee.
Award holders do not have any right to dividends or voting rights attaching to the shares.
The shares are held in the employee share trust in the form of American Depository Receipts which are tradable on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Prudential Corporation Asia Long-Term Incentive Plan PCA LTIP is an incentive plan created in 2008 for senior employees and Chief Executive Officers to replace the Asia Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP.
Awards under the new PCA LTIP will vest after three years subject to the employee being in employment at the time of vesting without any performance conditions.
Awards will be discretionary and on a year by year basis determined by Prudentials full year financial results and the employees contribution to the business.
All awards will be in Prudential shares except for countries where share awards are not feasible due to securities and or tax reasons, where awards will be replaced by the cash value of the shares that would otherwise have been transferred.
Certain senior executives have annual incentive plans with awards paid in cash up to the target level of their plan.
The portion of any award for above target performance is made in the form of awards of shares deferred for three years, with the release of shares subject to close periods.
The shares are held in the employee share trust and shares equivalent to dividends otherwise payable will accumulate for the benefit of award holders during the deferral period up to the release date.
In addition, there are other share awards including the Prudential Corporation Asia Deferred Bonus Plan PCA DBP, Prudential Capital Deferred Bonus Plan PruCap DBP and other arrangements.
There are no performance conditions attaching to these deferred bonus plans and awards vest in full subject to the individual being employed by Prudential at the end of the vesting period.
The other arrangements relate to various awards that have been made without performance conditions to individual employees, typically in order to secure their appointment or ensure retention.
2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Options outstanding including conditional options millions millions Beginning of year: 12.7 2.44 14.5 2.57 Granted 14.0 2.28 6.9 3.28 Exercised 1.7 1.05 3.5 2.73 Forfeited 0.8 2.48 1.5 0.69 Expired 5.3 3.77 3.7 4.94 End of year 18.9 2.07 12.7 2.44 Options immediately exercisable, end of year 0.3 4.16 0.6 2.29 The weighted average share price of Prudential plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 4.17 compared to 5.46 for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Movements in share awards outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans relating to Prudential plc shares at 31 December 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2009 2008 Number of Number of awards awards Awards outstanding millions millions Beginning of year: 8.6 8.0 Granted 7.9 3.5 Exercised 2.2 1.7 Forfeited 0.8 0.9 Expired 1.0 0.3 End of year 12.5 8.6 286 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options including conditional options outstanding at 31 December 2009.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 0 and 1 6.7 8.6 0.0 Between 1 and 2 Between 2 and 3 10.0 3.6 2.88 Between 3 and 4 0.1 1.0 3.62 0.1 3.43 Between 4 and 5 1.5 3.0 4.37 0.2 4.73 Between 5 and 6 0.6 1.9 5.60 0.0 5.65 Between 6 and 7 Between 7 and 8 18.9 5.2 2.07 0.3 4.16 The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options including conditional options outstanding at 31 December 2008.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 0 and 1 5.9 8.3 0.3 Between 1 and 2 Between 2 and 3 0.3 1.7 2.66 0.0 2.66 Between 3 and 4 0.5 1.4 3.56 0.0 3.65 Between 4 and 5 4.6 3.3 4.45 0.3 4.07 Between 5 and 6 1.4 2.8 5.59 Between 6 and 7 0.0 0.4 6.17 0.0 6.17 Between 7 and 8 12.7 5.5 2.44 0.6 2.29 The years shown above for weighted average remaining contractual life include the time period from end of vesting period to expiration of contract.
The weighted average fair values of Prudential plc options and awards granted during the period are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted average fair value Weighted average fair value Other Other GPSP options Awards GPSP options Awards 3.52 1.55 4.67 4.16 2.14 5.69 The fair value amounts relating to all options including conditional nil cost options above were determined using the Black-Scholes and the Monte Carlo option-pricing models using the following assumptions: 2009 2008 Other Other GPSP options GPSP options Dividend yield % 4.41 4.41 3.60 3.60 Expected volatility % 56.21 60.55 30.87 34.67 Risk-free interest rate % 1.92 2.15 4.23 4.46 Expected option life years 3.00 3.67 3.00 3.74 Weighted average exercise price 2.96 4.74 Weighted average share price 4.83 3.82 6.63 6.16 287 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I3: Share-based payments continued Under IFRS, compensation costs for all share-based compensation plans are determined using the Black-Scholes model and the Monte Carlo model.
Share options and awards are valued using the share price at the date of grant.
The compensation costs for all awards and options are recognised in net income over the plans respective vesting periods.
The Group uses the Black-Scholes model to value all options and awards other than the GPSP, for which the Group uses a Monte Carlo model in order to allow for the impact of the TSR performance conditions.
These models are used to calculate fair values for share options and awards at the grant date based on the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date, the amount, if any, that the employees are required to pay, the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and exercise prices.
The expected volatility is measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period up to the grant date equal to the expected life of options.
Risk-free interest rates are UK gilt rates with projections for three, five and seven year terms to match corresponding vesting periods.
Dividend yield is determined as the average yield over the year of grant and expected dividends are not incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
For the GPSP, volatility and correlation between Prudential and an index constructed from a simple average of the TSR growth of 11 companies is required.
For grants in 2009, an average index volatility and correlation of 40 per cent and 83 per cent respectively, were used.
Changes to the subjective input assumptions could materially affect the fair value estimate.
When options are granted or awards made to employees, an estimate is made of what percentage is more than likely to vest, be forfeited, lapse or cancelled based on historical information.
Based on these estimates, compensation expense to be accrued at that date is calculated and amortised over the vesting period.
For early exercises of options or release of awards due to redundancy, death or resignation, the compensation expense is immediately recognised and for forfeitures due to employees leaving the Group, any previously recognised expense is reversed.
However, if an employee loses their award because of the Groups failure to meet the performance criteria, previously recognised expense is not reversed.
During the year, the Group granted share options to certain non-employee independent financial advisors.
Those options were measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions consistent with those of other share options.
These transactions were measured using an option model because the Group does not receive a separate and measurable benefit from those non-employees in exchange for the options granted.
As such, the fair value of the options themselves is more readily determinable than the services received in return.
c Total share-based payment expense Total expense recognised in the year in the consolidated financial statements related to share-based compensation is as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Share-based compensation expense 37 23 Amount accounted for as equity-settled 29 27 Carrying value at 31 December of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 13 12 Intrinsic value of above liabilities for which rights had vested at 31 December 7 4 I4: Key management remuneration Key management constitutes the directors of Prudential plc as they have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Total key management remuneration amounts to 20,989,000 2008: 18,122,000.
Post-employment benefits comprise the change in the transfer value of the accrued benefit relating to directors defined benefit pension schemes in the year and the total contributions made to directors other pension arrangements.
The share-based payments charge is the sum of 5,270,000 2008: 4,624,000, which is determined in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments see note I3 and 2,102,000 2008: 1,563,000 of deferred share awards.
Total key management remuneration includes total directors emoluments of 15,090,000 2008: 12,683,000 as shown in the directors remuneration table and related footnotes in the directors remuneration report, and additional amounts in respect of pensions and share-based payments.
Further information on directors remuneration is given in the directors remuneration report.
288 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL I STATEMENTS I I5: Fees payable to auditor 2009 m 2008 m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.8 1.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 5.5 5.0 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 2.7 2.4 Other services relating to taxation 0.6 0.6 Valuation and actuarial services 0.1 0.7 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.7 All other services 1.0 0.5 Total 12.4 10.8 In addition, there were fees incurred of 0.2 million 2008: 0.2 million for the audit of pension schemes.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services provided to the Group by its auditor and has developed a formal Auditor Independence Policy which sets out the types of services that the auditor may provide, consistent with the guidance in Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance and with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors objectivity and independence.
More information on these issues is given in the corporate governance report within this Annual Report.
I6: Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial position sheet at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
Further details of the aggregate assets, liabilities, revenues, profits or losses and reporting dates of entities considered to be associates under IFRS are disclosed in note H8.
Executive officers and directors of the Company may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products marketed by Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
Apart from the transactions with directors referred to below, no director had interests in shares, transactions or arrangements that require disclosure, other than those given in the directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note I4.
In 2009 and 2008, other transactions with directors were not deemed to be significant both by virtue of their size and in the context of the directors financial positions.
As indicated above, all of these transactions are on terms broadly equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
I7: Subsidiary undertakings i Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2009 were: Country of Main activity incorporation The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Annuities Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL Insurance Scotland M&G Investment Management Limited Asset management England and Wales Jackson National Life Insurance Company Insurance US Prudential Assurance Company Singapore Pte Limited Insurance Singapore Owned by a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
Each subsidiary has one class of ordinary shares and operates mainly in its country of incorporation, except for PRIL which operates mainly in England and Wales.
289 Notes on the Group financial statements I: Other notes continued I7: Subsidiary undertakings continued ii Dividend restrictions and minimum capital requirements Certain Group subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins which must be supported by capital reserves and other resources, including unrealised gains on investments.
Furthermore, without the prior regulatory approval, dividends cannot be distributed if all dividends made within the preceding 12 months exceed the greater of Jacksons statutory net gain from operations or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus for the prior year.
In 2010, the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid by Jackson without prior regulatory approval is US$454 million 281 million in 2009: US$290 million 202 million.
The Groups Asian subsidiaries, mainly the Singapore and Malaysia businesses, may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
The Group capital position statement for life assurance businesses is set out in note D5, showing the available capital reflecting the excess of regulatory basis over liabilities for each fund or group of companies determined by reference to the local regulation of the subsidiaries.
In addition, disclosure is also provided in note D5 of the local capital requirement of each of the fund or group of companies.
iii Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries There were no material acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries during the year in 2009 and 2008. iv PAC with-profits fund acquisitions and disposals There were no new acquisitions or disposals by the PAC with-profits fund in 2009 and 2008.
However, during 2009, the holding in the voting equity interest of Red Funnel increased from 90 per cent to 100 per cent.
In 2008, this holding increased from 78 per cent to 90 per cent.
Red Funnel is a venture capital holding owned by the PAC with-profits fund managed by M&G.
I8: Commitments i Operating leases The Group leases various offices to conduct its business.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2009 m 2008 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 63 86 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 178 199 Later than 5 years 104 140 The total minimum future sublease rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings for the year ended 31 December 2009 were nil 2008: 0.2 million.
Minimum lease rental payments for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 105 million 2008: 84 million are included in the consolidated income statement.
ii Capital commitments The Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third-parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
At 31 December 2009, there were no contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties 2008: 1 million.
I9: Discontinued operations The charge of 14 million, which is net of nil tax, reflects completion adjustments for a previously disposed business.
290 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I I10: Cash flows Within the analysis of the items for 2008 that reconcile from the total loss of 2,074 million to the net cash flow from operating activities of 1,144 million reclassification adjustments in respect of two items have been made.
These adjustments are to: a increase the change in operating assets and liabilities attributable to investments, and decrease the amount attributable to other non-investment and non-cash assets, by 831 million, for shadow DAC movements accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income, and b increase the deduction for the interest income and expense and dividend income included in the result before tax and interest receipts by 2,938 million for foreign exchange losses, arising principally with the PAC with-profits fund, that were previously netted within the amounts for these lines.
Structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations comprise core debt of the parent company and Jackson surplus notes.
Core debt excludes borrowings to support short-term fixed income securities programmes, non-recourse borrowings of investment subsidiaries of shareholder-financed operations and other borrowings of shareholder-financed operations.
Cash flows in respect of these borrowings are included within cash flows from operating activities.
Structural borrowings of with-profits operations relate solely to the 100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds which contribute to the solvency base of SAIF.
Cash flows in respect of other borrowings of with-profits funds, which principally relate to consolidated investment funds are also included within cash flows from operating activities.
I11: Post balance sheet events i Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited On 6 January 2010 the Group announced the acquisition from United Overseas Bank Limited UOB of its 100 per cent interest in UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore for total cash consideration of SGD 428 million 192 million subject to a post-completion adjustment to reflect the net asset value as at the completion date.
This acquisition accompanied the announcement of a long-term strategic partnership with UOB.
Through this partnership Prudentials life insurance products will be distributed through UOBs 414 bank branches across Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand.
The Group continues to complete its compilation of the acquisition balance sheet and further details will be provided in the Groups 2010 half year results announcement.
ii Japanese insurance subsidiarys suspension of writing new business On 15 January 2010 the Groups Japanese insurance subsidiary announced its intention to suspend writing new policyholder contracts in Japan after 15 February 2010.
The company reinforced its commitment to servicing its existing policyholder base, which comprised over 170,000 contracts as at 30 September 2009.
This decision will be reviewed on an on-going basis in light of changes to the business environment.
This decision does not effect the Groups asset management operations in Japan, which ranks among the largest foreign asset managers.
iii Agreement to acquire AIA Group Limited On 1 March 2010, Prudential plc announced that it had reached agreement with American International Group Inc. AIG, on terms for the combination of Prudential and AIA Group Limited AIA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG the Transaction.
AIA is a leading life insurance organisation in Asia which provides individuals and businesses with products and services for their insurance, protection, savings, investment and retirement needs in 15 geographical markets in the region.
The combined group will be the leading life insurer in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines with the leading foreign life insurance business in China and India, a significantly enhanced presence in the high growth South East Asian life markets and strong operations in the US and UK.
The Transaction will be effected through the acquisition of both Prudential by a scheme of arrangement, the Scheme and AIA by a new company New Prudential.
The new company will assume the name Prudential plc, be headquartered and incorporated in the UK, and traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange with ADRs traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The existing Board of Prudential will become the Board of New Prudential.
AIG will receive total consideration of US$35.5 billion, comprising US$25.0 billion in cash and US$10.5 billion in New Prudential shares and other securities.
The cash component of the consideration will be financed through an underwritten rights issue, raising US$20.0 billion net of fees and expenses and through issuance of US$ 5.0 billion senior notes net of fees and expenses.
These issues have been agreed to be underwritten by certain banks.
The terms of the rights issue will be set at the time of publication of Prudential and New Prudential prospectuses.
The rights issue and the Scheme will be subject to shareholder approval at a General Meeting.
The Transaction is also subject to certain regulatory and anti-trust approvals including various regulatory approvals required on a change of control of Prudential as a result of the Scheme.
On 8 March 2010 the Company confirmed that the Prudential Group had entered into foreign exchange hedging arrangements in respect of its requirement to convert the pounds sterling proceeds of the rights issue into US dollars, which is the currency in which Prudential must pay the cash element of the consideration.
