Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation The EEV basis results have been prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles issued by the CFO Forum of European Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures published in October 2005.
Where appropriate, the EEV basis results include the effects of adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles.
a Covered business The EEV results for the Group are prepared for covered business, as defined by the EEV Principles.
Covered business represents the Groups long-term insurance business for which the value of new and in-force contracts is attributable to shareholders.
The EEV basis results for the Groups covered business are then combined with the IFRS basis results of the Groups other operations.
The definition of long-term business operations is consistent with previous practice and comprises those contracts falling under the definition of long-term insurance business for regulatory purposes together with, for US operations, contracts that are in substance the same as guaranteed investment contracts GICs but do not fall within the technical definition.
Under the EEV Principles, the results for covered business incorporate the projected margins of attaching internal asset management.
With two principal exceptions, covered business comprises the Groups long-term business operations.
The principal exceptions are for the closed Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF and for the presentational treatment of the financial position of the Groups principal defined benefit pension scheme, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
A small amount of UK group pensions business is also not modelled for EEV reporting purposes.
SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance Company PAC long-term fund, established by a Court approved Scheme of Arrangement in October 1997.
SAIF is closed to new business and the assets and liabilities of the fund are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
As regards PSPS, the deficit funding liability attaching to the shareholder-backed business is included in the total for Other operations, reflecting the fact that the deficit funding is being paid for by the parent company, Prudential plc.
b Methodology i Embedded value Overview The embedded value is the present value of the shareholders interest in the earnings distributable from assets allocated to covered business after sufficient allowance has been made for the aggregate risks in that business.
The shareholders interest in the Groups long-term business comprises: present value of future shareholder cash flows from in-force covered business value of in-force business, less a deduction for the cost of locked-in encumbered capital: locked-in encumbered capital: and shareholders net worth in excess of encumbered capital free surplus.
The value of future new business is excluded from the embedded value.
Notwithstanding the basis of presentation of results as explained in note 1c iv no smoothing of market or account balance values, unrealised gains or investment return is applied in determining the embedded value or profit before tax.
Separately, the analysis of profit is delineated between operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and other constituent items, as explained in note 1c i. Valuation of new business The contribution from new business represents profits determined by applying non-economic assumptions as at the end of the year.
In determining the new business contribution for UK immediate annuity and lifetime mortgage business, which is interest rate sensitive, it is appropriate to use assumptions reflecting point of sale market conditions, consistent with how the business is priced.
For other business within the Group, end of period economic assumptions are used.
Valuation movements on investments With the exception of debt securities held by Jackson, investment gains and losses during the period to the extent that changes in capital values do not directly match changes in liabilities are included directly in the profit for the period and shareholders equity as they arise.
The results for any covered business conceptually reflects the aggregate of the IFRS results and the movements on the additional shareholders interest recognised on the EEV basis.
Thus the start point for the calculation of the EEV results for Jackson, as for other businesses, reflects the market value movements recognised on the IFRS basis.
However, in determining the movements on the additional shareholders interest, the basis for calculating the Jackson EEV result acknowledges that for debt securities backing liabilities the aggregate EEV results reflect the fact that the value of in-force business instead incorporates the discounted value of future spread earnings.
This value is not affected generally by short-term market movements on securities that are broadly speaking held for the longer term.
Fixed income securities backing the free surplus and required capital for Jackson are accounted for at fair value.
However, consistent with the treatment applied under IFRS for Jackson securities classified as available-for-sale, movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are accounted for in equity rather than in the income statement, as shown in the movement in shareholders equity.
308 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV Value of in-force business The embedded value results are prepared incorporating best estimate assumptions about all relevant factors including levels of future investment returns, expenses, persistency and mortality.
These assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and the non-diversifiable risks associated with the cash flows that are not otherwise allowed for.
The total profit that emerges over the lifetime of an individual contract as calculated using the embedded value basis is the same as that calculated under the IFRS basis.
Since the embedded value basis reflects discounted future cash flows, under this methodology the profit emergence is advanced thus more closely aligning the timing of the recognition of profits with the efforts and risks of current management actions, particularly with regard to business sold during the year.
Cost of capital A charge is deducted from the embedded value for the cost of capital supporting the Groups long-term business.
This capital is referred to as encumbered capital.
The cost is the difference between the nominal value of the capital and the discounted value of the projected releases of this capital allowing for investment earnings net of tax on the capital.
The annual result is affected by the movement in this cost from year to year which comprises a charge against new business profit and generally a release in respect of the reduction in capital requirements for business in force as this runs off.
Where encumbered capital is held within a with-profits long-term fund, the value placed on surplus assets in the fund is already discounted to reflect its release over time and no further adjustment is necessary in respect of encumbered capital.
Financial options and guarantees Nature of options and guarantees in Prudentials long-term business Asian operations Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described below in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts principally written in the PAC Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the insurer is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all benefits.
Whole of life contracts with floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequent with market conditions are written in the Korean life operations.
This is to a much lesser extent than the policies written by the Taiwan Life business which was sold in the first half of 2009, as detailed in note 18.
US operations Jackson The principal options and guarantees in Jackson are associated with the fixed annuity and Variable Annuity VA lines of business.
Fixed annuities provide that, at Jacksons discretion, it may reset the interest rate credited to policyholders accounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The guaranteed minimum return varies from 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent 2008: 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent, depending on the particular product, jurisdiction where issued, and date of issue.
At 31 December 2009, 82 per cent 2008: 83 per cent of the account values on fixed annuities relates to policies with guarantees of 3 per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 3.0 per cent 2008: 3.0 per cent.
Fixed annuities also present a risk that policyholders will exercise their option to surrender their contracts in periods of rapidly rising interest rates, possibly requiring Jackson to liquidate assets at an inopportune time.
Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contract holder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the specified contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable at specified dates during the accumulation period Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB and minimum accumulation, death and income benefits.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts.
These guarantees generally protect the policyholders value in the event of poor equity market performance.
Jackson also issues fixed index annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return while providing a guaranteed minimum return.
The guaranteed minimum returns would be of a similar nature to those described above for fixed annuities.
UK insurance operations The only significant financial options and guarantees in the UK insurance operations arise in the with-profits fund and SAIF.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year and, once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The with-profits fund held a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 31 million 2008: 42 million at 31 December 2009 to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity option products.
Beyond the generic features and the provisions held in respect of guaranteed annuities described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees of the with-profits fund such as minimum investment returns, surrender values, or annuity values at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuity options in the UK is through SAIF and a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 284 million 2008: 391 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2009 to honour the guarantees.
309 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued Time value The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts.
One is given by a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions the intrinsic value.
The other part arises from the variability of economic outcomes in the future the time value.
Where appropriate, a full stochastic valuation has been undertaken to determine the value of the in-force business including the cost of capital.
A deterministic valuation of the in-force business is also derived using consistent assumptions and the time value of the financial options and guarantees is derived as the difference between the two.
The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of long-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with an allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details of the key characteristics of each model are given in note 16. ii Level of encumbered capital In adopting the EEV Principles, Prudential has based encumbered capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements.
Economic capital is assessed using internal models but, when applying the EEV Principles, Prudential does not take credit for the significant diversification benefits that exist within the Group.
For with-profits business written in a segregated life fund, as is the case in Asia and the UK, the capital available in the fund is sufficient to meet the encumbered capital requirements.
For shareholder-backed business the following capital requirements apply: Asian operations: the level of encumbered capital has been set at the higher of local statutory requirements and the economic capital requirement: US operations: the level of encumbered capital has been set to an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC at the Company Action Level CAL : and UK insurance operations: the capital requirements are set at the higher of Pillar I and Pillar II requirements for shareholder-backed business of UK insurance operations as a whole, which for 2009 and 2008 was Pillar I. iii Allowance for risk and risk discount rates Overview Under the EEV Principles, discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows are set equal to risk-free rates plus a risk margin.
The risk margin should reflect any non-diversifiable risk associated with the emergence of distributable earnings that is not allowed for elsewhere in the valuation.
Prudential has selected a granular approach to better reflect differences in market risk inherent in each product group.
The risk discount rate so derived does not reflect an overall Group market beta but instead reflects the expected volatility associated with the cash flows for each product category in the embedded value model.
Since financial options and guarantees are explicitly valued under the EEV methodology, discount rates under EEV are set excluding the effect of these product features.
The risk margin represents the aggregate of the allowance for market risk, additional allowance for credit risk where appropriate, and allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risk.
No allowance is required for non-market risks where these are assumed to be fully diversifiable.
The majority of non-market and non-credit risks are considered to be diversifiable.
Market risk allowance The allowance for market risk represents the multiple of beta x equity risk premium.
Except for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as explained below such an approach has been used for all of the Groups businesses.
The beta of a portfolio or product measures its relative market risk.
The risk discount rates reflect the market risk inherent in each product group and hence the volatility of product cash flows.
These are determined by considering how the profits from each product are affected by changes in expected returns on various asset classes.
By converting this into a relative rate of return it is possible to derive a product specific beta.
Product level betas are calculated each year.
They are combined with the most recent product mix to produce appropriate betas and risk discount rates for each major product grouping.
Additional credit risk allowance The Groups methodology is to allow appropriately for credit risk.
The allowance for credit risk is to cover: expected long-term defaults: credit risk premium to reflect the volatility in default levels : and short-term downgrades and defaults.
These allowances are initially reflected in determining best-estimate returns and through the market risk allowance described above.
However, for those businesses which are largely backed by holdings of debt securities these allowances in the projected returns and market risk allowances may not be sufficient and an additional allowance may be appropriate.
The practical application of the allowance for credit risk varies depending upon the type of business as described below.
310 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV Asian operations For Asian operations, the allowance for credit risk incorporated in the projected rates of return and the market risk allowance are sufficient.
Accordingly no additional allowance for credit risk is required.
US business For Jackson business, the allowance for long-term defaults is reflected in the risk margin reserve charge which is deducted in determining the projected spread margin between the earned rate on the investments and the policyholder crediting rate.
For 2009 the risk discount rate incorporates an additional allowance for credit risk premium and short-term defaults.
The allowance for 2009 is 150 basis points for spread-based business and 30 basis points for variable annuity business to reflect the fact that a proportion of the variable annuity business is allocated to the general account.
The level of allowance differs from that for UK annuity business for investment portfolio differences and to take account of the management actions available in adverse economic scenarios to reduce crediting rates to policyholders, subject to guarantee features of the products.
For 2008 and previously, allowance for these elements of credit risk was recognised only in the risk margin reserve charge and to the extent implicit within the market risk allowance.
UK business a Shareholder-backed annuity business For Prudentials UK shareholder-backed annuity business, Prudential has used a market consistent embedded value MCEV approach to derive an implied risk discount rate which is then applied to the projected best estimate cash flows.
In the annuity MCEV calculations, the future cash flows are discounted using the swap yield curve plus an allowance for liquidity premium based on Prudentials assessment of the expected return on the assets backing the annuity liabilities after allowing for expected long-term defaults, credit risk premium and short-term downgrades and defaults.
For the purposes of presentation in the EEV results, the results on this basis are reconfigured.
Under this approach the projected earned rate of return on the debt securities held is determined after allowing for expected long-term defaults and, where necessary, an additional allowance for an element of short-term downgrades and defaults to bring the allowance in the earned rate up to best estimate levels.
The allowances for credit risk premium and additional short-term default allowance are incorporated into the risk margin included in the discount rate.
b With-profit fund PAL annuity business For UK annuity business written by PAL for 2008 the allowance for credit risk was for best estimate defaults.
For 2009, the basis for determining the appropriate aggregate allowance for credit risk has been aligned with that of UK shareholder-backed annuity business so as also to include provision for short-term defaults.
The allowance for credit risk in PAL is taken into account in determining the projected cash flows to the with-profits fund, which are in turn discounted at the risk discount rate applicable to all of the projected cash flows of the fund.
c With-profit fund holdings of debt securities The UK with-profits fund holds debt securities as part of its investment portfolio backing policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus.
For 2008, given the expectation that the widening of credit spreads observed in 2008 would not be maintained, the Company considered it appropriate to assume an unchanged level of credit spreads, an unchanged level of default allowance and an unchanged risk discount rate methodology relative to those used at 31 December 2007.
For 2009, the approach for with-profit holdings has been refined.
For equities and properties the projected earned rate is defined as the risk-free rate plus a long-term risk premium.
Under the revised methodology a similar approach is adopted for corporate bonds i. e. the assumed earned rate is defined as the risk-free rate plus an assessment of the long-term spread over gilts, net of expected long-term defaults.
Allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risks Finance theory cannot be used to determine the appropriate component of beta for non-diversifiable non-market risks since there is no observable risk premium associated with it that is akin to the equity risk premium.
Recognising this, a pragmatic approach has been applied.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business, a margin of 100 basis points is used to cover the non-diversifiable non-market risks associated with the business.
For the Groups other business a margin of 50 basis points is applied with, where necessary, an additional allowance for emerging market risk.
The additional 50 basis points for UK annuities business reflects the longevity risk which is of particular relevance.
iv Management actions In deriving the time value of financial options and guarantees, management actions in response to emerging investment and fund solvency conditions have been modelled.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, the following areas: investment allocation decisions: levels of reversionary bonuses and credited rates: and total claim values.
Bonus rates are projected from current levels and varied in accordance with assumed management actions applying in the emerging investment and fund solvency conditions.
In all instances, the modelled actions are in accordance with approved local practice and therefore reflect the options actually available to management.
For the PAC with-profits fund, the actions assumed are consistent with those set out in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
311 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued v With-profits business and the treatment of the estate The proportion of surplus allocated to shareholders from the PAC with-profits fund has been based on the present level of 10 per cent.
The value attributed to the shareholders interest in the estate is derived by increasing final bonus rates and related shareholder transfers so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
In those few extreme scenarios where the total assets of the life fund are insufficient to meet policyholder claims in full, the excess cost is fully attributed to shareholders.
Similar principles apply, where appropriate, for other with-profit funds of the Groups Asian operations.
vi Pension costs The Group operates three defined benefit schemes in the UK.
The principal scheme is the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
The other two, much smaller, schemes are the Scottish Amicable and M&G schemes.
There is also a small scheme in Taiwan, but as part of the sale of the Taiwan agency business completed in June 2009, the Group settled the majority of the obligations under the scheme as a significant number of employees were transferred out.
Under IFRS the surpluses or deficits attaching to these schemes are accounted for in accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 that apply the principles of IFRIC 14, which was adopted in 2008 providing guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus in a defined benefit pension scheme that can be recognised as an asset.
Under the EEV basis the IAS 19 basis surpluses to the extent not restricted under IFRIC 14 or deficits are initially allocated in the same manner.
The shareholders 10 per cent interest in the PAC with-profits fund estate is determined after inclusion of the portion of the IAS 19 basis surpluses or deficits attributable to the fund.
Adjustments under EEV in respect of accounting for surpluses or deficits on the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme are reflected as part of UK operations and for other defined benefit schemes the adjustments are reflected as part of Other operations, as shown in note 7.
Separately, the projected cash flows of in-force covered business include the cost of contributions to the defined benefit schemes for future service based on the contribution basis applying to the schemes at the time of the preparation of the results.
vii Debt capital Core structural debt liabilities are carried at market value.
As the liabilities are generally held to maturity or for the long-term, no deferred tax asset or liability has been established on the difference, compared to the IFRS carrying value.
Accordingly, no deferred tax credit or charge is recorded in the results for the reporting period in respect of the mark to market value adjustment.
viii Foreign currency translation Foreign currency profits and losses have been translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities have been translated at year end rates of exchange.
The purpose of translating the profits and losses at average exchange rates, notwithstanding the fact that EEV profit represents the incremental value added on a discounted cash flow basis, is to maintain consistency with the methodology applied for IFRS basis reporting.
c Accounting presentation i Analysis of profit before tax To the extent applicable, presentation of the EEV profit for the year is consistent with the basis that the Group applies for analysis of IFRS basis profits before shareholder taxes between operating and non-operating results.
Operating results reflect the underlying results including longer-term investment returns and, except as explained in note iv below, the unwind of discount on the value of in-force business.
Operating results include the impact of routine changes of estimates and non-economic assumptions.
Non operating results comprise short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes, the mark to market value movements on core borrowings and the effect of changes in economic assumptions and changes in the time value of cost of options and guarantees arising from changes in economic factors.
In 2009, during the severe equity market conditions experienced in the first quarter of 2009, coupled with historically high equity volatility, the Group incurred nonrecurrent costs from an exceptional short dated hedge to protect against tail events on the Group IGD capital position in addition to regular operational hedging programmes.
These costs have been shown separately within short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Also, in June 2009, the Group completed the disposal of the Taiwan agency business.
The effect of this disposal and the results of the Taiwan agency business have been presented separately outside of the operating result.
ii Operating profit For the investment element of the assets covering the net worth of long-term insurance business, investment returns are recognised in operating results at the expected long-term rate of return.
These expected returns are calculated by reference to the asset mix of the portfolio.
For the purpose of calculating the longer-term investment return to be included in the operating result of the PAC with-profits fund of UK operations, where assets backing the liabilities and unallocated surplus are subject to market volatility, values of assets at the beginning of the reporting period are adjusted to remove the effects of short-term market movements.
For the purpose of determining the long-term returns for debt securities of US operations for fixed annuity and other general account business, a risk margin charge is included which reflects the expected long-term rate of default based on the credit quality of the portfolio.
For Jackson, interest-related realised gains and losses are amortised to the operating results over the maturity period of the sold bonds and for equity-related investments, a long-term rate of return is assumed, which reflects the aggregation of year-end risk-free rates and equity risk premium.
For US variable annuity separate account business, operating profit includes the unwind of discount on the opening value of in force adjusted to reflect year-end projected rates of return with the excess or deficit of the actual return recognised within non-operating profit, together with the related hedging activity.
312 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV For UK annuity business, rebalancing of the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders may from time to time take place to align it more closely with the internal benchmark of credit quality that management applies.
Such rebalancing will result in a change in the projected yield on the asset portfolio and the allowance for default risk.
The net effect of these changes is reflected in the result for the year.
In general, the effect is booked in operating results.
However, in 2008 the element due to the exceptional spread widening in the market since 31 December 2006 was booked in the effect of change in economic assumptions.
iii Effect of changes in operating assumptions Operating profits include the effect of changes to operating assumptions on the value of in force at the end of the period.
For presentational purposes, the effect of change is delineated to show the effect on the opening value of in force with the experience variance being determined by reference to the end of period assumptions.
iv Unwind of discount and other expected returns The unwind of discount and other expected returns is determined by reference to the value of in-force business, required capital and surplus assets at the start of the period as adjusted for the effect of changes in economic and operating assumptions reflected in the current period.
For UK insurance operations the amount included within operating results based on longer-term returns represents the unwind of discount on the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period adjusted for the effect of current period assumption changes, the unwind of discount on additional value representing the shareholders share of smoothed surplus assets retained within the PAC with-profits fund as explained in note 1b v above, and the expected return on shareholders assets held in other UK long-term business operations.
Surplus assets retained within the PAC with-profits fund are smoothed for this purpose to remove the effects of short-term investment volatility from operating results.
In the summary statement of financial position and for total profit reporting, asset values and investment returns are not smoothed.
v Pension costs Profit before tax Movements on the shareholders share of surpluses to the extent not restricted by IFRIC 14 and deficits of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes adjusted for contributions paid in the year are recorded within the income statement.
Consistent with the basis of distribution of bonuses and the treatment of the estate described in note 1b iv and v, the shareholders share incorporates 10 per cent of the proportion of the financial position attributable to the PAC with-profits fund.
The financial position is determined by applying the requirements of IAS 19.
Actuarial and other gains and losses For pension schemes in which the IAS 19 position reflects the difference between the assets and liabilities of the scheme, actuarial and other gains and losses comprise: the difference between actual and expected return on the scheme assets: experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: the impact of altered economic and other assumptions on the discounted value of scheme liabilities: and for pension schemes where the IAS 19 position reflects a deficit funding obligation, actuarial and other gains and losses reflect the movement in estimates of deficit funding requirements.
These items are recorded in the income statement but, consistent with the IFRS basis of presentation, are excluded from operating results.
vi Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees Movements in the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period caused by changes in economic assumptions and the time value of cost of options and guarantees resulting from changes in economic factors are recorded in non-operating results.
vii Taxation The EEV profit for the year for covered business is in most cases calculated initially at the post-tax level.
The post-tax profit is then grossed up for presentation purposes at the effective rate of tax.
In general, the effective rate corresponds to the corporation tax rate on shareholder profits of the business concerned.
viii Inter-company arrangements The EEV results for covered business incorporate the effect of the reinsurance arrangement of non-profit immediate pension annuity liabilities of SAIF which is not covered business to PRIL.
In addition, the analysis of free surplus and value of in-force business takes account of the impact of contingent loan arrangements between Group companies.
313 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued ix Foreign exchange rates Foreign currency results have been translated as discussed in note 1b viii, for which the principal exchange rates are as follows: Closing rate at Average Closing rate at Average Opening rate Local currency: 31 Dec 2009 for 2009 31 Dec 2008 for 2008 at 1 Jan 2008 Hong Kong 12.52 12.14 11.14 14.42 15.52 Indonesia 15,171.52 16,173.28 15,799.22 17,749.22 18,696.71 Japan 150.33 146.46 130.33 192.09 222.38 Malaysia 5.53 5.51 5.02 6.15 6.58 Singapore 2.27 2.27 2.07 2.61 2.87 Taiwan 51.65 51.65 47.28 58.24 64.56 US 1.61 1.57 1.44 1.85 1.99 2 Analysis of new business contribution 2009 m 2009 % Annual Present value premium and of new contribution business Pre-tax new New business premiums New business margin equivalents premiums business note 17 note i APE PVNBP contribution Single Regular note i, 17 note i, 17 note ii, iii APE PVNBP note iv Asian operations 842 1,177 1,261 6,245 713 57 11.4 note v US operations 8,885 24 912 9,048 664 73 7.3 UK insurance operations 4,768 246 723 5,902 230 32 3.9 Total 14,495 1,447 2,896 21,195 1,607 56 7.6 2008 m 2008 % Annual Present value premium and of new contribution business Pre-tax new New business premiums New business margin equivalents premiums business note 17 note i APE PVNBP contribution Single Regular note i, 17 note i, 17 note ii, iii APE PVNBP note iv Asian operations 1,340 1,082 1,216 6,508 634 52 9.7 note v US operations 6,917 24 716 7,140 293 41 4.1 UK insurance operations 6,929 254 947 8,081 273 29 3.4 Total 15,186 1,360 2,879 21,729 1,200 42 5.5 New business margin APE APE 2009 % 2008 % Asian operations: China 50 52 Hong Kong 70 79 India 19 19 Indonesia 73 58 Korea 44 34 note iv Taiwan 18 22 Other 72 72 Weighted average for all Asian operations 57 52 Notes i New business margins are shown on two bases, namely the margins by reference to Annual Premium Equivalents APE and the Present Value of New Business Premiums PVNBP and are calculated as the ratio of the value of new business profit to APE and PVNBP.
APEs are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
PVNBPs are calculated as equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
ii In determining the EEV basis value of new business written in the period the policies incept, premiums are included in projected cash flows on the same basis of distinguishing annual and single premium business as set out for statutory basis reporting.
314 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV iii New business contributions represent profits determined by applying non-economic assumptions as at the end of the year.
In general, the use of point of sale or end of period economic assumptions is not significant in determining the new business contribution for different types of business and across financial reporting periods.
However, to obtain proper measurement of the new business contribution for business which is interest rate sensitive, it is appropriate to use assumptions reflecting point of sale market conditions, consistent with how the business was priced.
In practice, the only area within the Group where this has a material effect is for UK shareholder-backed annuity and lifetime mortgage business.
For other business within the Group end of period economic assumptions are used.
iv The tables above include new business for the Taiwan bank distribution operation.
New business of the Taiwan agency business, which was sold in June 2009 is excluded from the tables but included in the result for the sold Taiwan agency business, shown separately in the analysis of profit, as shown in note 18.
Comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.
v The increase in new business margin for US operations for 2009 reflects the significant changes to target spread for Fixed Annuity and Fixed Index Annuity business primarily as a result of the exceptional combined benefit of high investment yields on new assets and lower crediting rates, as described in note 16b, and the increasing proportion of variable annuity business, for which margins have benefited from the increased projected separate account return, revised benefits and higher take-up rates on the higher margin guaranteed withdrawal benefits.
3 Operating profit from business in force Group summary 2009 Asian US UK operations operations operations note iv note v note vi Total m m m m note i Unwind of discount and other expected returns 489 344 588 1,421 note ii Effect of change in operating assumptions 12 101 89 note iii Experience variances and other items 85 124 52 91 Total 392 569 640 1,601 2008 Asian US UK operations operations operations note iv note v note vi Total m m m m Unwind of discount and other expected returns 409 233 569 1,211 Effect of change in operating assumptions 165 17 148 Experience variances and other items 5 77 195 277 Total 579 293 764 1,636 Notes i Unwind of discount and other expected returns The increase in unwind of discount and other expected returns from 1,211 million for 2008 to 1,421 million for 2009 mainly arises in the US, primarily reflecting an increase in the discount rate applied to the value of in-force business as adjusted for the effects of changes in operating and non-operating assumptions and in Asian operations as a result of higher start of year value of in-force business, reflecting the increasing growth of this business.
ii Effect of change in operating assumptions The charge of 12 million for Asian operations in 2009 primarily represents a charge of 78 million for the effect of strengthening persistency assumptions, offset by a credit of 69 million relating to altered projected net of tax cash flows arising from a regulatory reclassification of health and protection products in Hong Kong.
The change in persistency assumptions are mainly as a direct consequence of the impact on policyholders savings behaviour from adverse economic and market conditions, arising primarily for investment related products, principally in Korea 25 million and Hong Kong 12 million, mostly due to premium holidays, and in Indonesia 24 million, reflecting recent experience.
The credit of 101 million for US operations in 2009 primarily reflects the positive impact of altered assumptions arising from beneficial policyholder behaviour for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefits on Variable Annuity business, as explained in note v 1 below.
iii Experience variances and other items The 85 million charge for Asian operations in 2009 primarily represents the effects of adverse persistency of 76 million, as customers have withdrawn from investment related products for which assumptions have been strengthened, as explained in note ii above.
The residual 9 million charge reflects a combination of adverse expense experience of 43 million, offset by the favourable mortality and morbidity experience of 52 million, as explained in notes iv 5 and iv 6 below and a charge of 18 million for other items.
The 124 million credit in US operations in 2009 primarily represents 59 million for the amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses, 40 million for lower than expected levels of expenses and 32 million for favourable mortality experience as detailed in note v 7 below.
The credit of 52 million for UK insurance operations is detailed in note vi below.
315 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 3 Operating profit from business in force continued Analysis by business unit iv Asian operations 2009 2008 m m Unwind of discount and other expected returns 489 409 Effect of change in operating assumptions: 11 Mortality and morbidity 26 41 22 Expense 32 30 33 Persistency 78 79 44 Other 72 15 12 165 Experience variances and other items: 5 Mortality and morbidity 52 34 6 Expense 43 37 7 Persistency 76 16 Other 18 8 85 5 392 579 Notes 1 The favourable effect of 26 million in 2009 for mortality and morbidity assumption changes primarily arises in Indonesia of 24 million reflecting recent experience.
The benefit of 41 million for 2008 mainly relates to Singapore of 34 million and Hong Kong of 15 million, which reflect actual experience across most products, offset by a charge in Malaysia of 19 million which reflects negative morbidity experience on health and protection products.
2 The charge of 32 million for strengthened expense assumptions arises principally in Hong Kong of 23 million with the balance across the regions.
3 The negative effect of the change in persistency assumptions of 78 million in 2009 arises mostly with investment related products, principally in Korea 25 million, Indonesia 24 million and Hong Kong 12 million.
The favourable effect of the change in persistency assumptions of 79 million in 2008 predominately arose in Singapore 90 million, Hong Kong 28 million principally for health and protection products and in Malaysia 21 million which reflected improved lapse rates, based on recent experience, offset by a charge in Korea 44 million mainly relating to premium holidays.
4 The effect of other assumption changes for 2009 of 72 million comprises the one-off positive impact of 69 million for altered projected net of tax cash flows arising from a regulatory reclassification of health and protection products in Hong Kong, a credit of 13 million for the effect of altered application of the Groups EEV methodology and a net charge of 10 million for other items.
The 13 million effect comprises adjustments for asset management margins in Indonesia and Korea of 37 million and a charge of 24 million to better align the assumed capital requirement with internal management and pricing bases, primarily in China, Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam, and other minor adjustments with a neutral net effect.
5 The favourable effects of 52 million in 2009 and 34 million in 2008 relating to mortality and morbidity experience variances reflect better than expected experience across the territories.
6 The charge of 43 million for expense experience variance arises across the territories, principally in Korea 10 million reflecting the lower level of sales in the current year, 8 million in Taiwan, following the sale of the Agency business during the year and 16 million for expense overruns for operations which are at a relatively early stage of development, for which actual expenses are in excess of those factored into the product pricing.
The 2008 negative expense experience variance of 37 million includes a charge of 11 million arising in Korea, also reflecting lower sales.
7 The charge of 76 million in 2009 relating to negative persistency experience arises across the region with the largest impacts in Korea 29 million, India 11 million and Japan 9 million.
v US operations 2009 2008 m m Unwind of discount and other expected returns 344 233 Effect of changes in operating assumptions: 11 Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB policyholder behaviour 156 22 Mortality 33 31 3 Variable Annuity VA fees 13 29 44 Effect of adjustments for application of EEV methodology for certain reserves and required capital 61 55 Other 75 16 101 17 Experience variances and other items: 6 Spread experience variance 3 54 66 Amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses 59 28 77 Other 68 5 124 77 569 293 316 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV Notes 1 The positive impact of the change in GMWB policyholder behaviour assumptions of 156 million reflects the altered assumptions relating to the utilisation of withdrawal features available to policyholders on VA contracts which have been modified to take account of the more recent experience of policyholder behaviour when benefits are in the money.
Previously, policyholder behaviour for the utilisation of GMWB was assumed to be largely driven by the extent to which benefits were in the money.
For 2009, the assumption has been altered to take account of recent experience which shows that the attained age of the policyholder is the key factor in determining utilisation levels.
2 The 33 million credit for mortality for 2009 primarily reflects lower mortality rates for the Life of Georgia business, based upon actual experience since the acquisition of the business in 2005.
3 The effect of the change of assumption for VA fees represents the capitalised value of the change in the projected level of policyholder advisory fees, which vary according to the size and mix of VA funds.
The charge of 13 million for 2009 reflects a reduction in the projected level of fees paid by policyholders, according to the current fund mix.
The positive effect of the change in 2008 of 29 million represents an overall reassessment of the assumed fees, reflecting recent experience at that date.
4 The effect of the adjustments in 2008 for the application of EEV methodology for certain reserves and required capital of 61 million are as follows: 2008 m Effect of adjustments for application of EEV methodology for certain reserves and required capital: a Interest Maintenance Reserve IMR 10 b Variable Annuity Statutory Reserves 68 c Required Capital 17 61 a The IMR is a statutory liability in respect of realised gains on the sale of bonds which, on a regulatory basis, are amortised to income over time in line with the duration of the bonds sold.
b The statutory reserves are primarily in respect of guarantees on variable annuity products in excess of the surrender value.
c The adjustment in respect of required capital represents a current year refinement to reduce the required capital to align the amount with the required level which has been set as an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by National Association of Insurance Commissioners at the Company Action Level.
5 The effect of other changes in assumptions in 2009 of 75 million primarily represents the negative impact of changes in persistency assumptions of 53 million, reflecting an increase in the assumed utilisation of the partial withdrawal option on Variable and Fixed Annuity business of 29 million and 24 million for the effect of other altered lapse rates, in line with experience.
6 The spread assumption for Jackson is determined on a longer-term basis, net of provision for defaults.
The charge of 3 million for spread experience variance in 2009 is better assessed in the context of both spread and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses.
Amortisation of interest-related gains and losses reflects the same treatment applied to the supplementary analysis of IFRS profit.
When bonds that are neither impaired nor deteriorating are sold and reinvested there will be a consequent change in the investment yield.
To reflect better the longer-term returns on operating profits the realised gain or loss is amortised into the result over the period when the bonds would have otherwise matured.
The net effect on the EEV results of these two items is a credit of 56 million for 2009 and 82 million for 2008.
7 The credit of 68 million for other items for 2009 primarily represents favourable expense experience variance of 40 million relating to marketing expenses and positive mortality experience of 32 million primarily relating to life products.
vi UK insurance operations 2009 2008 m m Unwind of discount and other expected returns 588 569 Other items: note Effect of asset rebalancing 22 118 Release of certain annuity business reserves 56 Other 30 21 52 195 640 764 Note For UK annuity business, the effects of rebalancing the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders are normally reflected in full in the operating result for the year.
These effects arise from the altered value arising from the revised projected yield and allowances for default risk.
During 2007 and 2008, exceptional credit spread widening took place.
Accordingly in 2008, to better reflect performance reporting, the effect of asset rebalancing reflected in the operating result was determined by reference to investment conditions at 31 December 2006.
The excess effect of asset rebalancing was included in non-operating results, as described in note 6.
317 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 4 Discontinued operations The charge of 14 million, which is net of nil tax, reflects completion adjustments for a previously disposed business.
5 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 2009 m 2008 m Insurance operations: note i Asia 437 903 note ii US 401 1,344 note iii UK 445 2,407 Other operations: note iv IGD hedge costs 235 note v Other 105 313 Total 351 4,967 Notes i Asian operations 2009 2008 m m Singapore 159 310 Hong Kong 113 284 Vietnam 47 82 Other operations 212 227 437 903 The short-term fluctuations in investment returns in Asia for 2009 of 437 million reflect the effect of strong equity market performance in particular for participating business and unit-linked business where the in-force value benefits from increases in shareholder transfers and from the capitalisation of increased projected fees due to the higher asset base at the end of the year.
For 2008, the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for Asian operations of 903 million arose primarily in Singapore and Hong Kong, reflecting the effect of substantial equity market falls on unit-linked and with-profits business.
For unit-linked business, the short-term fluctuation in investment returns reflects the reduction in the value of the asset base and the consequent effect on the projection of future management fees.
For with-profits business, the short-term fluctuation in investment returns reflects the difference between the shareholders 10 per cent interest in the value movements on the assets and the unwind of discount on the opening shareholders interest in the surplus.
ii US operations The fluctuations for US operations comprise the following items: 2009 2008 m m Actual realised losses less default assumption and amortisation of interest-related gains and losses 1 for fixed income securities and related swap transactions 367 463 2 Actual less long-term return on equity based investments and other items 144 148 Investment return related gain loss due primarily to changed expectation of profits on in-force variable annuity business in future periods based on current period equity returns, 33 net of related hedging activity for equity related products 110 733 Total Jackson 401 1,344 Notes 1 The charge of 367 million in 2009 relating to fixed income securities primarily represents the excess of the impairment losses in the year on the US statutory basis over the amortisation of interest-related gains and longer-term default assumption included within operating profit.
2 The charge in 2009 of 144 million for actual less long-term return on equity based investments and other items primarily relates to the shortfall of actual return against the expected return on investments in limited partnerships.
3 This gain loss arises due to the market returns being higher lower than the assumed longer-term rate of return.
This gives rise to higher lower than expected year end values of variable annuity assets under management with a resulting effect on the projected value of future account values and hence future profitability from altered fees.
For 2009, the US equity market returns were approximately positive 24 per cent compared to the assumed longer-term rate of return of 7.4 per cent.
For 2008, the US equity market returns were approximately negative 38.5 per cent compared to the assumed longer-term rate of return of 5.8 per cent.
318 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV iii UK insurance operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for UK insurance operations for 2009 represents: 2009 2008 m m 1 With-profits 430 2,083 2 Shareholder-backed annuity 40 213 3 Unit-linked and other 55 111 445 2,407 Notes 1 For with-profits business the credit for 2009 of 430 million 2008: charge of 2,083 million reflects the positive variance of 8.6 per cent 2008: negative 25.3 per cent against the assumed long-term return for the investments covering policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus.
2 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed annuity business for 2009 of 40 million primarily represents mismatching losses arising from a fall in yields on assets of 105 million, partially offset by better than expected default experience of 22 million.
The remaining balance of 43 million consists of positive movements in other asset values partially offset by losses on surplus assets relative to the expected return.
The charge for 2008 of 213 million primarily represented an unrealised loss on surplus assets and default experience.
3 The credit of 55 million relates primarily to unit-linked business representing the increase in capitalised value of future fees arising from the positive movements in market values experienced during the year.
iv IGD hedge costs During the severe equity market conditions experienced in the first quarter of 2009, coupled with historically high equity volatility, the Group entered into exceptional short-dated hedging contracts to protect against potential tail-events on the IGD capital position, in addition to our regular operational hedging programmes.
The hedge contracts have expired and have not been renewed.
v Other operations Short-term fluctuations in investment returns of Other operations, in addition to the previously discussed IGD hedge costs, arise from: 2009 2008 m m Sale of investment in India mutual fund in May 2008 giving rise to a transfer to operating profit of 47m for the crystallised gain, and value reduction in the year, prior to sale, of 24m 71 Unrealised value movements on swaps held centrally to manage Group assets and liabilities 28 38 Unrealised value movements on Prudential Capital bond portfolio 66 190 Unrealised value movements on investments held by Other operations 11 14 105 313 6 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees The effects of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees resulting from changes in economic factors for in-force business included within the profit loss from continuing operations before tax including actual investment returns arise as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Change in Change in time value time value Change in of cost of Change in of cost of economic options and economic options and assumptions guarantees Total assumptions guarantees Total note i Asian operations 165 9 174 157 157 note ii US operations 528 10 518 267 11 278 notes iii, iv UK insurance operations 270 52 218 783 50 833 Total 963 53 910 359 39 398 Notes i The effect of changes in economic assumptions in Asia for 2009 of a charge of 165 million primarily reflects increases in risk discount rates and fund earned rates as shown in note 16b, with the largest impact arising for Hong Kong US dollar denominated business arising from the increase in US dollar government bond yields.
The 165 million charge is net of a credit of 96 million for the effect of altered economic assumptions for Indonesia and Korea arising from a change in the application of the Groups methodology for these operations as discussed in note 16b.
The effect of changes in economic assumptions in Asia for 2008 of a credit of 157 million reflects the impact of the reduction in risk discount rates across most territories.
319 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 6 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees continued ii The charge of 528 million for the effect of changes in economic assumptions for US operations for 2009 reflects the following: 2009 2008 m m note Effect of changes in 10-year treasury rates, beta and equity risk premium: Fixed annuity and other general account business 410 385 Variable Annuity VA business 183 118 note Increase in risk margin allowance for credit risk 301 528 267 Note For Jackson, the charge for the effect of changes in economic assumptions represents the aggregate of the effects of changes to projected returns and the risk discount rate.
The risk discount rate, as discussed in note 1b iii, represents the aggregate of the risk-free rate and margin for market risk, credit risk and non-diversifiable non-market risk.
For fixed annuity and other general account business the effect of changes to the risk-free rate, which is defined as the 10-year treasury rate, is reflected in the risk discount rate.
This discount rate is in turn applied to projected cash flows which principally reflect projected spread, which is largely insensitive to changes in the risk-free rate.
For 2009, the effect of these changes resulted in an overall charge for fixed annuity and other general account business of 410 million, reflecting the increase in the risk-free rate of 1.6 per cent as shown in note 16b.
For 2008, the effect of the change in economic assumptions on this business was a credit of 385 million, which reflects the decrease in the risk-free rate of 1.8 per cent.
For VA business, changes to the risk-free rate are also reflected in determining the risk discount rate.
However, the projected cash flows are also reassessed for altered investment returns on the underlying separate account assets from which fees are charged.
For 2009, the effect of both of these changes resulted in an overall credit on VA business of 183 million, reflecting the increase in the risk-free rate of 1.6 per cent as shown in note 16b.
For 2008, the effect of the change in economic assumptions on VA business of a charge of 118 million reflects the decrease in the risk-free rate of 1.8 per cent.
In 2009, the Group has included an additional allowance for credit risk.
In determining this allowance a number of factors were considered.
These factors, in particular, include: a How much of the credit spread on debt securities represents an increased credit risk not reflected in the RMR long-term default assumptions, and how much is liquidity premium.
In assessing this effect consideration has been given to a number of approaches to estimating the liquidity premium by considering statistical data over the four years from 2006 to 2009, and b Policyholder benefits for Jackson fixed annuity business are not fixed.
It is possible in adverse economic scenarios to pass on a component of credit loss to policyholders subject to guarantee features through lower crediting rates.
Consequently, it is only necessary to allow for the balance of the credit risk in the risk discount rate.
After taking these and other more detailed factors into account and, based on market conditions in late 2009, the risk discount rate for spread business has been increased by 150 basis points as an additional allowance for credit risk.
For VA business, the additional allowance increase has been set at 20 per cent of the non-VA business increase to reflect the fact that a proportion of the VA business is allocated to general account holdings of debt securities.
The additional allowance to be applied in future reporting periods will be altered, as necessary, for future credit conditions and as the business in force alters over time.
Accordingly, a simple formulaic approach for the future allowance is not possible and does not apply.
However, as a guide the current allowance can be summarised as broadly reflecting that 50 per cent of the increase in credit spread since 31 December 2006 can be attributed to credit risk and 50 per cent to liquidity premium, and that management actions can be used to absorb some 50 basis points of credit losses without adversely impacting value.
iii The effect of changes in economic assumptions of a charge of 270 million for UK insurance operations comprises the effect of: 2009 m 2008 m  profits backed profits annuity and other annuity and other business business business business note 1 note 2 Total note 1 note 2 Total Decrease increase in expected long-term rates of return 284 191 93 83 1,082 999 Decrease increase in risk discount rates 240 311 71 394 668 274 Other changes 25 131 106 6 52 58 19 251 270 317 466 783 Notes 1 In 2008, the 317 million charge comprises 400 million for the effect of strengthening credit risk assumptions, offset by a credit of 231 million for the effect of rebalancing the asset portfolio calculated by reference to the exceptional changes in credit spreads from 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2008, and an underlying charge of 148 million for regular changes in yields and discount rates.
In 2009, the charge of 19 million reflects the effects of regular economic assumption changes.
However, the amounts for the component line items shown above reflect a change in the composition of the default allowance between best estimate levels which are reflected in the long-term rates of return and allowance for credit risk premium and additional short-term defaults reflected in the risk discount rate.
2 In 2009, the charge of 251 million for with-profits and other business reflects the fact that the risk discount rate has increased significantly more than the earned rate as a result of the revised correlation assumptions, lower equity backing ratio and very low cash return.
In 2008, the charge of 466 million for the effects of the decrease in expected long-term rates of return and risk discount rates primarily reflect the reduction in gilt rates of 0.85 per cent.
iv The effect of changes in time value of cost of options and guarantees of a credit of 52 million for UK insurance operations primarily relates to withprofits business reflecting the effect of the improved investment return achieved in 2009, combined with an overall beneficial impact arising from changes in economic assumptions.
In 2008, the charge of 50 million primarily related to with-profits business reflecting the effect of the reduction in the expected long-term rates of return as described in note 2 above.
320 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV 7 Shareholders funds segmental analysis 2009 m 2008 m Asian operations Long-term business: Net assets of operations EEV basis shareholders funds 5,781 5,264 Acquired goodwill 80 111 5,861 5,375 note i Asset management: Net assets of operations 161 167 Acquired goodwill 61 61 222 228 6,083 5,603 US operations Jackson EEV basis shareholders funds net of surplus note borrowings of 158m 2008: 154m 4,122 4,339 note i Broker-dealer and asset management operations: Net assets of operations 95 98 Acquired goodwill 16 16 111 114 4,233 4,453 UK operations Insurance operations: Long-term business operations: Smoothed shareholders funds 5,547 5,437 Actual shareholders funds less smoothed shareholders funds 108 518 EEV basis shareholders funds 5,439 4,919 Other 37 5,476 4,919 note i M&G: Net assets of operations 173 147 Acquired goodwill 1,153 1,153 1,326 1,300 6,802 6,219 Other operations 9 Holding company net borrowings at market value 1,780 818 note i Other net liabilities 65 501 1,845 1,319 Total 15,273 14,956 Representing: 2009 m 2008 m Statutory Additional Statutory Additional IFRS basis retained EEV basis IFRS basis retained EEV basis shareprofit on shareshare profit on shareholders an EEV holders holders an EEV holders assumptions basis Total assumptions basis Total Asian operations 1,462 4,399 5,861 2,167 3,208 5,375 US operations 3,011 1,111 4,122 1,698 2,641 4,339 UK insurance operations 1,902 3,537 5,439 1,655 3,264 4,919 Total long-term business operations 6,375 9,047 15,422 5,520 9,113 14,633 note ii Other operations 104 45 149 462 785 323 Group total 6,271 9,002 15,273 5,058 9,898 14,956 321 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 7 Shareholders funds segmental analysis continued Notes i With the exception of the share of the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS deficit attributable to the PAC with-profits fund, which is included in Other operations net liabilities, these amounts have been determined on the statutory IFRS basis.
The overall pension scheme deficit, net of tax, attributable to shareholders relating to PSPS is determined as shown below: 2009 2008 m m IFRS basis deficit relating to shareholder-backed operations 16 31 Additional EEV deficit relating to shareholders 10 per cent share of the IFRS basis deficit attributable to the PAC with-profits fund 5 6 EEV basis 21 37 For 2008, the EEV basis deficit of 37 million for other operations includes the shareholders share of the deficit on the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme, which for 2009 is included within the shareholders funds of UK long-term business operations.
ii The additional retained profit on an EEV basis for Other operations represents the mark to market value difference on holding company net borrowings of a charge of 26 million 2008: credit of 802 million and the effect of accounting for pension costs for the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme.
8 Analysis of movement in free surplus Free surplus is the market value of the net worth in excess of the capital required to support the covered business.
Where appropriate, adjustments are made to the regulatory basis net worth from the local regulatory basis so as to include backing assets movements at fair value rather than cost so as to comply with the EEV principles.
Prudential has based required capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements, as described in note 1b ii.
2009 m Asset Free surplus of management long-term and UK business, asset general management Long-term insurance and UK general business commission insurance note i Long-term business and asset management operations note 13 note ii commission Underlying movement: New business 675 675 Business in force: Expected in-force cash flows including expected return on net assets 1,657 257 1,914 Effects of changes in operating assumptions, operating experience variances and other operating items 175 175 1,157 257 1,414 note iii Changes in non-operating items 239 41 198 Profit on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 987 987 1,905 298 2,203 note iv Net cash flows to parent company 506 182 688 note v Exchange movements, timing differences and other items 219 62 157 Net movement in free surplus 1,618 54 1,672 Balance at 1 January 2009 447 412 859 Balance at 31 December 2009 2,065 466 2,531 Representing: 13 Asian operations 801 161 962 13 US operations 749 95 844 13 UK insurance operations 515 210 725 2,065 466 2,531 1 January 2009 Representing: 13 Asian operations 240 167 73 13 US operations 501 98 599 13 UK insurance operations 186 147 333 447 412 859 322 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV Notes i All figures are shown net of tax.
ii For the purposes of this analysis, free surplus for asset management operations and the UK general insurance commission is taken to be IFRS basis shareholders funds as shown in note 7. iii Changes in non-operating items.
This represents short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes and the effect of changes in economic assumptions for long-term business operations.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns primarily reflect temporary market movements on the portfolio of investments held by the Groups shareholder-backed operations together with the shareholders 10 per cent interest in the value movements on the assets in the with-profits funds.
The effect of changes in economic assumptions on free surplus includes the impact of an increase in required capital for Jackson of 168 million driven by impairments and credit downgrades.
Separately, short-term fluctuations in investment returns include the effect of impairments and credit downgrades in excess of the expected longer-term level reflected within operating profit.
iv Net cash flows to parent company reflect the flows for long-term business operations as included in the holding company cash flow at transaction rates.
v Exchange movements, timing differences and other items represent: Asset management and UK general Long-term insurance businesscommission Total m m m Exchange movements 75 30 105 13 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 133 133 Other 161 32 129 219 62 157 9 Holding Company net borrowings a Balance sheet 2009 m 2008 m Mark to Mark to market market value EEV basis value EEV basis adjustment at market adjustment at market IFRS basis note b value IFRS basis note b value Holding company cash and short-term investments 1,486 1,486 1,165 1,165 note Core structural borrowings central funds 3,240 26 3,266 2,785 802 1,983 Holding company net borrowings 1,754 26 1,780 1,620 802 818 Core structural borrowings Jackson 154 4 158 173 19 154 1,908 30 1,938 1,793 821 972 Including central finance subsidiaries.
Note EEV basis holding company borrowings comprise: 2009 2008 m m Perpetual subordinated capital securities Innovative Tier 1 1,351 513 Subordinated debt Lower Tier 2 1,372 737 Senior debt 543 733 3,266 1,983 In May 2009, the Company repaid maturing 249 million senior debt and in the same month the Company issued 400 million subordinated notes in part to replace the maturing debt.
In July 2009, the Company issued US$750 million perpetual subordinated capital securities.
In accordance with the EEV Principles, core borrowings are carried at market value.
As the liabilities are generally held to maturity or for the long-term, no deferred tax asset or liability has been established on the market value adjustment above.
b Results and movements in equity 2009 m 2008 m Loss profit included in consolidated income statement 795 656 Foreign exchange effects 56 181 1 January 2009 821 16 31 December 2009 30 821 The loss profit recorded in the consolidated income statement represents a charge of 774 million 2008: credit of 619 million in respect of central funds and a charge of 21 million 2008: credit of 37 million in respect of Jackson.
323 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 10 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds 2009 m Long-term business operations Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business Other Group operations operations operations operations operations Total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Long-term business: 2 New business 713 664 230 1,607 1,607 3 Business in force 392 569 640 1,601 1,601 1,105 1,233 870 3,208 3,208 Asia development expenses 6 6 6 UK general insurance commission 51 51 M&G 238 238 Asian asset management operations 55 55 US broker-dealer and asset management 44 Other income and expenditure 433 433 Restructuring costs 20 20 7 27 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,099 1,233 850 3,182 92 3,090 5 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 437 401 445 481 130 351 9 Mark to market value movements on core borrowings 21 21 774 795 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 52 52 32 84 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of 6 cost of options and guarantees 174 518 218 910 910 18 Profit on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 148 148 57 91 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax including actual investment returns 1,510 293 1,025 2,828 1,085 1,743 11 Tax charge credit attributable to shareholders profit loss : Tax on operating profit 239 416 245 900 34 866 Tax on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 76 165 124 35 61 26 Tax on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 14 14 9 23 Tax on effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 94 181 61 336 336 Total tax charge credit 221 70 294 585 104 481 4 Discontinued operations net of tax 14 14 Minority interests 3 3 Profit loss for the year 1,289 223 731 2,243 998 1,245 Exchange movements on foreign operations and note i net investment hedges 435 483 918 157 761 Related tax 11 11 Intra group dividends including statutory transfer 553 39 206 798 798 External dividends 481 481 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 29 29 note ii Investment in operations 219 27 246 246 note iv Other transfers 3 51 32 86 86 Movement in own shares held in respect of share-based payment plans 33 Movement in Prudential plc shares purchased by unit trusts consolidated under IFRS 3 3 New share capital subscribed 141 141 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus 13 and required capital net of related tax of 72m 133 133 133 Net increase decrease in shareholders equity 517 217 520 820 503 317 note iii, 7 Shareholders equity at 1 January 2009 5,264 4,339 4,919 14,522 434 14,956 note iii, 7 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 5,781 4,122 5,439 15,342 69 15,273 324 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV Notes i Profits are translated at average exchange rates, consistent with the method applied for statutory IFRS basis results.
The amounts recorded above for exchange rate movements reflect the difference between 2009 and 2008 exchange rates as applied to shareholders funds at 1 January 2009 and the difference between 31 December 2009 and average 2009 rates for profits.
ii Investment in operations reflects increases in share capital.
This includes certain non-cash items.
iii For the purposes of the table above, goodwill related to Asia long-term operations as shown in note 7 is included in Other operations.
iv Other transfers from to long-term business operations to Other operations in 2009 represent: Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations m m m m Adjustment for net of tax asset management projected profits of covered business 7 3 17 27 Other adjustments 4 48 15 59 3 51 32 86 11 Tax attributable to shareholders profit loss The tax charge credit comprises: 2009 m 2008 m Tax charge on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: note i Long-term business: note ii Asian operations 239 322 US operations 416 205 note ii UK insurance operations 245 269 900 796 Other operations 34 38 Total tax charge on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 866 758 Tax credit on items not included in operating profit: Tax credit on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 26 1,432 Tax credit on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 23 2 Tax credit on effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 336 79 Tax credit on profit on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 16 Total tax credit on items not included in operating profit 385 1,529 Tax charge credit on profit loss on ordinary activities from continuing operations including tax on actual investment returns 481 771 Notes i The profit for the year for covered business is in most cases calculated initially at the post-tax level.
The post-tax profit for covered business is then grossed up for presentation purposes at the effective rates of tax applicable to the countries and periods concerned.
In the UK, the effective rate is the UK corporation tax rate of 28 per cent which took effect from 1 April 2008.
For Jackson, the US federal tax rate of 35 per cent is applied to gross up movements on the value of in-force business.
Effects on statutory tax for the period affect the overall tax rate.
For Asia, similar principles apply subject to the availability of taxable profits.
ii Including tax relief on Asia development expenses and restructuring costs borne by UK insurance operations.
325 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 12 Earnings per share EPS 2009 m 2008 m Operating EPS: Operating profit before tax 3,090 2,865 Tax 866 758 Minority interests 3 4 Operating profit after tax and minority interests 2,221 2,103 Operating EPS pence 88.8p 85.1p Total EPS: Profit loss from continuing operations before tax 1,743 2,106 Tax 481 771 Discontinued operations net of tax 14 Minority interests 3 3 Total profit loss after tax and minority interests 1,245 1,338 Total EPS pence 49.8p 54.1 p Average number of shares millions 2,501 2,472 The average number of shares reflects the average number in issue adjusted for shares held by employee trusts and consolidated unit trusts and OEICs which are treated as cancelled.
326 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV note i 13 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force business 2009 m Value of Free in-force Total surplus Required Total net business long-term note 8 capital worth note iv business Group Shareholders equity at 1 January 2009 447 4,117 4,564 9,958 14,522 notes ii, iii New business contribution 675 451 224 1,355 1,131 Existing business transfer to net worth 1,551 434 1,117 1,117 Expected return on existing business 106 100 206 856 1,062 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 175 50 225 136 89 Profit on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 987 1,232 245 393 148 Increase in capital requirements for US operations arising from impairments and credit downgrades 168 168 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 71 42 29 158 187 Profit after tax and minority interests from long-term business 1,905 855 1,050 1,193 2,243 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 75 268 343 575 918 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and note v investment in operations 259 259 293 552 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 133 133 133 Other transfers from net worth 86 86 86 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 2,065 2,994 5,059 10,283 15,342 Representing: Asian operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2009 240 1,789 1,549 3,715 5,264 notes ii, iii New business contribution 246 69 177 710 533 Existing business transfer to net worth 377 5 382 382 Expected return on existing business 86 5 91 322 413 note vi Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 98 85 13 73 86 Profit on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 987 1,232 245 393 148 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 101 26 75 206 281 Profit after tax and minority interests from long-term business 1,207 1,094 113 1,176 1,289 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 12 110 122 313 435 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and note v investment in operations 151 151 183 334 Other transfers from net worth 3 3 3 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 801 585 1,386 4,395 5,781 327 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued note i 13 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force business continued 2009 m Value of Free in-force Total surplus Required Total net business long-term note 8 capital worth note iv business US operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2009 501 1,400 1,901 2,438 4,339 notes ii, iii New business contribution 326 300 26 458 432 Existing business transfer to net worth 706 359 347 347 Expected return on existing business 18 55 73 151 224 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 115 12 103 58 161 Increase in capital requirements for US operations arising from impairments and credit downgrades 168 168 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 77 11 66 528 594 Profit after tax and minority interests from long-term business 268 163 431 208 223 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 63 158 221 262 483 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and investment in operations 39 39 39 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 133 133 133 Other transfers from net worth 51 51 51 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 749 1,405 2,154 1,968 4,122 UK insurance operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2009 186 928 1,114 3,805 4,919 notes ii, iii New business contribution 103 82 21 187 166 Existing business transfer to net worth 468 80 388 388 Expected return on existing business 2 40 42 383 425 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 158 23 135 121 14 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 95 57 38 164 126 Profit after tax and minority interests from long-term business 430 76 506 225 731 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and note v investment in operations 69 69 110 179 Other transfers from net worth 32 32 32 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 515 1,004 1,519 3,920 5,439 Notes i All figures are shown net of tax.
ii The movements arising from new business contribution are as follows: 2009 m 2008 m Pre-tax new Pre-tax new business Post-tax new business Post-tax new contribution business contribution business note 2 Tax contribution note 2 Tax contribution Asian operations 713 180 533 634 166 468 US operations 664 232 432 293 103 190 UK insurance operations 230 64 166 273 76 197 1,607 476 1,131 1,200 345 855 328 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV 2009 2008 m m Free surplus 675 806 Required capital 451 472 Total net worth 224 334 Value of in-force business 1,355 1,189 Total long-term business 1,131 855 iii New business capital usage 2009 m 2008 m Post-tax new Post-tax new business business Free surplus Post-tax new contribution Free surplus Post-tax new contribution invested business per 1m free invested business per 1m free in new contribution surplus in new contribution surplus business note ii invested business note ii invested Asian operations 246 533 2.2 224 468 2.1 US operations 326 432 1.3 289 190 0.7 UK insurance operations 103 166 1.6 293 197 0.7 675 1,131 1.7 806 855 1.1 iv The value of in-force business includes the value of future margins from current in-force business less the cost of holding encumbered capital and represents: 2009 m 2008 m Value of Value of in-force in-force business business before before deduction deduction of cost Cost of Net of cost Cost of Net of capital time value of of capital time value of and of Cost value of in-force and of Cost value of in-force guarantees of capital guarantees business guarantees of capital guarantees business note vii Asian operations 4,605 198 12 4,395 4,590 869 6 3,715 US operations 2,351 175 208 1,968 2,838 18 382 2,438 UK insurance operations 4,181 221 40 3,920 4,263 372 86 3,805 11,137 594 260 10,283 11,691 1,259 474 9,958 v The amounts shown in respect of free surplus and the value of in-force business for UK and Asian operations for intragroup dividends and investment in operations include the impact of contingent loan funding.
vi For Asian operations, the effect of changes in operating assumptions and experience variances in 2009 includes the impact of changes in the assumed capital requirement to better align with internal management and pricing bases.
This primarily arises in China, Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam, with a consequent reduction in free surplus and increase in required capital of 73 million.
vii The change in the cost of capital for Asian operations from 869 million in 2008 to 198 million in 2009 primarily reflects the effect of the disposal of the Taiwan agency business.
14 Expected transfer of value of in-force business to free surplus The discounted value of in-force business and required capital can be reconciled to the analysis of free surplus crystallisation as follows: 2009 m 2008 m 13 Required capital 2,994 4,117 13 Value of in force VIF 10,283 9,958 13 Add back: deduction for cost of time value of guarantees 260 474 note Other items 865 181 12,672 14,368 Note Other items includes the deduction of the value of the shareholders interest in the estate, the value of which is derived by increasing final bonus rates so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
This is an assumption to give an appropriate valuation.
To be conservative this item is excluded from the expected free surplus generation profile below.
Also included in Other items are amounts which are deducted in full against VIF, as they represent the Groups best estimate of amounts that will be paid in the future, but for which there is no definitive timeframe for when the payments will actually be made.
329 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 14 Expected transfer of value of in-force business to free surplus continued Cash flows are projected on a deterministic basis and are discounted at the appropriate risk discount rate.
The modelled cash flows use the same methodology underpinning the Groups embedded value reporting and so is subject to the same assumptions and sensitivities.
The table below shows how the VIF generated by the in-force business and the associated required capital is modelled as emerging into free surplus over future years.
2009 m Expected period of conversion of future post tax distributable earnings and required capital flows to free surplus 2009 Total as shown above 1-5 years 6-10 years 11-15 years 16-20 years 20 years Asian operations 4,911 1,716 1,121 687 455 932 US operations 3,739 2,129 980 364 153 113 UK insurance operations 4,022 1,591 1,035 653 401 342 Total 12,672 5,436 3,136 1,704 1,009 1,387 100% 43% 25% 13% 8% 11% 2008 m Expected period of conversion of future post tax distributable earnings and required capital flows to free surplus 2008 Total as shown above 1-5 years 6-10 years 11-15 years 16-20 years 20 years Asian operations 5,373 1,746 1,150 859 564 1,054 US operations 4,374 2,415 1,167 460 180 152 UK insurance operations 4,621 2,297 975 600 389 360 Total 14,368 6,458 3,292 1,919 1,133 1,566 100% 45% 23% 13% 8% 11% 15 Sensitivity of results to alternative assumptions a Sensitivity analysis economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 and the new business contribution after the effect of encumbered capital for 2009 and 2008 to: one per cent increase in the discount rates: one per cent increase and decrease in interest rates, including all consequential changes assumed investment returns for all asset classes, market values of fixed interest assets, risk discount rates : one per cent rise in equity and property yields: 10 per cent fall in market value of equity and property assets not applicable for new business contribution : holding company statutory minimum capital by contrast to economic capital : five basis point increase in long-term expected defaults: and 10 basis point increase in the liquidity premium for UK shareholder-backed annuities 2009 only.
In each sensitivity calculation, all other assumptions remain unchanged except where they are directly affected by the revised economic conditions.
330 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV 2009 m Asian operations excluding Total sold Taiwan UK long-term agency US insurance business business operations operations operations New business profit for 2009 2 As reported 713 664 230 1,607 Discount rates 1% increase 91 48 43 182 Interest rates 1% increase 3 8 7 2 Interest rates 1% decrease 3 12 8 1 Equity property yields 1% rise 31 39 11 81 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 9 9 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 18 18 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2009 10 As reported 5,781 4,122 5,439 15,342 Discount rates 1% increase 522 146 401 1,069 Interest rates 1% increase 183 137 231 551 Interest rates 1% decrease 231 55 298 584 Equity property yields 1% rise 255 82 213 550 Equity property market values 10% fall 147 10 298 455 Statutory minimum capital 28 123 6 157 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 76 76 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 152 152 2008 m Asian Total operations long-term excluding Total business sold Taiwan UK long-term Taiwan operations agency US insurance business agency as previously business operations operations operations business published New business profit for 2008 2 As reported 634 293 273 1,200 107 1,307 Discount rates 1% increase 74 25 52 151 14 165 Interest rates 1% increase 19 21 5 3 1 4 Interest rates 1% decrease 23 47 6 18 18 Equity property yields 1% rise 26 28 15 69 4 73 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2008 10 As reported 5,487 4,339 4,919 14,745 223 14,522 Discount rates 1% increase 454 170 361 985 110 1,095 Interest rates 1% increase 126 123 98 347 126 221 Interest rates 1% decrease 146 19 121 286 182 104 Equity property yields 1% rise 240 114 276 630 54 684 Equity property market values 10% fall 94 117 381 592 35 627 Statutory minimum capital 1 11 5 17 512 529 b Sensitivity analysis non-economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 and the new business contribution after the effect of encumbered capital for 2009 and 2008 to: 10 per cent proportionate decrease in maintenance expenses a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of 10 per annum would represent an expense assumption of 9 per annum : 10 per cent proportionate decrease in lapse rates a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of five per cent would represent a lapse rate of 4.5 per cent per annum : and five per cent proportionate decrease in base mortality and morbidity rates i. e. increased longevity.
331 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 15 Sensitivity of results to alternative assumptions continued 2009 m Asian operations excluding Total sold Taiwan UK long-term agency US insurance business business operations operations operations New business profit for 2009 2 As reported 713 664 230 1,607 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 19 9 8 36 Lapse rates 10% decrease 56 34 11 101 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 37 7 11 33 Change representing effect on: Life business 37 7 1 45 UK annuities 12 12 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2009 10 As reported 5,781 4,122 5,439 15,342 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 77 33 43 153 Lapse rates 10% decrease 232 141 70 443 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 169 78 157 90 Change representing effect on: Life business 169 78 11 258 UK annuities 168 168 2008 m Asian Total operations long-term excluding Total business sold Taiwan UK long-term Taiwan operations agency US insurance business agency as previously business operations operations operations business published New business profit for 2008 2 As reported 634 293 273 1,200 107 1,307 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 19 6 7 32 3 35 Lapse rates 10% decrease 53 23 11 87 9 96 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 23 6 20 9 4 13 Change representing effect on: Life business 23 6 29 4 33 UK annuities 20 20 20 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2008 10 As reported 5,487 4,339 4,919 14,745 223 14,522 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 74 45 36 155 18 173 Lapse rates 10% decrease 192 177 80 449 2 451 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 139 121 71 189 33 222 Change representing effect on: Life business 139 121 5 265 33 298 UK annuities 76 76 76 332 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV 16 Assumptions a Best estimate assumptions Best estimate assumptions are used for the cash flow projections, where best estimate is defined as the mean of the distribution of future possible outcomes.
The assumptions are reviewed actively and changes are made when evidence exists that material changes in future experience are reasonably certain.
Assumptions required in the calculation of the value of options and guarantees, for example relating to volatilities and correlations, or dynamic algorithms linking liabilities to assets, have been set equal to the best estimates and, wherever material and practical, reflect any dynamic relationships between the assumptions and the stochastic variables.
b Principal economic assumptions Deterministic assumptions In most countries, the long-term expected rates of return on investments and risk discount rates are set by reference to period end rates of return on cash or fixed interest securities.
For the Groups Asian operations, the active basis is appropriate for business written in Japan, Korea and US dollar denominated business written in Hong Kong.
Except in respect of the projected returns of holdings of Asian debt and equity securities for those countries where long-term fixed interest markets are less established, the active basis of assumption setting has been applied in preparing the results of all the Groups US and UK long-term business operations.
For countries where long-term fixed interest markets are less established, investment return assumptions and risk discount rates are based on an assessment of longer-term economic conditions.
Except for the countries listed above, this basis is appropriate for the Groups Asian operations.
Similarly, the projected returns on holdings of Asian securities in these territories by other Group businesses are set on the same basis.
Expected returns on equity and property asset classes in respect of each territory are derived by adding a risk premium, based on the long-term view of Prudentials economists, to the risk-free rate.
In Asia, equity risk premiums range from 3.0 per cent to 8.35 per cent 2008: 3.0 per cent to 7.0 per cent.
In the US and the UK, the equity risk premium is 4.0 per cent 2008: 4.0 per cent.
Assumed investment returns reflect the expected future returns on the assets held and allocated to the covered business at the valuation date.
The tables below summarise the principal financial assumptions: 31 Dec 2009 % 31 Dec 2008 % China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Korea China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Korea Asian operations note iv notes ii, iii note iv note iv notes ii, iii Risk discount rate: New business 11.75 5.5 14.25 13.8 5.1 8.2 11.75 3.8 14.25 15.25 4.8 8.2 In force 11.75 5.7 14.25 13.8 5.1 8.4 11.75 3.9 14.25 15.25 4.8 8.2 Expected long-term rate of inflation 4.0 2.25 5.0 6.0 0.0 2.75 4.0 2.25 5.0 6.0 0.7 2.75 Government bond yield 8.25 3.9 9.25 10.25 1.9 5.5 8.25 2.3 9.25 10.25 1.6 4.3 31 Dec 2009 % 31 Dec 2008 % Malaysia Philippines Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Malaysia Philippines Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Asian operations note iii note iv note iii note iv note iii note iii Risk discount rate: New business 9.4 15.75 5.7 7.5 13.0 16.75 9.1 15.75 6.15 9.1 13.0 16.75 In force 9.5 15.75 6.8 7.5 13.0 16.75 9.0 15.75 6.85 9.7 13.0 16.75 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.75 5.0 1.75 2.25 3.0 6.0 2.75 5.0 1.75 2.25 3.0 6.0 Government bond yield 6.5 9.25 4.25 5.5 6.75 10.25 6.5 9.25 4.25 5.5 6.75 10.25 333 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 16 Assumptions continued 31 Dec 2009 % 31 Dec 2008 % Asia total Asia total note i Weighted risk discount rate: New business excluding Taiwan agency business 9.1 8.7 In force excluding Taiwan agency business 8.8 8.0 In force including Taiwan agency business N A 7.8 Notes i The weighted risk discount rates for Asian operations shown above have been determined by weighting each countrys risk discount rates by reference to the EEV basis new business result and the closing value of in-force business.
ii The assumptions shown are for US dollar denominated business which comprises the largest proportion of the in-force Hong Kong business.
iii The mean equity return assumptions for the most significant equity holdings in the Asian operations were: 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 %% Hong Kong 7.9 6.2 Malaysia 12.4 12.5 Singapore 10.2 10.2 To obtain the mean, an average over all simulations of the accumulated return at the end of the projection period is calculated.
The annual average return is then calculated by taking the root of the average accumulated return minus 1. iv In 2009, the Group reconsidered the application of the Groups methodology for certain less established operations, with a consequent change in the risk discount rates used for Indonesia and Korea and a change in the assumed capital requirement to better align with internal management and pricing bases, primarily in China, Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam.
The change in the risk discount rate for Indonesia from 2008 to 2009 reflects a more granular assessment of the risks when determining the beta.
US operations Jackson 31 Dec 2009 % 31 Dec 2008 % note iii Assumed spread margins: note i New business Assumed long-term spread between earned rate and rate credited to policyholders see note i below note i for new tranches of Fixed Annuity business 1.75 In force 1.75 1.75 note ii Risk discount rate: New business 7.8 4.6 In force 7.2 3.9 US 10-year treasury bond rate at end of period 3.9 2.3 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for US equities 7.9 6.3 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.4 1.5 Notes i The expected spread for new tranches in 2009 of fixed annuity business including the proportion of variable annuity new business invested in the general account and fixed index annuity business are as follows: Fixed Annuity business Fixed Index First Long-term Annuity 5 years assumption business Assumed spread on new business %%% First six months of 2009 2.75 2.0 3.5 Second six months of 2009 2.25 2.0 2.5 2008 n a 1.75 2.2 Including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account.
For new tranches of business in 2009, the expected spread is assumed to grade back to the long-term assumption over the next 10 years.
The increases in the spread assumptions are due primarily to the exceptional combined benefit of high investment yields with a net annualised yield on new assets of 6.4 per cent during 2009 and lower crediting rates.
These revised assumptions include a provision that crediting rates and spreads will normalise in the future.
Thus, the assumption for new business spreads shown above for fixed annuities and the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account is set at the higher new level for the first five years before reducing over the following 10 years.
As before, the valuation of new business takes into account an assumed associated risk of increased lapse under certain interest rate scenarios.
ii The risk discount rates at 31 December 2009 for new business and business in force for US operations reflect weighted rates based on underlying rates of 8.2 per cent 2008: 6.2 per cent for Variable Annuity VA business and 6.2 per cent 2008: 3.0 per cent for other business.
The increase in the weighted discount rates reflects the increase in the US 10 year treasury bond rate of 160 bps, the additional credit risk allowance of 30 bps for VA business and 150 bps for other business, as explained in notes 1b iii and 6, and a change in the product mix reflecting the increased proportion of VA business.
334 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV iii Credit risk treatment The projected cash flows incorporate the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
The projected earned rates reflect book value yields which are adjusted over time to reflect projected reinvestment rates.
Positive net cash flows are assumed to be reinvested in a mix of corporate bonds, commercial mortgages and limited partnerships.
The yield on those assets is assumed to grade from the current level to a yield that allows for a long-term assumed credit spread of 1.25 per cent over 10 years.
The expected spread for 2009 has been determined after allowing for a Risk Margin Reserve RMR allowance of 28 basis points for longer-term defaults as described in note 1b iii.
The RMR of 28 bps represents the allowance, as at 31 December 2009, applied in the cash flow projections of the value of the in-force business.
In the event that longer-term default levels are higher then, unlike for UK annuity business where policyholder benefits are not changeable, Jackson has some discretion to adjust crediting rates, subject to contract guarantee levels and general market competition considerations.
The results for Jackson reflect the application of the discount rates shown above, which for 2009 reflect the inclusion of an additional allowance for a combination of credit risk premium and short-term default allowance as described in note 1b iii and note 6.
In the event that US 10-year treasury rates increase, the altered embedded value results would reflect a lower contribution from fixed annuity business and a partially offsetting increase for variable annuity business as the projected earned rate, as well as the discount rate, would increase for this type of business.
At 31 December 2008, the book value yields, net of RMR allowance, were in excess of the risk discount rate.
To correct for the anomalous effect that would otherwise occur no credit was taken in the financial statements for full year 2008 for the cost of capital benefit that this feature would have given rise to for fixed annuity business.
As interest rates have subsequently risen such that the risk discount rate exceeds book value yield at 31 December 2009 no such adjustment is needed for the year.
note iv UK insurance operations 31 Dec 2009 % 31 Dec 2008 % Shareholder-backed annuity business: notes i, iv Risk discount rate: New business 8.7 9.6 In force 10.2 12.0 note iii Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for shareholder-backed annuity business: Fixed annuities 5.6 6.7 Inflation-linked annuities 5.8 5.8 Other business: notes ii, iv Risk discount rate: New business 7.7 6.7 In force 7.4 6.75 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return: UK equities 8.4 7.7 Overseas equities 7.9 to 10.3 6.3 to 10.25 Property 6.7 6.0 Gilts 4.4 3.7 note iv Corporate bonds 6.1 5.2 Expected long-term rate of inflation 3.7 3.0 Post-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for the PAC with-profits fund: Pension business where no tax applies 6.9 6.6 Life business 6.0 5.8 Notes i The risk discount rate applied to new shareholder-backed annuity business for 2009 has been determined after allowing for credit risk on the backing assets.
ii The risk discount rates for new business and business in force for UK insurance operations other than shareholder-backed annuities reflect weighted rates based on the type of business.
iii The pre-tax rates of return for shareholder-backed annuity business are based on the gross redemption yield on the backing assets net of a best estimate allowance for future defaults.
iv Credit spread treatment For with-profits business, the embedded value reflects the discounted value of future shareholder transfers.
These transfers are directly affected by the level of projected rates of return on investments, including debt securities.
For 2008, the Company considered that in light of the current market conditions, it would be appropriate to assume an unchanged level of default allowance and an unchanged discount rate methodology relative to those at 31 December 2007.
Under the revised methodology a similar approach is adopted for corporate bonds i. e. the assumed earned rate is defined as the risk-free rate plus an assessment of the long-term spread over gilts, net of best estimate defaults.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business, different dynamics apply both in terms of the nature of the business and the EEV methodology applied.
For this type of business the assets are generally held to maturity to match long duration liabilities.
It is therefore appropriate under EEV methodology to include a liquidity premium in the economic basis used.
The appropriate EEV risk discount rate is set in order to equate the EEV with a market consistent embedded value including liquidity premium.
The liquidity premium in the market consistent embedded value is derived from the yield on the assets held after deducting an appropriate allowance for credit risk.
The risk discount rate in EEV reflects the excess of the total allowance for credit risk over the best estimate default assumptions.
For Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, which has approximately 90 per cent of UK shareholder-backed annuity business, the allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2009 is made up of: a 20 bps for fixed annuities and 15 bps for inflation-linked annuities in respect of long-term expected defaults.
This is derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2004 uplifted by between 100 per cent B and 200 per cent AAA according to credit rating, to the asset portfolios.
335 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 16 Assumptions continued b 13 bps for fixed annuities and 10 bps for inflation-linked annuities in respect of long-term credit risk premium for the potential volatility in default levels.
This is derived by applying the 95th worst percentile from Moodys data from 1970 to 2004, to the asset portfolios.
c 41 bps for fixed annuities and 34 bps for inflation-linked annuities in respect of additional short-term credit risk, reflecting short-term credit rating downgrades and defaults in excess of the long-term assumptions.
At 31 December 2008, this was derived as 25 per cent of the increase in credit spreads over swaps that has occurred since 31 December 2006 based on a set of externally published indices weighted to reflect the asset mix.
During 2009, this element of the overall credit assumption has not been derived by reference to credit spreads: rather it has been reduced in order to offset the impact of actual downgrades during the period on the long-term assumptions in a and b above and increased to eliminate the positive experience variance that would otherwise have arisen from the small number of actual defaults that were experienced in the period.
In addition, the assumptions have been updated to reflect changes in the asset mix, arising particularly from the sale of subordinated financial debt and the addition of higher credit quality new business assets to the portfolio.
The credit assumptions used and the residual liquidity premium element of the bond spread over swap rates is as follows: 2009 2008 bps bps Bond spread over swap rates 175 323 Credit risk allowance Long-term expected defaults 19 15 Long-term credit risk premium 13 11 Short-term allowance for credit risk 39 54 Total credit risk allowance 71 80 Liquidity premium 104 243 The overall allowance for credit risk is prudent by comparison with historic rates of default and would be sufficient to withstand a wide range of extreme credit events over the expected lifetime of the annuity business.
Stochastic assumptions The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations described above.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations, such as the volatilities of asset returns, reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of longer-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details are given below of the key characteristics and calibrations of each model.
Asian operations The same asset return models as used in the UK, appropriately calibrated, have been used for the Asian operations as described for UK insurance operations below.
The principal asset classes are government and corporate bonds.
Equity holdings are much lower than in the UK whilst property holdings do not represent a significant investment asset.
The stochastic cost of guarantees is primarily only of significance for the Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore operations.
The mean stochastic returns are consistent with the mean deterministic returns for each country.
The expected volatility of equity returns for 2009 ranges from 18 per cent to 35 per cent 2008: 18 per cent to 30 per cent, and the volatility of government bond yields ranges from 1.3 per cent to 2.4 per cent 2008: 1.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent.
US operations Jackson Interest rates are projected using a log-normal generator calibrated to the market yield curve at the valuation date: Corporate bond returns are based on Treasury securities plus a spread that has been calibrated to current market conditions and varies by credit quality: and Variable annuity equity and bond returns have been stochastically generated using a log-normal model with parameters determined by reference to historical data.
The volatility of equity fund returns for both 2009 and 2008 ranges from 18.6 per cent to 28.1 per cent, depending on risk class, and the standard deviation of bond returns ranges from 1.4 per cent to 1.6 per cent 2008: 1.5 per cent to 1.6 per cent.
336 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EEV UK insurance operations Interest rates are projected using a two-factor model calibrated to the initial market yield curve: The risk premium on equity assets is assumed to follow a log-normal distribution: The corporate bond return is calculated as the return on a zero-coupon bond plus a spread.
The spread process is a mean reverting stochastic process: and Property returns are modelled in a similar fashion to corporate bonds, namely as the return on a riskless bond, plus a risk premium, plus a process representative of the change in residual values and the change in value of the call option on rents.
Mean returns have been derived as the annualised arithmetic average return across all simulations and durations.
For each projection year, standard deviations have been calculated by taking the square root of the annualised variance of the returns over all the simulations.
These have been averaged over all durations in the projection.
For equity and property, the standard deviations relate to the total return on these assets.
The standard deviations applied to 2009 and 2008 are as follows: 2009 % 2008 % Equities: UK 18.0 18.0 Overseas 18.0 16.0 Property 15.0 15.0 c Demographic assumptions Persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on an analysis of recent experience but also reflect expected future experience.
Where relevant, when calculating the time value of financial options and guarantees, policyholder withdrawal rates vary in line with the emerging investment conditions according to managements expectations.
d Expense assumptions Expense levels, including those of service companies that support the Groups long-term business operations, are based on internal expense analysis investigations and are appropriately allocated to acquisition of new business and renewal of in-force business.
Exceptional expenses are identified and reported separately.
It is Prudentials policy not to take credit for future cost reduction programmes until the savings have been delivered.
For Asian life operations, the expenses comprise costs borne directly and recharged costs from the Asia Regional Head Office, that are attributable to covered business.
The assumed future expenses for these operations also include projections of these future recharges.
Expenditure of the Regional Head Office that is not allocated to the covered business or asset management operations is charged as incurred.
These costs are primarily for corporate related activities.
Development expenses are also charged as incurred.
Corporate expenditure for Group Head Office, to the extent not allocated to the PAC with-profits fund, is charged to EEV basis results as incurred.
e Taxation and other legislation Current taxation and other legislation have been assumed to continue unaltered except where changes have been announced and the relevant legislation passed.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
Annual premiums and contribution equivalents are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
New business premiums reflect those premiums attaching to covered business, including premiums for contracts classified as investment products for IFRS basis reporting.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Department of Work and Pensions DWP rebate business is classified as single recurrent business.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
ii The table above includes new business for the Taiwan bank distribution operation.
New business of the Taiwan agency business, which was sold in June 2009 as explained in note 18 is excluded from the table.
iii The 2008 comparatives shown in the table are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
18 Sale of legacy agency book and agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance of Taiwan 2009 m 2008 m Profit on sale and results for Taiwan agency business 91 248 a 2009 On 20 February 2009, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell the assets and liabilities of its agency business and its agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company Ltd of Taiwan for the nominal sum of NT$1.
The economic transfer date for the purpose of determining the net assets transferred was 28 February 2009.
The sale was completed, following regulatory approval, on 19 June 2009.
The profit on sale and results for the period of ownership comprise: m Proceeds Net asset value attributable to equity holders of Company at 1 January 2009 and provision for restructuring costs 134 Goodwill written off 44 Estimate as announced on 20 February 2009 90 Plus: effect of completion and other adjustments 1 91 Representing: 10 Profit arising on sale and result for long-term business operations 148 Goodwill written off 44 Adjustments in respect of restructuring costs borne by non-covered business 13 91 b 2008 comparative results The results for 2008 of 248 million comprise the total result for the sold business i. e. including operating profit, short-term fluctuations in investment returns and the effect of changes in economic assumptions and the time value of cost of options and guarantees.
In order to facilitate comparisons of the Groups retained businesses, the presentation of the EEV basis results has been adjusted to show separately the results for the sold Taiwan agency business, as explained below: 339 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 18 Sale of legacy agency book and agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance of Taiwan continued 2008 m As previously published Adjustment Adjusted APE new business 3,025 146 2,879 New business profit 1,307 107 1,200 In-force profit 1,625 11 1,636 Asset management 345 345 Other results 316 316 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 2,961 96 2,865 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 5,127 160 4,967 Mark to market value movements on core borrowings 656 656 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 15 1 14 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and the time value of cost of options and guarantees 581 183 398 Results for sold Taiwan agency business Included above 248 248 Loss before tax 2,106 2,106 19 Post balance sheet events a Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited On 6 January 2010 the Group announced the acquisition from United Overseas Bank Limited UOB of its 100 per cent interest in UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore for total cash consideration of SGD428 million 192 million subject to a post-completion adjustment to reflect the net asset value as at the completion date.
This acquisition accompanied the announcement of a long-term strategic partnership with UOB.
Through this partnership Prudentials life insurance products will be distributed through UOB Groups 414 bank branches across Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand.
The Group continues to complete its compilation of the acquisition balance sheet and further details will be provided in the Groups 2010 half year results announcement.
b Japanese insurance subsidiarys suspension of writing new business On 15 January 2010 the Groups Japanese insurance subsidiary announced its intention to suspend writing new policyholder contracts in Japan after 15 February 2010.
The Company reinforced its commitment to servicing its existing policyholder base, which comprised over 170,000 contracts as at 30 September 2009.
This decision will be reviewed on an on-going basis in light of changes to the business environment.
This decision does not affect the Groups asset management operations in Japan, which ranks among the largest foreign asset managers.
c Agreement to acquire AIA Group Limited On 1 March 2010, Prudential plc announced that it had reached agreement with American International Group Inc. AIG, on terms for the combination of Prudential and AIA Group Limited AIA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG the Transaction.
AIA is a leading life insurance organisation in Asia which provides individuals and businesses with products and services for their insurance, protection, savings, investment and retirement needs in 15 geographical markets in the region.
The combined group will be the leading life insurer in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines with the leading foreign life insurance business in China and India, a significantly enhanced presence in the high growth South East Asian life markets and strong operations in the US and UK.
The Transaction will be effected through the acquisition of both Prudential by a scheme of arrangement, the Scheme and AIA by a new company New Prudential.
The new company will assume the name Prudential plc, be headquartered and incorporated in the UK, and traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange with ADRs traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The existing Board of Prudential will become the Board of New Prudential.
AIG will receive total consideration of US$35.5 billion, comprising US$25.0 billion in cash and US$10.5 billion in New Prudential shares and other securities.
The cash component of the consideration will be financed through an underwritten rights issue, raising US$20.0 billion net of fees and expenses and through issuance of US$5.0 billion senior notes net of fees and expenses.
These issues have been agreed to be underwritten by certain banks.
The terms of the rights issue will be set at the time of publication of Prudential and New Prudential prospectuses.
The rights issue and the Scheme will be subject to shareholder approval at a General meeting.
The Transaction is also subject to certain regulatory and anti-trust approvals including various regulatory approvals required on a change of control of Prudential as a result of the Scheme.
On 8 March 2010 the Company confirmed that the Prudential Group had entered into foreign exchange hedging arrangements in respect of its requirement to convert the pounds sterling proceeds of the rights issue into US dollars, which is the currency in which Prudential must pay the cash element of the consideration.
