Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty-ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 159 New Bond Street, London W1S 2UD on Wednesday 5 May 2010 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 13 are ordinary resolutions requiring a majority of more than 50%.
Resolution 13 is an ordinary resolution but is classi ed by Article 60 of the Articles of Association of the Company as non-routine, special business.
Resolutions 14 to 18 are special resolutions requiring a majority of 75% or more.
2009 Report and Accounts 1 To adopt the Report of the directors and the Audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
2 To approve the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 36 to 43.
Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the preparation of this report which must be approved by shareholders in general meeting.
This does not affect the directors entitlements to remuneration and the result of this resolution is advisory only.
Election and re-election of directors 3 To elect Kate Avery as a director of the Company.
4 To elect Kathryn Matthews as a director of the Company.
5 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director of the Company.
6 To re-elect Richard Lanyon as a director of the Company.
7 To re-elect Andrew Morris as a director of the Company.
8 To re-elect Andy Pomfret as a director of the Company.
9 To re-elect Richard Smeeton as a director of the Company.
Biographical details of the directors seeking election or re-election can be found on pages 25 to 26 and in the Directors report on page 29 in the case of Kate Avery and Kathryn Matthews who were appointed to the board on 6 January 2010.
Article 94 of the Articles of Association of the Company requires that each director who has not been elected or re-elected by the members at either of the two immediately previous Annual General Meetings shall retire from of ce and seek election or re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation by the Board and individual appraisal by the chairman, the Board con rms that all directors seeking election or re-election continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Auditors 10 To appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting before which accounts are laid.
11 To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors.
The auditors of a public company must be appointed for each financial year at the meeting at which the accounts for the previous financial year are laid.
Political donations 12 That in accordance with section 366 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company and any company which is or becomes a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this resolution relates be and is hereby authorised: a to make donations to political parties or independent election candidates: b to make donations to political organisations other than political parties: and c to incur political expenditure, Provided that: i the authority conferred by this resolution shall commence on the date on which it is passed and expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution: Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 114 Notice of Annual General Meeting Political donations continued ii the aggregate amount of such donations and expenditure shall not exceed 50,000 and the amount authorised under each of paragraphs a, b and c above shall also be limited to such amount: and iii in this resolution the expressions donation, political parties, political organisation, political expenditure and independent election candidate have the meanings set out in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006.
Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 prohibits the Company and its subsidiaries from making donations of more than 5,000 in any twelve month period to a political party or other political organisations or to an independent election candidate unless they have been authorised to make donations by the Companys shareholders.
The Company has a policy that it does not make donations to political parties, political organisations or independent election candidates and the Board will not use these authorities, if given, to do so.
However, the Companies Act 2006 includes broad and ambiguous fide nitions of political donations and expenditure, which may have the effect of covering some normal business activities, and therefore presents potential for inadvertent or technical breach.
The Board therefore considers that it would be prudent to obtain shareholder approval for the Company to make donations to political parties, political organisations and independent election candidates and to incur political expenditure up to the speci ed limit in the forthcoming year.
Authority to allot relevant securities 13 a That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into such shares: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 710,000: and ii comprising equity securities as fide ned in section 560 of the Act, up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 710,000 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue such authorities to expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution.
Notwithstanding such expiry, the authorities shall in each case still permit the Company to make allotments of relevant securities in respect of offers or agreements made before such expiry, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
All previous authorities to directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 are hereby revoked without prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant thereto.
b For the purposes of this resolution rights issue means an offer to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and, if applicable, to the holders of any other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class to subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable letter or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period before payment for the securities is due, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to i fractions of such securities, ii the issue, transfer and or holding of any securities in certi cated form or in uncerti cated form, iii the use of one or more currencies for making payments in respect of such offer, iv any such shares or other securities being represented by depositary receipts, v treasury shares or vi any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange, in any territory.
Paragraph a i of this resolution is proposed annually in order to provide a measure of authority to the directors to allot ordinary shares, limited to approximately 33% of the issued share capital of the Company at 23 February 2010, in circumstances fide ned by the resolution so as to enable them to respond, in the interests of the Company, to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
In addition, this resolution seeks to authorise the directors to allot more ordinary shares, limited to the amount set out in paragraph a ii being approximately a further 33% of the issued share capital of the Company at 23 February 2010.
This authority may be used for fully pre-emptive rights issues.
As at 23 February 2010, the Company does not hold any shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
115 Notice of Annual General Meeting Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Power to waive pre-emption rights 14 a That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities as fide ned in section 560 of the Act, payment for which is to be wholly in cash: i pursuant to the authority given by paragraph a i of resolution 13 in the notice of this meeting: A in connection with any rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, open for acceptance for a period determined by the directors, to the holders of ordinary shares on the register on any xed record date in proportion to their holdings of ordinary shares and, if applicable, to the holders of any other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to i fractions of such securities, ii the issue, transfer and or holding of any securities in certi cated form or in uncerti cated form, iii the use of one or more currencies for making payments in respect of such offer, iv any such shares or other securities being represented by depositary receipts, v treasury shares or vi any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory: and B other than pursuant to paragraph a i A above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 105,000: and ii pursuant to the authority given by paragraph a ii of resolution 13 in the notice of this meeting in connection with a rights issue as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment.
References herein to the allotment of equity securities shall include the sale of treasury shares within the meaning of section 724 5 of the Act.
b The powers given by this resolution shall expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution.
Notwithstanding such expiry, the authority shall still permit the Company to make allotments of equity securities in respect of offers or agreements made before such expiry which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
All previous disapplications of section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 are hereby revoked without prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant thereto.
c For the purposes of this resolution rights issue has the same meaning as in resolution 13 in the notice of this meeting.
This first special resolution seeks authority, limited to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 23 February 2010, regarding allotments, other than to members proportionately to their respective shareholdings and for which payment is to be wholly in cash.
Additionally, the resolution seeks authority for the Company to sell or otherwise deal with treasury shares being shares acquired and held by the Company without necessarily involving shareholders.
Over the three years to 31 December 2009, shares with a nominal value of 50,974 were allotted for cash, representing 2.4% of the issued share capital at that date.
This compares with institutional shareholder guideline limits of 7.5% in any three-year period.
Renewal of this limited authority will enable the directors to issue shares, in the interests of the Company, in response to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
For transactions of a substantial nature involving the allotment of shares, it is normal for the UK Listing Authority or company law to require shareholder approval for the speci c transaction notwithstanding this general authority.
Authority to purchase ordinary shares 15 That the directors be and they are hereby granted pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as fide ned by section 693 of the Act of any of its ordinary shares of 5p each upon and subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired is 2,100,000 shares being approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 23 February 2010 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case, exclusive of expenses : and Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 116 Notice of Annual General Meeting Authority to purchase ordinary shares continued d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract for the purchase of ordinary shares which would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may complete a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
This second special resolution is to renew the authority granted to the directors at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2009 to purchase the Companys own ordinary shares under certain stringent conditions.
The authority will be used only when the directors consider that it would be advantageous to the Company and the effect would be to enhance earnings per share.
Shares purchased will be held as treasury shares as fide ned in section 724 5 of the Act.
At 23 February 2010 there were options outstanding to subscribe for 777,214 new ordinary shares in the Company.
This represents 1.8% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at that date and would represent approximately 1.9% if the authority to buy back shares under this resolution were used in full.
Authority for the convening of general meetings of the Company on 14 clear days notice 16 That any general meeting of the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be convened by the giving of not less than 14 clear days notice.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 which came into force on 3 August 2009 increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
This notice period can be reduced to 14 days for general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting by the passing of a special resolution each year provided that voting by electronic means is available to all shareholders.
Adoption of new Articles of Association 17 That with effect from the conclusion of the meeting the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identi cation be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
This special resolution seeks authority to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006.
Some of the changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature or which merely conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies set out in The Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 have not been noted.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as described in the notes to the Notice of AGM below.
i Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
ii Redeemable shares Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
iii Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required speci c enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
117 Notice of Annual General Meeting Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Adoption of new Articles of Association continued iv Provision for employees on cessation of business The Companies Act 2006 provides that the powers of the directors of a company to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by the company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer to any person of the whole or part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary, may only be exercised by the directors if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general meeting.
The New Articles provide that the directors may exercise this power.
v Voting record date Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations the company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, not taking into account days which are not working days.
The New Articles have been amended to re ect this requirement.
vi Suspension of registration of share transfers The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
vii Chairmans casting vote The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006. viii Change of name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under Companies Act 2006 a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Dividend recti cation 18 That: a in respect of the payment of any and all final and interim dividends by the Company in each of the 12 financial periods ending on 31 December 2009 other than the financial periods ending 31 December 2002, 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 the Relevant Dividends, paid to current and former shareholders of the Company the appropriation of distributable pro ts of the Company as shown in the audited accounts of the Company for the financial period in which each such Relevant Dividend was paid to such payment, be and they are hereby rati ed and con rmed: b any and all claims which the Company may have in respect of the payment of any Relevant Dividend against its current and former shareholders who appeared on the register of shareholders on the relevant record date for each such Relevant Dividend be released and a deed of release in favour of such shareholders be entered into by the Company in the form of the deed produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identi cation and thereafter be delivered to the Secretary of the Company for retention on behalf of the said current and former shareholders the Release : c any distribution involved in the giving of the Release in relation to any particular Relevant Dividend be made out of the pro ts appropriated to such Relevant Dividend pursuant to paragraph a above by reference to a record date identical to the record date for that Relevant Dividend: and d any and all claims which the Company may have against its Directors both current and former either i in respect of the payment of any Relevant Dividend or ii in respect of any breach of duty owed by such Directors to the Company arising out of the payment of any Relevant Dividend be and they are hereby released and that a deed of release in favour of the Companys Directors be entered into by the Company in the form of the deed produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identi cation and thereafter be delivered to the Secretary of the Company for retention on behalf of the said Directors.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 118 Notice of Annual General Meeting Dividend recti cation continued As explained in the Directors report on page 31, following the identi cation of a technical irregularity regarding the timing of intra-group movements of reserves and the historic payment of dividends by the Company such dividends were paid at a time when the relevant accounts of the Company for the purposes of the Companies Acts did not show suf cient distributable reserves.
This resolution which is proposed in four linked parts asks shareholders to: a approve the appropriation of the historic pro ts of the Company to the dividend payment concerned: and b release the current and former shareholders and directors from any claim by the Company for repayment of the relevant dividends.
The purpose of the resolution is to put the shareholders and directors into the position in which they were always intended to be.
All of the directors who are shareholders holding in aggregate 2.0% of the ordinary shares of the Company will not be voting on this resolution in view of their interest in the subject matter of the proposal.
By Order of the Board Richard Loader Company secretary 31 March 2010 Registered Of ce: 159 New Bond Street, London W1S 2UD Notes 1 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001 and subject to the provisions for proxies, the Company speci es that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 3 May 2010 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm on the day two days prior to the day xed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Subsequent changes to the entries on the register will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or to vote at the meeting.
2 Members entitled to attend, speak and vote are entitled, if they so wish, to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their stead provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member.
Proxy forms should be completed and returned to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL by no later than 12.00 noon on 3 May 2010.
Alternatively, a member may appoint a proxy online by following the instructions for the electronic appointment of a proxy at www.
To be a valid proxy appointment, the members electronic message con rming the details of the appointment completed in accordance with those instructions must be transmitted so as to be received by the same time.
Members who hold their shares in uncerti cated form may also use CREST to appoint a proxy electronically, as explained below.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting if you so wish.
The vote withheld option is provided on the proxy card to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 5 May 2010 and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual which can be viewed at www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the speci cations of CRESTs operator, Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited Euroclear and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti ID RA19 by no later than 12.00 noon on 3 May 2010.
No message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which our registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
119 Notice of Annual General Meeting Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes continued Note 3 continued CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
5 The statement of rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
6 As at 28 February 2010 being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 43,296,330 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 28 February 2010 are 43,296,330.
7 A memorandum of the terms of all contracts of service between directors and the Company or any of its subsidiaries is available for inspection at the Registered Of ce during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded.
The memorandum will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
In addition, a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company and a copy of the existing Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by resolution 17 will be available for inspection at the Registered Of ce during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from 31 March 2010 to the date of the meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting, and during the meeting.
8 Each member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which, in accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the Company must cause to be answered.
9 Information relating to the meeting which the Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting may be viewed at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the Company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communicating with the Company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
10 It is possible that, pursuant to members requests made in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company will be required to publish on a website a statement in accordance with section 528 of that Act setting out any matter that the members concerned propose to raise at the meeting relating to the audit of the Companys latest audited accounts.
The Company cannot require the members concerned to pay its expenses in complying with those sections.
The Company must forward any such statement to its auditors by the time it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any such statement.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 120 Notice of Annual General Meeting
