Accounts The Capita Group Plc 135 16 Related party transactions There were no related party transactions that require disclosure in the year.
17 Pension costs The Company operates a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the defined contribution scheme for the year was 1.2m 2008: 1.3m.
18 Share based payment The Company operates several share based payment plans as follows: Deferred Annual Bonus Plan This scheme is applicable to Executive Directors and Divisional Executive Directors.
Under this scheme awards are made annually consisting of Deferred Shares, which are linked to the payout under the Annual Bonus Scheme details of which are contained in the Directors remuneration report and Matching Shares.
The value of Deferred Shares is determined by the payout under the Annual Bonus Scheme: half of the annual bonus is paid in cash and the remainder is compulsorily deferred on a gross basis into Deferred Shares.
The Deferred Shares are held for a period of 3 years from the date of award during which they are not forfeitable, except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
A conditional award of Matching Shares is made at the same time as the award of Deferred Shares.
Participants will be eligible to receive up to 1.5 Matching Shares for every Deferred Share.
Matching Shares will vest after the 3 year holding period to the extent to which performance conditions have been met.
33.3% of the Matching Shares will vest if growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS is equal to growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI plus 6% per annum, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting if growth in the Companys EPS is equal to or greater than growth in the RPI plus 16% per annum.
The performance condition attached to the awards may be amended by the Group Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Board, from time to time, subject to the new condition being no less demanding than the original condition.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP The 2008 LTIP was approved and adopted at the AGM on 6 May 2008.
The vesting of awards made during 2009 will depend on share price growth and EPS growth targets measured over a 3 year period.
An award will not vest if the Capitas average share price at the date of vesting is below the average share price at the date of grant.
This scheme is open to all senior employees and shares will vest according to performance criteria.
The number of shares which will vest is dependent upon the Company's EPS growth exceeding RPI growth by 4% and on banding within the scheme.
Long Term Indexed Share Appreciation Scheme LTISAS The LTISAS was only open to the Executive Directors and the Divisional Executive Directors.
Under the scheme, participants were provided with 2 equal tranches of 600,000 options.
The criteria were the same for each of these grants and therefore both tranches had performance periods that ended on 31 December 2006.
The exercise price of the option was restated in line with the FTSE All Share Index from the date of grant to 25 November 2007.
The restated exercise prices were 3.48 for the 2002 award and 4.74 for the 2004 award.
This feature ensured that participants only gained if the share price out-performed the index.
Options became exercisable, over the performance period, subject to the growth in the Company's EPS exceeding certain targets as follows: As growth in the Companys EPS over the 3 year period to 31 December 2006 exceeded RPI growth by 17.6%, 100% of the options vested representing 1,200,000 shares per participant and became exercisable on 25 November 2007.
The last award under the LTISAS was made in November 2004 and vested in full on 31 December 2006 and no further awards will be made under this plan.
Long Term Investment Plan LTIP Awards under the LTIP were structured either as Restricted Share Awards or Indexed Performance Share Appreciation Rights IPSARSs.
The last Restricted Share Awards and awards of IPSARSs vested in full in May 2001 and 2003 respectively.
The performance requirements were met in full on those dates and the IPSARS are exercisable at 1.69.
No further awards were made under the LTIP and only 1 award of IPSARS was made.
1997 Executive Share Option Scheme This scheme is open to senior employees other than Executive Directors and Divisional Executive Directors.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market price of the shares on the date of grant.
Options granted under this scheme become exercisable if the growth in the Companys EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 8% over the 3 year vesting period from the date of grant.
The contractual life of each option granted is 7 years.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Capita Sharesave Scheme This is an employee Save As You Earn scheme open to all Capita employees.
Under this scheme, employees are granted share options at a discount to the market price at the date of grant.
The options become exercisable for a 6 month period following completion of a 3 or 5 year savings period.
There are no performance conditions attached to these options.
The Group expense recognised for share based payments in respect of employee services received during the year to 31 December 2009 was 9.8m 2008: 9.2m, all of which arises from equity-settled share based payment transactions.
The total Company expense, after recharging subsidiary undertakings, charged to the profit and loss account in respect of FRS 20 Share based payment was 4.0m 2008: 2.9m.
