44 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 1.
Delivering business responsibly Targeting growth markets 4 5.
Maintaining performance across our divisions We lead the UK market in business process outsourcing the long term contracting-out of business processes to help lower costs and improve service delivery.
We focus on the UK and Ireland, where there are significant opportunities for growth.
Competitor rankings UK BPO market Total UK BPO market p. a Capita market split % of turnover 2009 2008 1.
Transport 3% 5% BT Global Services 4.0 4.1 Public sector 31.4bn 33.3% HP Enterprise Services was formerly EDS Private sector 50% 2009 2008 6.
Other corporates 20% 23% potential 1 9 8 2 7 3 4 6 5 Ovum 2008 and 2009 Business review The Capita Group Plc 45 Increasingly, clients are also We expect scal pressure on public A growing market seeking outsourcing partners with spending to heighten the focus on the financial stability to deliver a outsourcing in the public sector in Independent analysts have estimated complex range of services under a 2010.
Irrespective of which party wins that the total market for BPO in the UK long term contract.
Capita meets all the UK General Election, further cost in 2009 was 6bn, against market these requirements and our clients efficiencies will need to be achieved potential of 94.2bn a year.
The have the benefit of working with one without compromising the availability capacity for long term growth partner responsible for a spectrum or quality of frontline public services.
therefore remains substantial as of services rather than having to organisations review their business A combination of reduced revenues manage multiple service providers.
and increased demand for services is models and acknowledge the benets The long term contracts we secure, likely to add pressure on budgets both of outsourcing.
and our high contract renewal rate, locally and centrally.
With our solid We remain the clear leader in the evidence the strength of our track record of delivering public sector overall UK BPO market, with 27.0% partnerships and our clients contracts, we are well placed to help market share 2008: 25.5%.
satisfaction: in turn, this helps us organisations to introduce new, more secure further business.
sustainable and streamlined ways of In 2009 we gained business across working to meet public needs.
Our focus on the UK and Ireland has both the public and private sectors.
allowed us to develop a detailed Private sector: The 3 main private As a result, the sector split of revenues understanding of our chosen markets sector markets we focus on are life remained broadly in balance at 50% and the key drivers for outsourcing in and pensions, insurance, and financial private 50% public 2008: 52% 48%.
We also support an increasing gives us further competitive advantage.
number of organisations in other Our most active market in 2009 markets and we have a growing was local government.
We also saw 9 diverse and growing markets interest in the banking and utilities increased activity in financial services We currently operate in 9 distinct sectors.
and central government and ongoing markets across the public and private interest from the life and pensions sectors where the drivers for In the current economic climate there outsourcing are strong.
We are number is increased pressure on commercial market.
All these markets are expected one in most of our markets.
We remain organisations to drive down to offer a further steady ow of focused on selecting opportunities operational costs without opportunities.
where we believe we can clearly meet compromising customer service or Competitive advantage clients expectations and add value, their competitiveness in their Our scale, exible infrastructure fuelling controlled growth and marketplace.
As they strive to do this, and expertise position us well in our achieving a reasonable return for and to bring new products to market 9 chosen markets.
Our clients benefit the Group.
faster, we expect them to consider the from reduced costs, improved business higher productivity and enhanced Public sector: We provide outsourcing processes and better services to offer operational and advisory capabilities and support services to both local their own customers.
Our reputation that an experienced outsourcing authorities and central government.
allows us to compete strongly in our service provider can bring them.
We have built particular expertise in marketplace.
education, transport and health We remain encouraged by the level and have a growing interest in defence.
of opportunities across our chosen markets.
With our scale, expertise and financial stability, we believe we are strongly placed to help existing and potential clients create more exible, lower cost operating models while improving service quality.
