Business review The Capita Gr The Capita Group oup Plc Plc 59 59 5.1 5.2 5.3 Alignment with An individual A exible divisional Group strategy business focus operating structure We maintain a straightforward, With an objective of achieving We have created a pragmatic, exible pragmatic divisional structure that continuous growth and strong structure which is regularly refreshed delivers our Group strategy.
performance, each business undertakes as the Group develops.
We move appropriate strategies to achieve or businesses, contracts and managers The operating divisions and the maintain market leading positions.
across the divisions to ensure the best businesses within them are aligned match of leadership and resources as with the Groups overall objectives and Research and development initiatives the Group grows.
They all follow the Group underpin the constant development benefit from the powerful combination strategy of securing strong, sustainable of products and services to meet the of individual focus and the ability to growth, both organically and by current and future needs of clients.
reach out across the Group to share acquiring complementary businesses Businesses adopt the most appropriate operational skills and resources, benefit which allow them to strengthen marketing and sales activities to from economies of scale, create and their position in their respective address the characteristics of their deploy innovation, and harness the marketplaces or add new and individual marketplaces.
Each business best of ICT and business processes.
complementary skills to their also maintains strict disciplines on cost current operations.
control and seeks to streamline Many of our contracts draw on processes where appropriate.
expertise and resources from across The divisional structure supports a number of Group businesses.
a robust, individual focus for each The success of our business and service We have established robust models business while providing ready access focus is acknowledged through the of collaborative working with clear to the Groups wider resources, breadth and number of industry lines of responsibility, consistent expertise and economies of scale.
awards and accreditations we attain.
communication and reporting to offer We have also helped many of our Each business produces its own a seamless approach to our clients.
clients win awards through our role in annual business plan outlining specic delivering improvements in operations We are currently organised into strategies and considerations and and services.
Examples of these awards 5 operating divisions, plus a Group setting performance targets for the are set out throughout this report.
The business units operating division brings together financial plans feed into the Group activities with similar operating models financial model.
Each major contract is The MOB review process ensures managed within the division which regular monitoring and reporting of best meets its operational, regulatory performance against targets and is an and management requirements.
effective forum for planning ahead, To provide greater transparency we solving issues and sharing expertise report financial progress for 8 business and support.
See page 23. segments, splitting Insurance & Investor Services into 2 segments and Integrated Services into 3 segments.
Group-wide support services, such as finance, legal and commercial, property management, procurement, health and safety and environment and HR, report directly to Board Executive Directors to ensure robust control, consistent standards and shared benets across the Group.
60 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 5.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 1 2009 performance 2010 priorities Life & Pensions Services AXA: Contract signed in May to administer Continue progress towards our utility model 3.2 million policies comprising both a closed and the transformation of service delivery by: 2009 2008 traditional book and growing portfolio of direct Consolidating sites and rationalising m m business.
Since the service started in June with operations Turnover 520.7 454.0 the transfer of 1,150 employees in the UK, and Creating centres of service excellence to the transfer of a further 550 people in India in Underlying operating profit 62.1 53.9 serve multiple clients September, we have delivered a step change in Underlying operating margin 11.9% 11.9% Migrating IT systems to our strategic service levels.
platforms Capex 28.8 34.9 Abbey Life: We commenced delivery of this Transferring selected operations to our sites contract in March with the successful transfer of in India operations and 370 employees in Bournemouth.
Comprises all our life and pensions Focus on developing our relationships further Prudential: We continue to make excellent outsourced administration operations, with existing clients and continue to win work progress and are on track to complete our including open and closed books of from new clients contact centre and back ofce transformation individual life and pensions policies and Seek niche acquisitions to develop further our programmes in 2010.
Our delivery of a portfolio of services occupational pension schemes.
Our consistently high quality of service for Prudential is now being recognised through major industry Continue building the knowledge-based operations in India are also managed processes capability within Capita India.
See pages 65 to 68. within this division as they play a key role in securing and delivering life and Zurich: We have continued to sustain and indeed improve upon high levels of customer pensions contracts.
service that have helped the Zurich and Sterling We are the leading life and pensions brands gain the highest Five Star industry ratings from the adviser community in each of outsourcing provider with a resource the 4 years that the service has been outsourced of 9,000 people across our operations.
In addition, we have further As our business continues to grow, we developed new retention initiatives within the are introducing further efficiencies, Client Option Teams which has ensured that developing our blended onshore both brands retain their valuable client bases.
offshore delivery and introducing Pearl: Service quality is at its highest levels.
common IT platforms such as Elixir As part of the introduction of integrated onshore offshore operations we have moved and HartLink, frameworks and c. 250 roles to India and plan to transfer methodologies in order to provide further work there in 2010. further scale benets and excellent Co-operative Financial Services: We customer service to our clients.
The successfully completed our first platform market is highly active and continues migration in 2009 and the second in the first to offer strong new contract quarter of 2010, achieving this step change opportunities.
while improving operational efficiency and reaching service levels not previously attained.
Capita Hartshead: Maintained our leadership in pension-scheme administration and actuarial and pensions consulting.
Further enhanced our actuarial and pensions consultancy offering with the acquisition and smooth integration of Gissings.
Offshore: Capita India has continued to expand and is now our largest multi client operation servicing 17 different clients from 5 sites.
The fifth ofce of over 32,000 sqft was opened in Bangalore in September.
We continue to expand the service capability in India, including additional knowledge based processes and the introduction of property consultancy services in the year.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 61 2 2009 performance Learning & development businesses: Secured Integrated Services a number of new contracts including with the TV Licensing and CRB contracts: We have VW Group to deliver all commercial training continued to maintain high levels of service, Integrated Services to their network of car dealerships.
We also meeting and exceeding our KPIs and delivering excluding HR solutions and broadened our relationship with BAA with the effective frontline solutions.
Our back ofce property consultancy award of the managed service for all external systems continue to robustly support the training spend over the next 3 years.
For DWP correct processing of applications, payment 2009 2008 Job Centre Plus, we assessed over 21,000 and enquiries.
m m people in a 7 month period, our largest ever BBC Audience Services: We were successful in Turnover 340.0 339.5 assessment contract.
being re-awarded the contract to deliver Underlying operating profit 55.0 54.4 Capita Symonds: Has performed well in audience services for BBC.
From January 2010 difficult market conditions winning a number of Underlying operating margin 16.2% 16% we will move to one site in Belfast with a significant assignments.
A multidisciplinary satellite ofce in Glasgow.
Capex 6.8 8.9 team is working on 2 of the 4 portals on the Learner Support Programme: Since assuming Londons Crossrail project, awarded via responsibility for administering this scheme in HR solutions Crossrails Design Consultant Framework.
November 2008, the contract is progressing We have provided lead consultant, strategic 2009 2008 well.
We currently process and pay over m m partnering, educational, building design and 600,000 learners per week, on behalf of 4,000 architectural services on several Building learning provider institutions, and deal with Turnover 280.6 258.2 Schools for the Future BSF programmes, approximately 2 million calls.
Underlying operating profit 26.2 24.2 4 of which have been award winning.
Home Access Grant Administration: This Underlying operating margin 9.3% 9.4% We are providing a number of services on the contract to administer and market the grant on Capex 1.4 2.0 11bn Defence Training Review DTR project behalf of Becta has started well, with a at RAF St. Athan in South Wales.
The new controlled launch and take up of the scheme.
academy is the result of the Governments We have developed interfaces with multiple Property consultancy Capita Symonds major initiative to reorganise the entire training equipment suppliers to process grant payments programme for the Armed Forces.
which will total 136m over the period of the 2009 2008 m m contract.
2010 priorities Turnover 258.1 262.2 To maintain and exceed current levels of Call Centre and Specialist Services: Our service across our major contracts partnership with eircom, which commenced in Underlying operating profit 23.1 22.8 2005, was further strengthened with a contract To complete the transition and transformation Underlying operating margin 9.0% 8.7% extension and a new contract for customer programme for BBC Audience Services on Capex 2.1 2.7 retention activity.
time and integrate new and revised services To assist Becta meet their strategic aim to Resourcing businesses: Despite difficult market provide some 270,000 grants for personal conditions, our businesses generally performed Comprises all our major central computers and internet connectivity to well.
Most of our clients are in the public sector government contracts, our property low-income families to support learning where we have placed over 1,500 roles at a senior level.
Our contract with the Ofce of consultancy, contact centres, our Continue to penetrate the Local Government National Statistics for the 2011 Census is well sector offering our portfolio of HR services: portfolio of HR services: our resourcing underway, with the first rehearsal successfully learning & development, payroll and HR businesses, integrated HR solutions, completed in October.
We are also working administration and resourcing HR and payroll administration, with BBC for the recruitment of over 1,500 staff Continue to make investment in bringing learning & development and for the new BBC media centre based in Salford.
together a number of our HR operations in outplacement services.
more efficient operating units underpinned Veredus: Delivering senior executive search and with a shared CRM technology platform interim management solutions, performed well in 2009, recruiting over 230 board level Across Capita Symonds continue to build appointments including 27 CEOs, placing over major programme management capability 280 interim managers and undertaking 120 and niche capability in growth sectors such psychological assessments.
as renewable energy, waste management and transport technology through acquisition Integrated HR Solutions: We are playing a and recruitment key role in our partnership with Shefeld CC delivering HR and payroll services for the Continue to tender our services across the Council and the surrounding schools.
100 HR and payroll staff transferred to Capita.
62 62 The Capita Gr The Capita Group oup Plc Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 5.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 3 2009 performance 2010 priorities Insurance & Our insurance businesses have made steady Refocus our sales activities to grow further our progress in a challenging year for the insurance position in the insurance outsourcing market Investor Services industry.
Our bespoke services are positioned and expand our services to the broker market well with Capita Commercial Insurance Services Continue enhancing our offshore capability Insurance services now operating as a London market service in order to offer clients a exible onshore 2009 2008 provider working for 7 out of the top 10 Lloyds offshore service solution m m of London managing agents.
Use our scale and reputation for compliant Turnover 246.8 246.2 Capita Insurance Distribution: In the year we delivery to provide clients with an effective Underlying operating profit 28.4 31.1 integrated BDML, Lancaster Insurance Services way of addressing the tighter regulation that and Hero Insurance Services.
The business is we are seeing across the financial services Underlying operating margin 11.5% 12.6% now ranked 5th in the Insurance Age 2009 poll market Capex 2.4 8.0 of Top 50 Brokers ranked by brokerage income.
Continue controlled growth in In particular, we are now administering 35 Pet multi-jurisdictions for delivery of trust Schemes for Afnity Partners insuring Investor services and asset management services via approximately 300,000 dogs and cats in the organic growth and acquisitions 2009 2008 UK.
During the year we were awarded contracts m m Build on 2009 successes in investor with Igo4, Castle Cover, Aviva and Assurant.
services to secure additional large scale Turnover 174.5 173.9 Marsh: Our comprehensive transformation share plan and registration clients, in Underlying operating profit 35.1 39.6 programme is delivering enhanced service to particular FTSE 100 organisations Marsh and its clients alongside reductions in Underlying operating margin 20.1% 22.8% Recommence sales lead generation in operational transaction costs.
We have further our CFG business and complete migration Capex 12.8 18.3 developed our onshore offshore blended service of all businesses onto the FAR platform.
delivery model, creating a centre of excellence for insurance outsourcing services based in Comprises our businesses delivering Marshs existing Norwich premises and financial services propositions to the successfully transferred outsourced services in Pune, India from a previous provider.
business and consumer markets insurance, shareholder, financial and Shareholder services: We secured 20 new trust administration and treasury contracts, a record number, from other suppliers including contracts with Stagecoach services businesses.
Key services to Group plc, Northern Foods Plc and most the corporate market are share notably Standard Life Plc which has in excess registration, fund administration of 1.5 million shareholders.
and insurance policy and claims Capita Financial Group: The business was administration.
We also deliver affected by the drop in valuation of funds under financial consulting and advisory administration, the introduction of a new, services to local authorities and market leading IT platform and the increased cost of regulation.
The resolution of the housing associations.
For consumers, suspension of the Arch cru funds is requiring we provide broker services for motor, considerable management attention and household and pet insurance products, resources.
With improved processes and the as well as trust administration services.
completion of the IT migration this year, the business is better placed for further growth.
Many of these businesses are operating See pages 8 and 9. in challenging environments, however Acquisitions: The acquisitions of FMS their focus on providing efficient, Netherlands B. V. Capmark and Fidei quality advisory, administration Fiduciaire S. a. r. l have increased the capabilities and customer services, has enabled and expertise of our Fiduciary and Trust Services the majority of them to continue businesses and are already delivering positive results for the Group.
Disposals: At the end of the year we disposed of some of our loss adjusting and associated advisory services.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 63 4 2009 performance our local authority solution, in achieving Professional Services Local Government Strategic Partnerships: We efficiency savings is widely recognised as have continued to deliver improved services, evidenced by the adoption of the transport 2009 2008 process and cost efficiencies and ICT solutions module by Cardiff CC.
By making transport m m across our partnerships: routes for children with special needs more Turnover 358.7 325.2 efficient, journeys were reduced by 1,200 miles Shefeld: We have continued to deliver per day benefiting pupils and reducing CO Underlying operating profit 69.4 57.8 2 transformation plans, including transformation emissions signicantly.
Underlying operating margin 19.3% 17.8% of IT services with a large scale Data Centre Migration.
Capita Total Document Solutions: Rolled out Capex 4.4 6.0 an innovative business process platform to Southampton: The new Gateway and support Capitas life and pensions contracts and Customer Services Centre has received excellent Capita Financial Groups registrations and Comprises our operations focused on customer satisfaction ratings.
New clients for implemented further IT infrastructure to supporting local authorities including Swordsh, our electronic document underpin enhanced council services.
strategic partnerships, and childrens management system included Lloyds underwriter Novae Group PLC, the Gentoo services, through strategic advice and Harrow: Working in partnership with the Group and RCT Homes and a number of Council to deliver further savings beyond the interim support, outsourced Capita businesses.
set target which has been met.
The Council administration services, ICT and and the public are benefiting from major Capita Local Government Services: Performed software solutions and support.
transformational improvements and the well in the year and won several new contracts, introduction of new services including We continue to develop and deliver including a contract worth 40m over 15 years customer contact, mobile working, Access with Breckland Council.
Continued to support new and innovative solutions and Harrow and Waste Management.
and help grow our strategic partnerships.
products to support effective Handled over 1 million face to face contacts Swindon: Continuing to deliver enhanced administration and joined up services and 2.2 million calls.
Processed over 900m services, benets and value to the Council.
to meet the needs of our clients and of council taxes and collected 2bn of Call centre gained a national CCA award.
The local government and business rates.
Capita Software Services software services education markets are constantly National Strategies: We continue to deliver a for local government and the housing market: facing change and there is increased strong and innovative service and that has had Revenues and benets: maintained our pressure to achieve efficiencies.
a real impact on teaching and learning.
The leading position securing new business with contract has been extended for 1 year until the We therefore focus on continuously a number of councils, including bringing Government ends the programme in 2011. seeking to deliver innovative but 3 separate systems into a single solution for practical service solutions and Capita Assurance and Testing: Continues to new unitary, Cheshire West and Chester grow strongly serving external and Capita leveraging our expertise and scale Council.
Migrated several authorities on to clients and has established a fast growing our platform in readiness for shared services to better service our clients and offshore testing practice in India.
2010 priorities Housing management: Strengthened our Maintain market share in local government portfolio with the addition of IBSs housing and education software as we assist clients business.
7 new contracts were secured with to respond to change quickly and efficiently clients including Falkirk and Southway Housing Trusts.
New product launched into Continue to explore opportunities to work the Supported Housing market, with 6 with local councils through strategic contracts secured.
partnerships and joint ventures as they aim to deliver quality services at a lower cost Payment management: Business performed Support local authorities in their shared well with 3 new unitary authorities services initiatives Cornwall, Northumberland and Central Bedfordshire and a number of councils Grow Capita Assurance and Testing further including Shefeld CC and Hammersmith & through both our onshore and offshore Fulham selecting our solutions.
capabilities Focus both on external sales opportunities Capita Childrens Services: We continued to and opportunities to deliver value to other develop and implement innovative software Capita businesses and contracts.
and service solutions across education and childrens services.
In 2009 around 2 schools a week chose to move to SIMs, including a contract to supply all North Yorkshire CCs primary schools.
The success of One, 64 64 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 5.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 5 2009 performance Capita Business Travel & Conferences: ICT, Health & Capita Health Services: Our health business Alongside operational consolidation, the has continued to grow and perform well, business traded well in challenging market Business Services securing a number of significant contracts conditions.
We secured a significant number of and acquisitions.
Important milestones new clients and a place on the OGC framework 2009 2008 have included: for public sector travel procurement.
Our m m conferences business delivered over 200 Turnover 507.4 382.2 successful transfer and delivery of NHS conferences in highly diversied elds.
We have Choices, achieving average growth in trafc Underlying operating profit 58.4 37.1 implemented sophisticated Customer volumes to the website of 7 million per Management systems in both our travel and Underlying operating margin 11.5% 9.7% month.
See pages 19 to 21. conferences businesses, enabling us to increase Capex 9.7 10.1 successful launch of another new Department marketing efficiency and respond to our clients of Health service called The Information more effectively.
Standard Capita Consulting: focusing on local and Comprises our ICT business, health in December, we signed a contract with central government, health and the private business, our Service Birmingham NHS BSA to administer the processing and sector, the business has progressed well partnership, business travel payment of circa 40 million dental claims and winning new business with clients including provide a managed IT service.
The service will Stockport MBC, Buckingham CC, Sellaeld administration, conferences and be delivered by our health and IT services and Royal Pharmaceutical Society.
2010 priorities The businesses within this division Capita IT Services: we have focused on Continue to implement key components of have traded well both through the extending our capabilities through selective Birmingham CCs Customer First programme, strengthening of existing client acquisitions and growing organically: enabling simpler access to services for citizens.
Focus on driving through business benets relationships as well as forming new while continuing to support Capita businesses across all Service Birmingham programmes to ones, such as those in the health and their clients, our IT Services business address the increased funding pressures faced has had increasing success in winning IT market.
Our ICT business, which by local authorities outsourcing ITO contracts from external supports external clients and the Continue to grow IT Services through securing clients across both the private and public Groups contracts and operations, further external clients and providing broader sectors including a contract to provide a has also expanded through a services to other Capita business units and tailored ICT service to NHS Hounslow their clients combination of contract wins and and participating in the BSF programme, including a contract in Rochdale Maintain the growth of our presence in the acquisitions.
Our prospects for health sector by further integrating sales growth remain positive in the various Computerland has been fully integrated into across our health businesses and developing markets served by this division.
our IT Services business and Carillion IT additional outsourcing opportunities Services is currently being integrated, Make further enhancements to our travel and bringing valuable additional capabilities conference services in order to continue to and accreditations.
The enlarged business deliver high standards of service to our clients now has over 2,000 technical resources.
Enhance capabilities and increase market Service Birmingham: We continue to drive reach through selective acquisitions.
efficiency and deliver core ICT service and solutions to support the Councils ambitious business transformation programme.
New developments include: delivery of a more robust and reliable external Council website on a new, scalable and resilient infrastructure, named by Sitemorse as the fastest improving local authority website in the UK implementation of a new performance development review and HR payroll systems to help the Council make best use of its people resources, improve performance and become an employer of choice.
The Capita Group Plc 65 Case study 1 Case study 5 Prudential aims to be the leader in retirement 66 66 The Capita Group Plc Already, 10,000 independent advisers say its better than ever In April 2008 we began a In 2007, Prudential outlined its strategy of selectively competing in 15-year, 722m contract to the UK retirement savings and income markets.
While focusing on manage and transform the maximising value from the opportunities provided by the need for administration of Prudentials innovative retirement solutions, Prudential also looked to reduce life and pensions operations, its administration costs while continuing to enhance service to involving some 7 milion policies.
To help achieve this, its customer Our task is to reduce operating and adviser service operation was outsourced to Capita in 2008 costs while increasing customer transferring 3,000 front ofce, back ofce and IT employees in the satisfaction and loyalty by UK and Mumbai.
stepping-up service efficiency, At Capita our 5-year transformation programme is introducing, quality and exibility.
among other things, a new approach to management development, focused on boosting commercial awareness and leadership.
We brought in new training for contact centre employees to Were transforming: enhance their skills, confidence and knowledge to handle enquiries Back ofce processes and complaints more effectively and to meet the Financial Services Frontline customer contact Authoritys mandate of treating customers fairly.
HR, training and development In October 2008 the financial crisis triggered a huge upsurge in calls IT infrastructure and support.
and mail from anxious customers.
Our team took it in their stride, providing the support and reassurance policyholders needed in a way that fully reected Prudentials brand values.
And in the 2009 Financial Adviser Service Awards over 10,000 advisers gave their verdict.
For the first time in a decade, Prudential won five star ratings in 2 categories: Investments and Life and Pensions.
This brings more than kudos: many key advisers will only recommend providers that attain the highest service levels.
The Capita Group Plc 67 Keith Phillips,... an improved service proposition that meets Key Accounts intermediaries needs Director Prudential... a responsive and knowledgeable contact centre UK and Europe,... more satisfied customers and advisers notes partnership... attaining five star rating benets 68 The Capita Group Plc The way our working relationship with Capita has evolved is making a tangible difference to our customers and advisers.
In Capita, we have a long term partner who delivers on service and continually works with us to nd exible solutions to our business needs.
Capitas commitment to the partnership continues to enhance our overall proposition.
Tulsi Naidu Operations Director, Prudential UK and Europe
