94 The Capita Group Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued j Goodwill Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at this date.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
This was changed on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 is, on acquisition, initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves and does not get recycled through the income statement.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units which are expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cashgenerating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
k Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2008 or 2009.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled as follows: brands are amortised evenly over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 10 years software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 15 years client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 6.5 years.
l Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
m Investments and other financial assets All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management strategy.
n Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts, except where no right of set-off exists.
p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value.
After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
