92 The Capita Group Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued d Changes in accounting policies continued The principal effects of these changes are as follows: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations The standard has been amended to clarify the definition of vesting conditions and to prescribe the accounting treatment of an award that is effectively cancelled because a non-vesting condition is not satisfied.
The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The amended standard requires additional disclosure about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three level hierarchy for each class of financial instrument.
In addition, a reconciliation between the opening and closing balance for Level 3 fair value measurements is now required, as well as significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures.
As IFRS 7 is a disclosure standard, there is no impact of that change in accounting policy on the consolidated financial statements other than to enhance disclosure.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments This standard requires disclosure of information about the Groups operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Group.
Adoption of this standard did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group determined that the operating segments were the same as the business segments previously identified under IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
Related changes to IAS 12 require equity movements in tax to be shown in the statement of changes in equity rather than in the statement of comprehensive income.
The presentation has been aligned with this requirement.
In addition, the revised standard requires the presentation of an additional balance sheet in those circumstances where changes resulting from retroactive restatements would have a material effect on the comparative amounts included within the balance sheet.
There have been no material retroactive restatements.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised The standard has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets and the Group has amended its accounting policy accordingly.
In accordance with the transitional requirements of the standard, this has been adopted as a prospective change from the commencement date of 1 January 2009.
No change has been made for borrowing costs incurred prior to this date that have been expensed.
Since adoption, the Group has commissioned no qualifying assets thus no borrowing costs have been capitalised.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation The standards have been amended to allow a limited scope exemption for puttable financial instruments to be classified as equity if they fulfil a number of specified criteria.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs 2008 In May 2008 the International Accounting Standards Board issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
The adoption of these amendments, which are effective from 1 January 2009, did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes This interpretation requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
A portion of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits and deferred.
This is then recognised as revenue over the period that the award credits are redeemed.
The Group does not operate any customer loyalty programmes and therefore the adoption of this IFRIC did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation This interpretation provides guidance on the accounting for a hedge of a net investment.
It provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify for hedge accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within the Group the hedging instruments can be held in the hedge of a net investment and how an entity should determine the amount of foreign currency gain or loss, relating to both the net investment and the hedging instrument, to be recycled on disposal of the net investment.
The Group has no hedges of net investments in foreign operations and consequently the adoption of this interpretation did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers This interpretation, which is effective for transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009, provides guidance on how to account for items of property, plant and equipment received from customers, or cash that is received and used to acquire or construct specific assets.
It is only applicable to such assets that are used to connect the customer to a network or to provide ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or both.
The entity must initially determine whether the asset meets the definition set out in the interpretation.
If the definition is met, the asset is measured at fair value on initial recognition as part of an exchange transaction.
The entity must identify the service s delivered and allocate the consideration received the fair value of the asset to each identifiable service.
Revenue is recognised as each service is delivered by the entity.
The adoption of this interpretation did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
e Revenue Revenue is earned within the United Kingdom, Europe, India and South-East Asia.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Other than in respect of service contracts, described below, and where the Group is acting as lessor see v, revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of value added tax.
For time and materials contracts which are those where Capita provide staff to clients at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis of time worked.
Revenue on contracts where there is an ongoing service e. g. life and pension policy administration, hardware maintenance is recognised over the period during which the service is provided.
Contracts where there are distinguishable components are separated and revenue is recognised individually on the basis that each component can be reliably estimated.
Revenues and costs relating to each element are recognised simultaneously.
