36 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 3.
Delivering business responsibly 3.3 Engaging our people Developing our people Motivating and We rely on our people to drive Training is rmly embedded in all supporting our people forward the business and therefore our businesses.
This encourages and Aim: to attract, develop and retain a effective engagement with our supports personal and career talented, ambitious workforce with the employees is vital.
As 70% of our development, which in turn helps right skills and capacity to meet the employees transfer to Capita from our employees achieve greater job needs of our business as it grows.
positive Group-wide culture is Progress: Our 36,800 employees are Our managers develop individually important to us.
Our relatively at primarily based in the UK, Ireland, the tailored career paths for our employees.
management structure allows fast Channel Islands and India.
We have We focus on 3 main types of training decision making, team-working and created a workplace that is supportive, specic job related skills, personal support across the Group.
We use rewarding, diverse, safe and inspiring development and vocational and a range of communication tools and have therefore become an professional qualications.
In 2009, and encourage open, two-way employer of choice and well positioned we invested 11.9m in employee communication.
An annual employee to attract the best talent.
training, providing 4,100 training days survey helps us to identify and track for our employees.
Our Vocational Leadership development where our policies and initiatives are Learning programme, introduced in working well and similarly which areas Our company culture is one of strong 2007, has helped over 1,000 employees need improvement.
Investing in skills and gain vocational qualications.
developing our people is critical to Employee integration our future prosperity.
In 2009, we Successfully managing large scale enhanced our approach to training employee integration is one of Capitas and introduced the Capita Academy, greatest strengths, giving our clients which provides all employees with confidence when making the decision training opportunities, and the Capita to transfer their employees to us.
Managers Academy, providing specic The key to this is robust transfer courses to ensure that managers are procedures coupled with good well equipped to help deliver our communication.
We consult with the business strategy, respond to clients potential transferees throughout the needs and direct and support our whole process, providing support and people effectively.
In order to promote information and explaining the knowledge sharing across the Group benets of the transfer, as well as and provide career progression and introducing them to our company variety, we actively reassign managers culture and values.
