Accounts The Capita Group Plc 95 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued q Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
r Surplus properties The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
s Pre-contract costs Pre-contract award bidding costs are expensed as incurred.
t Pension schemes The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement for the year when they are due.
In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in a number of other defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes are conditional on employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average vesting period.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest cost element of the defined benefit pension charge represents a change in the present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In respect of 3 of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised in equity through the statement of comprehensive income such that the balance sheet reflects the schemes surplus or liability at the balance sheet date.
Current and past service cost are charged to operating profit with the interest cost, net of expected return on assets in the plans, included within administrative expenses.
The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
u Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement and are presented as non-underlying.
