Business review The Capita Group Plc 27 2.3 Systems and procedures are in place At Group level, risk management is Maintaining careful across the Group to identify, assess and independently facilitated and risk management mitigate major business risks that challenged by the Group Risk and could impact the delivery of our Business Assurance function, which growth strategy.
Monitoring our reports to the Group Finance Director exposure to risk is an integral part and independently to the Audit of the MOB process, described on Committee.
Across a number of our businesses, including all the regulated businesses, the MOB process is supplemented by formally constituted risk committees and a Black Hat process to monitor and seek Board approval regarding acquisitions and major bids.
Risk Management & Governance Group Board Independent assurance Business management Group Risk Monthly Black Hat Group Audit Committee Nomination Committee Operational process and Business MOB Remuneration reviews Committees Consolidated risk dashboards Divisional Risk Divisional Committees Monthly Management Meetings Pre-MOBs Risk dashboards Business Units Business Unit Major bids Statutory Business Regulatory risk Risk Committees Monthly acquisitions: operational risk, and compliance financial reporting Management qualication, due information security, monitoring Meetings diligence pricing fraud, HSE, internal review sign-off control assurance Risk registers 28 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 2.
Controlling and measuring growth 2.3 continued Risk management Risk category Risk mitigation Financial Financial performance of each business unit is monitored each Treasury management: the Groups financial instruments for month and actual progress against plan is challenged by the fundraising are bonds, term debt, unsecured loan notes, finance Executive Directors leases and overdrafts.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and debtors that arise Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary controls directly from its operations.
Where appropriate, the Group may and spending above specified levels requires Group sign-off.
also use derivatives to hedge its exposure to uctuations in interest rate and foreign exchange rates.
It is the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments will be undertaken.
Delegates Ongoing risk-based oversight and performance monitoring Rigorous risk-based due diligence processes for the selection of all key operational delegates suppliers and other key of key delegates and wider counterparties, and significant Counterparties counterparties re-assessment exercise conducted in current economic environment.
Operational risk Escalated via the MOB process and risk committees Continuous cycle of learning and improvement actions across to Divisional Directors and the Board as appropriate the business Operating performance indicators in place across all Risk-based independent assurance programmes focused on businesses contracts key areas of operational risk.
Key Group forums in place providing operational risk support in the areas of: Information Security Business Continuity Payment Card Industry Compliance New contracts Rigorous, risk-based due diligence process Secure appropriate pricing and contract terms to ensure fair risk reward prole Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to consideration and approval by the Board Transition process to ensure maximisation of continuity of service and retention of staff.
Aligned with core competencies and financial targets Acquisitions Aligned with core competencies and financial targets Integration process to ensure adoption of Group policies and procedures Rigorous, risk-based due diligence process Continuous improvement approach to the take-on and Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to consideration and integration of new businesses.
approval by the Board Fraud Mitigating policies and procedures are published by the Zero tolerance to fraud and financial crime Group Risk and Business Assurance function in conjunction with Computer based anti-fraud and fraud management training Group Compliance deployed across operations.
Financial services Monitoring by the Group Compliance function to ensure Ensuring the business has appropriate policies and procedures in that regulatory risks are identied, assessed, monitored, place regulation managed and controlled Risk based monitoring and reporting of findings continues to be Reporting to senior management, subsidiary boards undertaken in accordance with entity level compliance plans and Risk Committees approved by senior management.
Independent reporting to the Audit Committee.
Reputation Robust process for handling and escalating enquiries Centralised proactive and reactive PR team to promote Group complaints from all stakeholders at both a business contract and business units and manage communications regarding and Group level primarily clients, media, public and suppliers issues.
Procurement Group Procurement prepares and manages the generic Individual contract or category Risk Registers are produced by procurement risk register which is produced annually and procurement managers for all high value or high-risk Group owned by the Group Procurement Director.
This Risk Register contracts, and when assessing or reviewing Tier 1 suppliers.
identies the key supply chain risks across Group contracts and suppliers, and identies actions to prevent occurrences Attracting and Investment in training and development Succession planning is a key element of MOB process retaining staff Competitive, appropriate incentive schemes Continual development of our screening and reference process for all employees.
The Capita Group Plc 29 Case study 1 Case study 2 The HSE wants to stop cowboy gas tters 30 The Capita Group Plc Now there are more registered engineers than ever before A 2006 review by the Health Unsafe gas work and appliances can seriously injure and kill.
Last year and Safety Executive identied alone, 310 people were injured in gas related incidents through res, a case for change to the explosions, gas leaks and carbon monoxide and 18 died.
In its 2006 CORGI scheme that had been review of gas safety, the Health and Safety Executive HSE found that registering gas installers since 45% of people were not fully aware of these risks.
In competitive tender, HSE to overhaul the gas registration scheme, appointing Capita to run Capita was appointed to a new register for gas engineers.
overhaul the scheme and The register went live in April 2009.
The trade welcomed the lower operate it for 10 years from registration fees, free promotional materials and strong technical April 2009. support including a free helpline.
By the year-end close to 61,000 rms and 126,000 engineers had signed-up: the highest levels So what have we achieved?
Created and promoted an award-winning new brand Building recognition of Gas Safe Register as the replacement for the Introduced new web IT to manage long-established CORGI scheme was a major challenge.
But strong registration promotion, clear branding and award-winning design ensured that Reduced costs for engineers within 6 months of launch Gas Safe was close to its target of 40% Set up new online and helpline unprompted brand recognition.
Consumers welcomed the new support for consumers and engineers Freefone service and website that helped them nd local engineers Sharpened the inspection regime and check their qualications and photos.
Attracted a record number of The HSE has praised our more rigorous inspection regime which registrations.
carries out more inspections, using a risk-weighted approach rather than letting engineers nominate their own work for inspection.
And reputable rms appreciate the way Capita has positioned Gas Safe Register as a campaigning brand that supports registered engineers and promotes gas safety.
As a recent ad campaign says: Gas and cowboys dont mix.
The Capita Group Plc 31 Philip Orrow... pays lower fees with more reductions to come is one of 126,000... can register and renew online at any time gas engineers who... can be found through the Gas Safe website now... has access to a free technical helpline
