Business review The Capita Group Plc 37 3.4 Rewarding performance and Diversity, inclusion and Creating successful recognising success human rights supplier relationships We recognise and reward the individual As a large employer operating in a Aim: to ensure that we select, procure performance of our employees, both number of countries, we believe that and manage our supply chain nancially and through our People our success is a direct result of the effectively to serve the needs of our Awards programme.
Remuneration experience and quality of our business and our clients well, and to packages across the Group are set at employees.
We believe this is best safeguard our values and reputation.
levels that keep us competitive in each achieved by developing our employees part of the business.
For our senior talents, whilst recognising their Progress: We have established robust people, responsible for the overall differences and benefiting from their procedures to carefully select and direction and performance of the unique skills.
Where possible we ensure manage our supply chain and ensure Group or its component parts, a that our workforce reects the good procurement practices across the significant element of their financial composition of the local community.
Our supplier relationships are reward is linked to the financial success managed at Group level and at a local Our equality and diversity policy sets of the Group.
level by procurement specialists in our out the behaviour we expect from our businesses.
We also manage some of We also offer our employees the employees to provide a workplace our clients supplier relationships.
opportunity to benefit from Capitas where people are treated fairly and success through our sharesave and equally, and are free from all forms of In 2009, our Group Procurement team ownership schemes.
We encourage all our revised our procurement policy and scheme had 11,042 participants, employees to complete an online framework, allowing us to consolidate with 32% of our eligible employees diversity training course.
Compulsory our expenditure, maximise our taking part.
completion of this training is required purchasing power and ensure that we in all our businesses regulated by the adhere to preferential terms and Financial Services Authority.
The policy states that when our employees are Our HR policies meet UK, European purchasing goods and services they and Indian employment law as well as act in compliance with our ethical international human rights legislation, standards and Corporate Responsibility including International Labour CR objectives.
Employee wellbeing We encourage our employees to have a good work-life balance and offer them the exibility to allow this.
Where possible we support part-time working, job sharing and exible working hours.
We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees and contractors.
More than 3,500 managers and Health and Safety advisers have attended the Groups Health and Safety management courses over the last 3 years, and specic training has been provided for any employees facing safety risks.
