Business review The Capita Group Plc 13 1.1 Setting our bid success rate against Maintaining selectivity Organic growth our bid pipeline provides a useful Procurement processes on major securing major contracts indicator of likely future sales growth.
bids, particularly in the public sector, Historically we have maintained a win and highly recurring may take up to 2 years to complete.
rate of 1 in 2: in 2009 this reduced business They can be costly in both time and slightly to 1 in 3 as we gained resources.
So we are highly selective important insight and started to Our organic growth is created in and disciplined throughout the bid establish key new relationships in 2 ways.
process, only bidding where we see new markets, such as defence.
realistic opportunity for a sensible The majority of our organic growth comes through securing high quality, working relationship that benets both Identifying new business recurring revenues from long term the client and the Group.
We look for: opportunities contracts delivering multiple, clients with whom we can build Behind our bid pipeline is an active integrated administration and a strong relationship and deliver prospect list of opportunities where customer services.
These contracts real benets the bidding process is underway but have been consistently increasing in clients whose operations or services we have yet to reach a shortlist or final length as clients seek longer lasting to be outsourced are primarily bidding stage.
This prospect list is in partnerships to deliver more complex turn supported by a list of suspects UK based service transformation: they currently relationships which we are nurturing to a dened bid process with clear average 9 years.
decision criteria We also seek single service business t with our core competencies We constantly identify areas of that rolls over annually, has a high in service transformation opportunity and potential clients repeat rate or is secured under medium across all our chosen markets.
to long term contracts of 2 to 7 years.
a fair risk reward balance We actively engage with potential limited requirement for capital The combination of long term clients to demonstrate the benets investment, unless there is a real contracts and recurrent business and added value that outsourcing value proposition for the Group ensures highly visible future revenues.
offers to their organisations and acceptable contractual obligations.
In 2009 our sales performance was If at any stage we feel that conditions satisfactory.
We secured and extended In the private sector we seek have shifted signicantly or that any of 15 major contracts with a total value out opportunities through these criteria are no longer met, we of 1bn 2008: 17 contracts totalling business intelligence and existing will, after detailed consultation, 1.24bn.
relationships: increasingly, we withdraw from the process.
It is are also approached directly by Alongside these contract wins our essential for us to pursue only those organisations.
The procurement pipeline is constantly replenished contracts that can both meet the process is determined by each reecting the quality of business clients expectations and generate individual client, often working opportunities across our markets.
In February 2010, our bid pipeline was 3.7bn Feb 2009: 3.1bn.
UK public sector contracts are subject to dened procurement processes.
We report on the pipeline twice a year EU policy requires fair and open in our half year and full year results.
competition and opportunities are It contains contracts of 10m or formally advertised and notied.
In above, where we have been shortlisted addition, under EU competition law, to the last 4 or fewer: all bids are public sector outsourcing contracts capped at 500m to prevent very large that are already in place must be individual contracts distorting offered for tender when the initial the total.
14 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 1.
Generating profitable growth 1.1 continued By delivering operational excellence Converting opportunities Securing appropriate pricing and adding value for our clients and and contract terms We manage procurements either their customers, we achieve high client centrally or at business level, Our major contracts are long term retention rates.
In our 26 years of depending on the size and complexity commitments.
It is therefore essential operation we have only failed to renew of the opportunity.
Our major sales to get our pricing and contract terms 3 of our material contracts dened team pursues complex, long term correct from the start, to deliver value as generating more than 1% of the contracts.
It can draw on the resources to both the Group and our clients.
The most of the whole Group to tailor solutions recent of these contracts was the To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly to each clients requirements.
London congestion charging scheme, separate responsibilities: which ended in November 2009.
Sales teams in each business unit of sales teams: client relationships each division pursue smaller or less We have no material contracts due for sales support teams: pricing and complex contracts, usually focused renewal in 2010 and 2011, 2 rebids in risk models on a single service.
Where these are 2012 and none in the following 2 years.
worth over 10m, the major sales Group Board: solution and pricing We aim not just to keep our team may provide extra support.
relationships, but also where possible We undertake extensive due diligence to grow them through supporting Retaining and expanding contracts to build detailed service, risk and further areas of our clients operations.
As well as securing new business from pricing models.
We often share these Impending rebids of existing new clients, we work to renew or openly with our prospective clients to material contracts expand existing client relationships.
ensure that all our assumptions for Year Contract Value per annum m We concentrate on generating client delivering successfully on the project satisfaction by meeting expectations 2010 None are robust and that the benets and delivering value.
generated to both parties are fully 2011 None understood.
2012 TV Licensing 50 We agree detailed service standards Criminal and key performance indicators to Our contract price is generally made Records Bureau 40 measure progress and improvements.
up of a base cost that covers the 2013 None On our largest contracts, strategic transformation and normal running 2014 None partnership boards help both parties costs of the service.
Where demand on National Strategies contract is due to end 31 March 2011 understand each others needs better.
the service infrastructure uctuates, and will not be re-tendered.
As a result, clients nd that outsourcing the pricing will include a variable Dened as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue.
Revenues per annum as per original contract values.
gives them more control over support volume-related element.
All contracts operations, not less.
include a related basket of indices that reect the cost elements of the service such as wage ination and RPI.
Our track record in pricing contracts correctly enables us to offer clients sensible and realistic proposals while robustly managing and mitigating risk.
Once agreed, the terms of our contracts are xed.
This means we have a good view of stable, long term contracted revenues.
National Outsourcing Awards 2009 Contact Centre Provider of the year for our Pearl life and pensions operation in Glasgow.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 15 Major new contracts and extensions secured in 2009 Total value: 1bn, 15 contracts 2008: 1.24bn, 17 contracts NEW NEW NEW NEW AXA Sun Life Breckland Council Learning and Skills Ofce for Council LSC National Statistics ONS Value: 523m Value: 40m Value: 68m Value: 25m 15 years 15 years 4 years 2.5 years Service commencement: June 2009 Service commencement: June 2009 Contract commencement: May 2009 Service commencement: March 2009 Division: Life & Pensions Services Division: Integrated Services Division: Integrated Services Division: Integrated Services To administer 3.2 million mature To provide planning and building To administer a range of To recruit, train and administer life and pensions policies including control services to the Council allowances to support learners, the pay of all temporary ONS customer servicing, policy and create a new Capita Symonds including the Education workers who will work as eld administration, claims activity business unit based at the Maintenance Allowance and staff for the 2011 Census of and related IT support.
Population and Housing in England and Wales.
EXTENSION NEW NEW NEW Department for BBC Audience NHS Business Becta Children, Schools Services Services Authority Home Access and Families DCSF NHS BSA Programme Value: 64m Value: c. 45m Value: 100m Value: 15.7m 1 year 9 years 7 years 17 months Contract commencement: March 2010 Contract commencement: August 2009 Service commencement: July 2010 Service commencement: October 2009 Division: Professional Services Division: Integrated Services Division: ICT, Health & Business Services Division: Integrated Services National Strategies contract Awarded new contract to handle To provide processing and To manage grant marketing extended from end of March 2010 viewers and listeners complaints, payments of 40 million dental and administration for the to 31 March 2011.
Following this, comments and enquiries via claims and a managed IT service Governments Home Access National Strategies is being phone calls, emails, SMS and to support the Authority, its programme, which provides discontinued by Government.
Also to provide action lines current portfolio of activities computers and internet for issue-related programming, and future growth.
connectivity to low-income audience management and families to support learning.
8 contracts and renewals worth between 10m and 50m secured with an aggregate value of 159m
