Business review The Capita Group Plc 39 3.6 Through the work we have completed through initiatives led by the Group Supporting the we are positioned well to respond to or individual businesses.
The Group communities in which the introduction of the new Carbon funds and organises a central Reduction Commitment CRC volunteering programme facilitating we work regulations, operational from April volunteering that is appropriate to Aim: to support the communities in 2010.
We have achieved the Carbon each local communitys needs.
As a responsible Trust Standard for 2 of our divisions We also support the development of business we engage with our local assuring us a good ranking in the young people in our local communities communities, allowing us to maximise league table in the first phase of the by being involved in projects such as the benets and understand and CRC.
We are also installing automatic the Work Inspiration campaign and manage any negative impacts of meter reading AMR over the next Backing Young Britain.
2 years to track performance against the AMR metric of CRC.
Progress: We use the London Charitable support Benchmarking Group LBG Resources and waste management We support the efforts of our methodology to capture and value as employees in raising funds for much of our community investment As a largely ofce based business our numerous charities by providing a data as possible.
However, with such focus is primarily to use resources central payroll giving service, a a diverse and constantly growing efficiently and reduce our waste and, matched funding scheme and business the extent of data capture is secondly, to focus on re-using and promotion of their initiatives across limited.
In 2009, we estimate that our recycling materials.
The reduction of the Group via our employee intranet.
total community investment was our paper use is key to this so we focus In 2009, our corporate donations 1.4m 2008: 1.2m.
on designing and implementing totalled 0.5m.
services which reduce the need to Community investment produce printed materials.
Where We support one Group charity partner to benefit from Group-wide fundraising waste must be disposed of we ensure Our community investment activities.
In 2008, our employees that this is done safely, and in programme aims to tackle exclusion compliance with all legislation.
We chose to support Macmillan Cancer of all kinds.
We donate our time, skills Support.
In 2009, our employees raised work with our suppliers to help us and money to local community 440,000 for Macmillan, taking our reduce our impacts through the initiatives, supporting projects that total to 800,000 towards our target introduction of environmentally directly benefit the communities in responsible products.
We also focus on of raising 1 million.
We helped to which we work.
generate a further 152,000 for the logistics of delivering goods, both In 2009, we reviewed our community Macmillan through fully sponsoring to reduce costs and emissions.
investment programme, streamlining the charitys Winter Ball.
our approach to align with our CR and Our peoples efforts are recognised business strategy and allowing us to and celebrated through our employee direct our efforts more effectively.
recognition awards, which include an We introduced a framework basing award for charitable support and our activities around 3 themes: community engagement.
education, social exclusion and health.
Our programme is applied at 2 levels: Community Hub Award Winner Catalyst Lend Lease, Burnley Campus, Lancashire.
Capita Symonds was lead consultant and delivered multiple services on this project 40 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 3.
Delivering business responsibly Aim Progress CR priorities 2009 2008 Environment Continue to measure and manage our carbon footprint tonnes CO annually.
79,212 73,057 2 CO emissions rose by 8.4% against increases in Group turnover of 10% 2 Raise awareness of environmental issues and Group initiatives across the business Enhanced CR section Introduced CR section on new intranet on intranet Undertake environmental site audits twice a year Audits completed Audits completed Achieve reductions in energy used across the Group.
Set target of 12% reduction at our 28% 18.3% largest sites by end of 2008.
Target exceeded and focus on further reductions across the largest sites and rolling out our energy programme across the Group Continue switching eet vehicles to diesel engines 98.4% 98.4% Achieve further ISO 14001 accreditations at our higher impact sites 45 47 Further promote BT conference call facility.
116,000 78,000 conference calls conference calls Communities Continue to measure and grow our total community investment annually, using London 1.4m 1.2m Benchmarking Group LBG methodology Corporate donations to support our charity partner, employee fundraising and disaster appeals 0.5m 0.6m Raise meaningful sums for our corporate charity.
In April 2008 we set a target to raise raised 440k raised 360k 1m over 2 years for our corporate charity, Macmillan Cancer Support.
In 2009 we raised 440k, taking our total to 800k towards our target of 1m.
Health and safety Ensure we provide safe and productive working environment for all our employees 1.65 1.57 accident frequency rate per 1,000 employees RIDDOR Undertake health and safety audits twice a year.
Audits completed Audits completed Senior management Attract and retain the appropriate level of senior management to drive the strategic 88% 88% retention direction of the Group salaries exceeding 90k p. a..
Overall employee Attract and retain the right people to deliver the Group strategy, maintaining employee 84% 82% 1 retention retention at industry average 2009: 84.3%, 2008: 82.7%.
Employees Have at least 10% of our workforce in India by end of 2009.
10% 9% by location Employee diversity Reect the communities in which we work: Male female split 52% male 48% female 52% male 48% female Male female split for management salaries 50k 89k p. a.
74% male 26% female 74% male 26% female Male female split for management salaries exceeding 90k p. a.
88% male 12% female 88% male 12% female Ethnic diversity employees from ethnic minority groups.
5% 15.5% Part-time working Provide exible working hours while ensuring maximum exibility in Group resources.
15% 15.50% Percentage of part-time employees of total workforce.
Creating successful Annually audit all tier 1 suppliers against Capitas standards of business 100% 100% supplier relationships Consistently increase the number of supplier audits across all our Group suppliers.
50% 41% audited audited Full details of our CR priorities, initiatives and progress are set out on our corporate website at www.
Based on latest available greenhouse gas emission factors from Defra.
We have reviewed our calculation methods, and to ensure year on year comparisons our 2008 carbon footprint has been restated Reduction due to contracts ending at 2 accredited sites Slight increase as a direct result of the expansion of our eld operations 1 CIPD 2008 and 2009.
The Capita Group Plc 41 Case study 1 Case study 3 Nottingham wants to make its schools safe, inspiring and fun 42 The Capita Group Plc Big Woods students and teachers cant believe its the same place Capita Symonds, our property How can you help school students truly reach their potential?
consultancy business, is part of Try improving their learning environment.
The Governments Building the inspiredspaces consortium Schools for the Future BSF programme aims to improve the life that is playing a key role in chances of 3.3 million children by making school buildings more Nottingham City Councils effective places in which to learn and teach.
Building Schools for the Future In Nottingham, for example, we are using our expertise in architecture BSF programme.
to change the way education is delivered.
At Big Wood School we have In the first wave of this 208m created 4 learning clusters for the principal subject areas.
They share programme in Nottingham, a central courtyard and amphitheatre, and each also has its own we are helping to create 8 outdoor learning space including an area of natural habitat for inspiring new schools through science and humanities.
a combination of new build, In place of cellular classrooms linked by corridors, a exible suite of refurbishment and remodelling.
rooms and breakout spaces adapts to make formal or informal study So what did we do?
There are standard-sized Strategic advice classrooms too with sliding dividers so they can be combined.
Educational consultancy These diverse and agile spaces result from consultations with Building design managers, teachers and pupils.
They are allowing teachers to take a Architectural services more imaginative approach to timetabling, bringing departments Engineering services together and developing collaborative learning that explores the Project management.
Teachers are enjoying the chance to rethink what they do, and to vary the pattern of teaching in 60-minute blocks.
Its a journey theyve only just begun.
But already they are reporting improved behaviours and higher aspirations among their pupils.
Which is exactly what BSF set out to achieve.
Our architects... bright and modern call it a diverse... open and safe spatial experience.... grown up not too young or old The students... got lots of space say its... given us different areas to work in... a place we like
