Business review The Capita Group Plc 23 2.1 The Board is responsible for Monthly operational business MOB Maintaining strong establishing, maintaining and reviewing reviews focus on the performance of structure and control the Groups growth strategy, financial each business unit in each division.
performance, systems of internal Management teams assess each units Our management structure and control and Group-wide policies.
performance against plan and discuss business reporting process promote See pages 70 to 78. its ongoing development, determining accountability and knowledge sharing how planned targets will be met.
These across the Group, keeping management The Chief Operating officer and the are forums to share knowledge and responsive to performance and trends Divisional Directors are responsible identify challenges early, develop in the business and the wider for the development and performance tactics, reallocate resources and refresh marketplace.
Board Executive Directors communicate and monitor the In 2009, the Board comprised attend divisional MOBs, ensuring they application of Group-wide business a Non-Executive Chairman, 3 have a detailed knowledge of the objectives, policies, procedures and Non-Executive Directors progress of the divisions and a monthly standards.
They work with and delegate and 5 Executive Directors view of actual and anticipated responsibility to their management Chief Executive, Group Finance performance against business plans.
Director, Chief Operating officer, Business Development Director Each of our business units prepares a and a part-time Executive Director.
This includes monthly revenue and From 1 March 2010, the Board cost forecasts for the year ahead, comprises a Non-Executive taking into account new service and Chairman, 3 Non-Executive product developments and changes Directors and 4 Executive Directors.
The We are actively seeking to recruit business units financial plans feed further Non-Executive Directors.
into the Group financial model.
Our management and governance structure Group Board Independent governance Non-Executive Chairman 3 x Non-Executive Directors Group Audit & Remuneration Committees 4 x Executive Directors: External Auditors Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Operating officer Business Development Director Monthly Operational Business MOB reviews Board Executive Directors Divisional Directors Internal governance Divisional Management teams Group Compliance Group Risk and Business Assurance Risk committees Business units As of 1 March 2010
