34 34 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 3.
Delivering business responsibly 3.2 Sharing scale benets Blended service delivery Building scale and Our substantial scale and broad Our infrastructure allows us to offer capacity and optimising capability enables us to put forward clients an onshore offshore delivery our infrastructure compelling propositions to clients model structured to meet their and underpin the winning of major individual needs.
By combining Aim: to have the right resources in integrated service transformation onshore and offshore resources we can place, both in terms of infrastructure contracts.
deliver maximum service exibility, and people, to satisfy clients that quality and cost effectiveness.
Our we have the operational scale and The delivery of progressively larger comprehensive security and quality capability to deliver our promises.
contracts, with common processes and assurance systems ensure consistent substantial numbers of transferring Progress: We have built up an service quality across the entire employees, fuels the growth of our extensive operational infrastructure infrastructure.
As we and a depth of capabilities which increase scale, we are able to deliver enable us to fully support our clients, Offshore operations more services and contracts through provide exible operating models and We established our offshore shared ICT platforms and operating share economies of scale.
operations in India in 2004 and they structures, providing greater benets We continuously assess the needs play an increasingly important role in to clients.
They benefit not only from of each business unit to ensure our business and long term growth cost efficiencies but also from greater that we have the necessary people, strategy.
Capita India is fully integrated access to specialist skills and exible infrastructure and resources for current into the Group and operates like any service delivery models.
Each month other Capita business with the same Our business centres, where we are we review comprehensive operational values, technical infrastructure and able to run a broad range of shared management information through the operating model.
It continues to services, form a central part of our MOB review process see page 23. develop strongly both in scale and service delivery infrastructure.
They are This enables us to manage our scope of services and is a compelling also excellent reference sites, allowing resources in a way that meets the proposition when offered as part of potential clients to see operations first needs of our clients and delivers many of our bids.
It also plays an hand and to speak with employees our key financial targets.
increasing role in supporting Group who have transferred to Capita from businesses and Group support Wherever possible, we will migrate and client organisations.
integrate systems, share resources and 2009, we had 62 business centres rationalise premises to optimise our We now have 3 sites in Mumbai, onshore in the UK, nearshore in Ireland, infrastructure while maintaining and 1 site in Pune and a new operation in the Channel Islands and Europe, and enhancing services.
These sites are specialist offshore in India.
taken significant steps forward in this centres, delivering services to multiple ongoing process, particularly across clients or providing multiple services our Life & Pensions business.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 35 The sites share a combined By responsibly managing our clients Adding value and management team to ensure they services we ensure that we adhere protecting our clients all benefit from their collective skills.
to any legal requirements regarding Alongside helping our clients to We proactively recruit from the highly data protection and information function more efficiently and cost skilled graduate workforce that is security.
We have robust policies effectively, we are continuously looking available in these locations.
Their skills, and procedures governing data to enhance operations to ensure that knowledge and excellent work ethic security, which include policies, user their customers receive appropriate help us meet our objectives of guidance, online training and incident and exible services.
We do this delivering a first class service to our procedures.
It is mandatory for all through improving business processes, clients.
Capita is widely regarded in Capita employees to complete increasing customer choice and India as a first class employer who will information security, data protection accessibility and looking for encourage and help employees grow and fraud awareness training every opportunities to apply innovation.
Our employee vetting policy The wider benets of our efforts for benefit from being able to attract and applies to all our employees, including our clients extend to the public and retain a highly skilled and professional contractors and temporary employees.
local communities where we operate.
Where our clients have any particular risks in their business we work with At the end of 2009, our Indian them to address their requirements.
operations represented approximately 10% of our overall headcount and delivered significant growth in profits.
Business centre network Onshore: UK Nearshore: Ireland, Offshore: India Channel Islands, Europe Core client marketplace Additional tax jurisdictions to Quality, cost effective offshore support clients products service delivery 52 business centres 5 business centres 5 business centres Back ofce administration Customer services Data validation and entry Customer services Life and pensions administration Claims and policy administration Life and pensions Financial services Fund management administration IT and software Corporate registrars Accounting and finance processing Resourcing and training Loan administration Payroll processing and HR Services Share registration Property consultancy Property consultancy Electronic document processing Claims and policy administration HR administration
