Accounts The Capita Group Plc 111 24 Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts The Group uses finance leases and hire purchase contracts to acquire plant and machinery.
These leases have terms of renewal and purchase options but no escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the lessee.
The value of future minimum lease payments and their present value, which are the same, is analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m Not later than 1 year 0.1 Later than 1 year but not more than 5 years 1.3 1.4 Operating lease agreements where the Group is lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of plant and machinery.
These leases have an average duration of between 3 and 10 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Not later than 1 year 59.3 59.2 Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 128.5 158.0 Later than 5 years 53.9 23.0 241.7 240.2 25 Provisions Insurance Property Arch cru Other Total provision provision m m m m m At 1 January 2009 3.3 3.3 Transfer from accruals in the year 3.0 3.0 Transfer from other payables in the year 14.2 14.2 Utilisation 0.6 0.6 Additional provisions in the year 0.8 2.4 20.0 2.6 25.8 Provisions acquired 2.2 2.2 Unwinding of interest on discounted provisions 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 15.0 7.4 20.0 5.6 48.0 Certain liabilities previously held within accruals and other payables have been reclassified as provisions as it is considered that the classification is more appropriate given the nature of the balances.
The property provision is made on a discounted basis for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
The expectation is that this expenditure will be incurred over the remaining periods of the leases which range from 1 to 6 years.
Arch cru Funds dealings in 2 open ended investment companies OEICs, for which Capita Financial Managers CFM is the authorised corporate director ACD and Arch Financial Products LLP was the delegated investment manager, were suspended on 13 March 2009, as a result of illiquidity in the underlying investments of the OEICs and an anticipated inability to meet future redemptions.
This was exacerbated by unprecedented market turmoil post the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Since the suspension, CFM, has been working with specialist advisers to conduct a detailed review of the underlying assets of the OEICs and options for their future.
This review was completed in December 2009.
The underlying assets of the OEICs have fallen in value and remain illiquid.
CFM has advised investors that the only feasible option in the best interests of investors as a whole is for the OEICs to be wound up, with the underlying assets being realised in an orderly manner over a period of time, and the proceeds being returned to investors in the OEICs.
In addition, CFM has informed investors in the OEICs that it is undertaking a review to determine whether such investors have suffered any detriment and, if so, to what extent any of the parties involved should be responsible for compensating them.
This is a complex exercise and it is taking longer than anticipated, but we are determined to ensure that the matter is concluded in a way that takes appropriate account of the results of the review and the interests of investors in the OEICs, but also recognises the interests of Capitas shareholders.
The detailed work undertaken since March 2009 has resulted in significant costs.
We have provided estimated costs of 20m in respect of resolving this matter.
This figure has been disclosed separately from the Group's underlying profit in our accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
It is expected that an outcome will be reached in 2010.
Insurance provisions relate to provisions held by the Groups captive insurer.
Such provisions are held until utilised or such time as further claims are considered unlikely under the respective insurance policies.
26 Financial instruments Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial instruments are comprised of cash, bank loans, bond issues, loan notes, finance leases and derivatives.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations and to manage the Groups financial risks.
The Group also has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions.
These are interest rate swaps, currency swaps, callable interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
Their purpose is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
