Business review The Capita Gr The Capita Group oup Plc Plc 59 59 5.1 5.2 5.3 Alignment with An individual A exible divisional Group strategy business focus operating structure We maintain a straightforward, With an objective of achieving We have created a pragmatic, exible pragmatic divisional structure that continuous growth and strong structure which is regularly refreshed delivers our Group strategy.
performance, each business undertakes as the Group develops.
We move appropriate strategies to achieve or businesses, contracts and managers The operating divisions and the maintain market leading positions.
across the divisions to ensure the best businesses within them are aligned match of leadership and resources as with the Groups overall objectives and Research and development initiatives the Group grows.
They all follow the Group underpin the constant development benefit from the powerful combination strategy of securing strong, sustainable of products and services to meet the of individual focus and the ability to growth, both organically and by current and future needs of clients.
reach out across the Group to share acquiring complementary businesses Businesses adopt the most appropriate operational skills and resources, benefit which allow them to strengthen marketing and sales activities to from economies of scale, create and their position in their respective address the characteristics of their deploy innovation, and harness the marketplaces or add new and individual marketplaces.
Each business best of ICT and business processes.
complementary skills to their also maintains strict disciplines on cost current operations.
control and seeks to streamline Many of our contracts draw on processes where appropriate.
expertise and resources from across The divisional structure supports a number of Group businesses.
a robust, individual focus for each The success of our business and service We have established robust models business while providing ready access focus is acknowledged through the of collaborative working with clear to the Groups wider resources, breadth and number of industry lines of responsibility, consistent expertise and economies of scale.
awards and accreditations we attain.
communication and reporting to offer We have also helped many of our Each business produces its own a seamless approach to our clients.
clients win awards through our role in annual business plan outlining specic delivering improvements in operations We are currently organised into strategies and considerations and and services.
Examples of these awards 5 operating divisions, plus a Group setting performance targets for the are set out throughout this report.
The business units operating division brings together financial plans feed into the Group activities with similar operating models financial model.
Each major contract is The MOB review process ensures managed within the division which regular monitoring and reporting of best meets its operational, regulatory performance against targets and is an and management requirements.
effective forum for planning ahead, To provide greater transparency we solving issues and sharing expertise report financial progress for 8 business and support.
See page 23. segments, splitting Insurance & Investor Services into 2 segments and Integrated Services into 3 segments.
Group-wide support services, such as finance, legal and commercial, property management, procurement, health and safety and environment and HR, report directly to Board Executive Directors to ensure robust control, consistent standards and shared benets across the Group.
