Accounts The Capita Group Plc 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 24 February 2010.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 58 to 64.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Underlying profit The Group separately presents amortisation, the movement in the mark to market valuation of certain financial instruments and specific non-recurring items in the income statement which, in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement of defined benefit obligations and provisions.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and thus requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 16.
Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 32. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 127-137. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and the pension assets and liabilities have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new amendments to IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation Improvements to IFRSs 2008 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
