Accounts The Capita Group Plc 93 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued f Service contracts i Brownfield outsourcing contracts A brownfield contract is one where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
For brownfield contracts all costs incurred prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents fee income in respect of services provided.
ii Greenfield outsourcing contracts A greenfield contract is one in which an entirely new service is being established for a client.
For these contracts no profit is recognised until service delivery commences and is being invoiced.
Upon commencement, revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of services provided.
Direct incremental costs incurred on the contract prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the contract, excluding any overheads, are included in prepayments and amortised over the life of the contract.
On some contracts, non-refundable payments are received, prior to full service commencement, on the achievement of agreed contract delivery milestones.
These are recognised as revenue when earned.
iii Property consultancy and transformation contracts Revenue represents the sales value of work done in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year-end.
Profits are recognised on long term contracts where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
In calculating this, the percentage of completion method is used based on the proportion of costs incurred to the total estimated cost.
Cost includes direct staff costs and outlays.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately such losses are forecast.
In respect of construction contracts, gross amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
g Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro, Indian rupee, Malaysian ringgit, and the South Korean won.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
h Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and equipment 3 10 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year in which the item is derecognised.
i Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The Group will capitalise borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction commences on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs relating to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009.
