16 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 1.
Generating profitable growth 1.1 continued 1.2 We maintain open and honest Maintaining a strong Acquisitions discussions with our clients, which competitive position stimulating growth allow us to develop a detailed Outsourcing has evolved rapidly understanding of their business and Acquisitions have consistently played from delivering cost driven, single challenges.
We respond to clients a key role in stimulating our growth.
service solutions to creating long term, specified requirements but always seek We continuously look to acquire niche multi-service partnerships focused on to propose alternative service models businesses that will help us to enter business transformation and added that deliver even greater benets.
new markets where we can grow value.
Many of our clients regard us organically, strengthen existing Our clients are highly selective.
as an integral part of their business.
capabilities and market positions and Increasingly, they seek outsourcing Cost efficiency remains an important build economies of scale, or access a partners who have not just the reason for outsourcing, but it is new client base.
expertise and capacity to support equally important to consider how them but also the financial strength outsourcing can add more value to Adding value through and stability essential to building a clients operations and help them to acquisitions in 2009 long term partnership.
We, too, must increase effectiveness and maintain be selective and we undertake detailed competitiveness.
In 2009, we spent 177.5m on due diligence of potential clients.
Our pipeline of We are the clear market leader in BPO potential acquisitions is healthy and Capitas strong balance sheet and in the UK, with an excellent track in the first 2 months of 2010 we spent cash ow reassure clients that their record of service delivery and a strong a further 16.8m on 2 acquisitions.
service is in the hands of a stable set of satisfied client referees.
We have We continue to be selective and partner.
Our proven record of strong consistently led and helped shape the remain disciplined when assessing governance and ethical, socially market by developing our outsourcing opportunities.
responsible behaviour is also a offering.
Together, these Our knowledge and skill base and elements clearly differentiate us extensive operational and technical from competitors and are significant infrastructure is unrivalled.
As a UK barriers to entry for new participants based business serving an almost in all our markets.
exclusively UK based clientele, we have a detailed knowledge of our market: and our management team is highly accessible and swift to respond to our clients needs.
Organic growth Identify quality new business opportunities to expand and maintain a buoyant bid pipeline Continue addressing opportunities selectively Continue to explore new market segments where we can add value, such as health and defence Maintain bid process disciplines to secure appropriate pricing and contract terms Maintain focus on retaining and expanding existing contracts.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 17 Acquisitions in 2009 Total spent: 177.5m on 12 acquisitions 2008: 147.4m on 12 acquisitions Trust administration Health services Insurance services Health services FMS CHKS Hero Insurance NHS membership Services Services Value: 2m Value: 11.6m Value: 15m Value: 2m 1.1m deferred consideration Division: ICT, Health & Business Services Division: Insurance & Investor Services Division: ICT, Health & Business Services Division: Insurance & Investor Services Provides healthcare intelligence Acquired from LV formerly Provides membership services and Trust administration company and quality improvement services Liverpool Victoria.
A personal engagement programmes for over based in the Netherlands.
lines broker offering insurance 50 NHS trusts.
Over 90 NHS trusts as clients.
for cars, motorbikes, homes and commercial vehicles.
Property services Financial services Property services IT services MMB Capmark Services Andrew Martin Carillion IT Europe Associates Services Value: 4.85m Value: 10m Value: 2.25m Value: 36m Division: Integrated Services Division: Insurance & Investor Services 4m deferred consideration Division: ICT, Health & Business Services Division: Integrated Services A specialist in the development, Provides administration services The external IT services business Employs 40 chartered town implementation, operation and for securitsations, commercial of Carillion plc, Carillion IT planners, urban designers, management of Intelligent mortgages, commercial property Services, offers outsourcing, landscape designers and Transport Systems on the UK loans and asset managers.
managed services and network environmental planners offering motorway and trunk road network.
advice on a wide range of planning, development, regeneration and environmental matters.
Life and pensions Trust administration Property services IT services Gissings Consultancy Fidei Multi-Tech Synetrix Services Value: 9m Value: 5.3m Value: 4.4m Value: 75m Division: Life & Pensions Services 5.7m deferred consideration 4.75m deferred consideration Net of cash acquired Division: Insurance & Investor Services Division: Integrated Services Division: ICT, Health & Business Services Provides actuarial, advisory, Trust administration company Engineering consultancy which Specialises in the design, investment and administration based in Luxembourg.
specialises in engineering, development, integration and services for UK pension plans and design and project management deployment of converged is also a leading player in the services to the chemical, food, networks, hosted application advisory market for the buyout petrochemical, energy, recycling solutions, managed security of pension liabilities.
18 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 1.
Generating profitable growth 1.2 continued Selecting appropriate acquisitions Rigorous selection Smooth integration criteria and pricing of acquisitions We focus on acquiring small to medium sized businesses that bring Potential acquisitions are identied We have substantial experience of complementary skills and services and and brought to the Group by external successfully integrating acquired strengthen our position in our target consultants, people in our businesses, businesses and achieving synergies markets or expand our current reach.
We are highly with our existing operations.
Stringent Expanding our presence through selective and due diligence is due diligence, before and after subsequent acquisitions and contract undertaken at both Group and business acquisition, enables us to set clear wins creates significant scale benets.
All acquisitions are assessed, targets for growth, integration benets priced and agreed by the Group Board.
A dedicated project team To stimulate growth we generally seek manages the transition bringing target acquisitions that: We tend to select acquisition targets financial procedures, information and that are: have operations and customers in the communications technology ICT, HR, UK and or Ireland privately owned legal, compliance and marketing quickly into line with our standards.
t with our strategy and core too small to interest the private Acquiring only small to medium sized competencies equity market businesses enables us to integrate generate sustainable, quality revenues.
not in an auction we aim to acquire them into our existing business without competition infrastructure efficiently and allows attractively priced, with scope to add us to generate value faster.
This disciplined approach enables us to negotiate sensible purchase prices and terms, so generating good returns for the Group.
Acquisitions Continue to encourage businesses to identify suitable acquisitions Select acquisitions that complement or grow our business offering Maintain rigorous criteria for selecting targets Maintain stringent disciplines regarding pricing Continue to enhance integration process.
The Capita Group Plc 19 Case study 1 Case study 1 Case study 1 The NHS wanted to help citizens make informed choices more cost effectively 20 The Capita Group Plc Now NHS Choices informs and empowers 7m citizens a month NHS Choices is helping to In 2008, Capita took on NHS Choices, a health information website improve the nations health, with big ambitions.
Our 3 year mission: develop it into the health enabling people to take care of services digital front door in England, while reducing costs.
themselves, giving them reliable Providing information is not an end in itself.
The Department of information on conditions and Health wants the website to encourage and help people to take treatments, allowing them to responsibility for their health, reducing the burdens on the NHS.
make informed choices about So a primary goal is to attract more visitors, empowering them to their care and engaging them make health decisions by providing them with content, interactive in raising standards.
tools and videos in order to become better informed and take control of their health and wellbeing.
Focusing on customers Our target of 7 million visits a month by 2011 looked stretching.
Bringing new creativity But by ensuring we are delivering a robust service and expanding Providing a ow of high-quality the websites usefulness imaginatively we achieved it 2 years early.
new content Visits doubled within 12 months.
In October 2009 the website Increasing NHS Choices market share: attracted 9.5 million visitors and the 2009 average was 7.2 million.
doubled in a year By 2011 we are now targeting at least 11.7 million and we have a Partnering with NHS trusts, providing programme of technology refresh and enhancement to ensure syndicated content for their local sites continuous improvement.
Meanwhile, we are eliminating duplication Providing content to Boots, Google, AOL, of effort and cost elsewhere by providing syndicated content for Yell and others to reach more people.
NHS Choices is helping to transform the delivery of health and social care, making it more patient centred and accessible.
And the ow is two-way: as well as providing authoritative information on conditions, treatments and services, it enables citizens to rate their experiences.
Hospitals are making improvements in response to patient comments on the website, and we are seeing a similar impact on GP practices since the comment facility was extended to cover them in 2009.
As well as giving patients choice, its giving them a voice.
The Capita Group Plc 21 Anywhere, anytime,... nd out what others say about her local Zoe Thomas now just GP surgery needs her laptop to... check her symptoms... nd an NHS dentist... monitor her pregnancy using online tools
