128 The Capita Group Plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounts comply with the following new Financial Reporting Standards and Urgent Issues Task Force abstracts issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board ASB.
Adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial position of the Company although in some instances they did give rise to additional disclosures.
Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards 2008 In May 2008 the International Accounting Standards Board issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
These amendments were adopted by the ASB and issued in December 2008.
The adoption of these amendments, which are effective from 1 January 2009, did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Company.
Amendments to FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures This standard was amended to reflect international accounting developments and UK legal changes introduced by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The definition of a related party has been amended and an exemption is only allowed for transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary undertaking that is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
Amendments to FRS 29: Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments The amended standard requires additional disclosure about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three level hierarchy for each class of financial instrument.
In addition, a reconciliation between the opening and closing balance for Level 3 fair value measurements is now required, as well as significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures.
This has had no effect on the financial statements of the Company as the Company takes advantage of the exemption allowed by paragraph 2D b of FRS 29 not to make these disclosures in its own entitys financial statements as the consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures for the Group.
Amendments to UITF Abstract 42 IFRIC 9 : Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and FRS 26 IAS 39 : Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Embedded Derivatives These amendments have been issued to ensure that the UK standards are kept in line with the equivalent IFRSs and IFRICs.
UITF Abstract 46 IFRIC 16 : Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation This has the effect of implementing the International Accounting Standards Boards IFRIC 16 into UK GAAP.
It provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify for hedge accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within the Group the hedging instruments can be held in the hedge of a net investment and how an entity should determine the amount of foreign currency gain or loss, relating to both the net investment and the hedging instrument, to be recycled on disposal of the net investment.
The Company has no hedges of net investments in foreign operations and consequently the adoption of this interpretation did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Company.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. b Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3 10 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 4 5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease c Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying value of fixed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
d Pension schemes The Company maintains a number of contracted-out defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Company.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the Company, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
e Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
