38 The Capita Group Plc Achieving our goal through a clear business strategy 3.
Delivering business responsibly 3.4 continued 3.5 Assessing and supporting our Energy use and business travel Controlling our suppliers and subcontractors We are committed to playing our part environmental impacts in tackling carbon emissions.
We have Capita has in excess of 15,000 Aim: as a service business our direct published our carbon footprint suppliers, classied into one of 3 environmental impacts are not broad, annually since 2005.
In 2009, our total clearly dened categories based on but due to the scale of our business our footprint was 79,212 tonnes, an whether they provide products or impacts need to be managed well.
increase of 8.4% over 2008 73,057 services to the whole Group, individual tonnes, while our Group revenues businesses or contracts.
25 strategic We have identied our main increased by 10%.
In particular, suppliers provide services worth Group-wide environmental impacts as: emissions from business travel and use 130m across the whole Group and energy use and business travel of electricity have increased across our their contracts are negotiated centrally resource use and waste management fast growing operations in India.
by the Group Procurement team.
We commenced an energy reduction All our suppliers are required to Progress: We have an environmental programme in 2006 and committed to undergo our supplier assessment management system in place based on use 12% less energy at our largest sites process.
We also evaluate their supply the ISO14001 standard which allows by the end of 2008, a target we chains.
Our rigorous selection and us to monitor and manage our impacts exceeded.
In 2009, we made a further continuous review process ensures and continually improve our 11.9% saving and a 28% saving in total their business and the products and performance in these areas.
Our since the programme began, a CO services they provide are compliant 2 environmental policy sets out our emissions reduction of 4,400 tonnes.
with all relevant policies and guidelines commitment to complying with We have continued to increase the and enables us to choose suppliers who relevant environmental legislation and energy efficiency of our operations, reect our values and standards.
expanding our energy reduction plan We provide all suppliers the across a further 80 sites.
opportunity to work with us and are Despite a greater focus on controlling committed to removing any barriers to business travel, our business travel entry for SMEs and minority owned emissions grew by 10% compared to companies in trading with us.
the previous year, even though we When we work with subcontractors increased the use of conference calls.
they are also required to meet our In 2010, we will launch a targeted stringent criteria.
We have a campaign to reduce our business travel subcontracting policy and a dedicated emissions through further raising resource within our Group employee awareness.
Procurement team who checks that they work within our framework.
