214413 RIT R&A pp89-pp94 6 3 09 2:35 PM Page 91 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 91 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of RIT Capital Partners plc will be held at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5HS on Thursday 23 July 2009 at 11.00 a. m. The meeting will be held for the following purposes: Ordinary Business As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, each of which is proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1.
To approve the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2009: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 7.5p per ordinary share: 4.
To re-elect Charles Bailey as a Director: 5.
To re-elect Sandra Robertson as a Director: 6.
To re-elect Ian Wace as a Director: and 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution: 8.
THAT a the authority conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 and 30 September 2010 AND THAT such authority shall for that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 51,488,687:.
b the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the 1985 Act comprising equity securities as defined in the 1985 Act up to a further nominal amount of 51,488,687 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: such authority to expire on whichever is the earlier of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 and 30 September 2010, but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require relevant securities to be allotted after the authority ends.
For the purposes of this Resolution rights issue means an offer to: a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, to subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable letter or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period before payment for the securities is due, but subject in both cases, to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 9.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 above: a the power conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 and 30 September 2010: b the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the 1985 Act wholly for cash: pursuant to the authority given by paragraph b of Resolution 8 above in connection with a rights issue as if Section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply to such allotment, 214413 RIT R&A pp89-pp94 6 3 09 2:35 PM Page 92 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 92 such power to expire at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 30 September 2010, whichever is the earlier, but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during this period which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
For the purposes of this resolution references to an allotment of equity securities pursuant to Resolution 8 shall include a sale of treasury shares and rights issue has the same meaning as set out in Resolution 8.
THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 23,154,462 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive of expenses which is: a not less than 1 per share: b not more than 5 per cent above the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days preceding any such purchase, AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire on 30 September 2010 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed wholly or partly after such date.
THAT with effect from 00.01 a. m. on 1 October 2009: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and b the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
THAT a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary Registered office: 27 St. Jamess Place London SW1A 1NR 3 June 2009 Inspection of documents Copies of the following documents may be inspected during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company at 27 St. Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NR up to and including the date of the AGM and at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5HS from 15 minutes before the AGM until it ends: proposed new articles of association of the Company, and a copy of the existing memorandum and articles of association marked to show the changes being proposed in resolution 11: and the executive directors service contracts and letters of appointment of the non-executive directors.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the members.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective the instrument appointing a proxy must either be a sent to the Companys registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, b lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service explained in Note 6 below, or c lodged electronically through the Companys website www.
All proxies, however lodged, must be received not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Please note that any power of attorney or other authority under which the instrument is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must accompany the physical instrument appointing a proxy, as these documents cannot be lodged electronically.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members on 21 July 2009 at 6.00 p. m. or, if the meeting is adjourned, no later than 6.00 p. m. on the date two days prior to the date of the adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting services provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note 5 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in the Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
214413 RIT R&A pp89-pp94 6 3 09 2:35 PM Page 94 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 94 7.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the AGM, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as the designated corporate representative in accordance with those directions, and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its designated corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
214413 RIT R&A pp95-pp100 6 3 09 2:37 PM Page 95 EXPLANATORY NOTES 95 RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require that the Directors Remuneration Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 33 to 38 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 3 DIVIDEND A final dividend can only be paid after the shareholders at a General Meeting have approved it.
A final dividend of 7.5 pence per ordinary share is proposed.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 6 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All Directors have to stand for re-election at least once every 3 years, but are eligible for re-election.
Directors also adhere to the Boards policy that any non-executive Director who has served as such for nine or more years and who is not retiring by rotation, shall nonetheless stand for re-election at each annual general meeting.
Accordingly, Charles Bailey is standing for re-election.
Sandra Robertson and Ian Wace were appointed as Directors since the last Annual General Meeting and, under the Articles of Association, are required to retire and seek re-election by the shareholders.
The reelection of each of the Directors standing is recommended by the Board, which confirms, following their annual performance review, that each such Directors performance continues to be satisfactory.
Biographical information on all the directors, including those standing for re-election, is shown on pages 19 and 20 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 7 REAPPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 8 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
The authority in paragraph a of Resolution 8 will allow the directors to allot new shares and other relevant securities up to a nominal value of 51,488,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2009.
The authority in paragraph b in Resolution 8 will allow the directors to allot new shares and other relevant securities only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 51,488,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, as at 3 June 2009.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares.
The directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 30 September 2010.
214413 RIT R&A pp95-pp100 6 3 09 2:37 PM Page 96 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 EXPLANATORY NOTES 96 RESOLUTION 9 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the pre-emption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
Paragraph b of Resolution 9 authorises the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in Resolution 8, or sell treasury shares, for cash only in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holding.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2010, or on 30 September 2010 if earlier.
The Directors consider the authority in Resolution 9 to be appropriate in order to allow the company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
This new power remains in line with the guidelines of the Pre-emption Group, which is supported by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines in respect of allotment of shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling 3-year period.
RESOLUTION 10 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,154,462 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 permit companies to hold any of their own shares which they have purchased as Treasury Shares as an alternative to cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors currently have no intention of exercising the authority conferred in this resolution and will only purchase shares after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and whether the effect will be to increase net asset value per share, and if it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RESOLUTION 11 ADOPTION OF NEW ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed in this resolution proposed as a special resolution to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about since the adoption of the Current Articles at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 and by the implementation on 1 October 2009 of the remaining parts of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution adopting the New Articles will only become effective on 1 October 2009.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Act or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies set out in The Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008, have not been noted.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 92 of this document.
214413 RIT R&A pp95-pp100 6 3 09 2:37 PM Page 97 97 Summary of principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
The Companys objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
The Companys memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Act provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Act the objects clause and all other provisions which are currently contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, will be deemed to be contained in a companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further the Act states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the Act, are to be treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 11 a confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of the shareholders.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Act are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Act.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Redeemable shares At present if a company wishes to issue redeemable shares, it must include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Act enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Under the law currently in force a company requires specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Act a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Provision for employees on cessation of business The Act provides that the powers of the directors of a company to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by the company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer to any person of the whole or part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary, may only be exercised by the directors if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general meeting.
The New Articles provide that the directors may exercise this power.
214413 RIT R&A pp95-pp100 6 3 09 2:37 PM Page 98 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 EXPLANATORY NOTES 98 7.
Use of seals A company currently requires authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
After 1 October 2009 such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly the relevant authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of documents other than share certificates.
Under the New Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either a director and the secretary or two directors or such other person or persons as the directors may approve.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Act share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to align the definitions and expressions used throughout the New Articles with definitions used in the Act.
Untraced shareholders The Current Articles require the Company to provide notices, documents or information to all members of the Company including members who may have changed their registered addresses but have not informed the Company of such change.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and in view of wasted expenditure incurred in connection with such undeliverable mail, the New Articles provide that if the Company sends more than one document to a member on separate occasions during a 12-month period and each of them is returned undelivered then that member will not be entitled to receive notices from the Company until he has supplied a new postal or electronic address for the service of notices.
The New Articles contain identical provisions to the Current Articles in respect of payment of dividends.
RESOLUTION 12 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS This resolution proposed as a special resolution is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The Regulations implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless certain requirements are satisfied.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive in order to be able to call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
