GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 383 Shareholder information Glossary of terms Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions impairment loss Adjustable rate mortgage ARM in the US a variable-rate mortgage.
provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards or ARMs include: hybrid ARMs which typically have a fixed-rate period personal loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such followed by an adjustable-rate period: interest-only ARMs where interest provisions are established on a portfolio basis, taking account the level only is payable for a specified number of years, typically for three to ten of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults years: and payment-option ARMs that allow the borrower to choose based on portfolio trends.
periodically between various payment options.
Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS are asset-backed Alt-A Alternative A-paper are mortgage loans with a higher credit securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on quality than sub-prime loans but with features that disqualify the commercial real estate.
borrower from a traditional prime loan.
Alt-A lending characteristics include limited documentation: high loan-to-value ratio: secured on nonCommercial paper CP comprises unsecured obligations issued by a owner occupied properties: and debt-to-income ratio above normal corporate or a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, limits.
often issued through a commercial paper conduit, to fund working capital.
Maturities typically range from two to 270 days.
However, the Arrears are the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt that depth and reliability of some CP markets means that issuers can have not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial asset is repeatedly roll over CP issuance and effectively achieve longer term said to be in arrears when payments have not been made.
Commercial paper is issued in a wide range of denominations and can be either discounted or interest-bearing.
Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP a form of asset-backed security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
Commercial paper conduit is a special purpose entity that issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of Asset-backed securities ABS are securities that represent interests in assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is specific portfolios of assets.
They are issued by a special purpose entity redeemed either by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of following a securitisation.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise assets or liquidity drawings.
residential or commercial mortgages but can include any class of asset that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend Commercial real estate freehold and leasehold properties used for primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying business activities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, pool and other rights designed to assure timely payment, such as industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail stores, shopping guarantees or other credit enhancements.
Collateralised bond centres, agricultural land and buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
obligations, collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, commercial mortgage backed securities and residential Constant proportion portfolio insurance notes CPPI notes CPPI is the mortgage backed securities are all types of ABS.
name given to a trading strategy that is designed to ensure that a fixed minimum return is achieved either at all times or more typically, at a set Assets under management are assets managed by the Group on behalf date in the future.
Essentially the strategy involves continuously reof clients.
balancing the portfolio of investments during the term of the product between performance assets and safe assets using a pre-set formula.
Collateralised bond obligations CBOs are asset-backed securities for CPPI notes provide investors with a return linked to a CPPI portfolio.
which the underlying asset portfolios are bonds, some of which may be sub-investment grade.
Contractual maturity is the date in the terms of a financial instrument on which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for Collateralised debt obligations CDOs are asset-backed securities for settlement.
which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: either bonds collateralised bond obligations or loans collateralised loan obligations Core Tier 1 capital called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from equity non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and other credit default swaps.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are regulatory deductions.
usually divided in different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses Core Tier 1 capital ratio core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskare borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, and weighted assets.
finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher coupons interest payments to compensate for their increased risk.
Cost:income ratio operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
Collateralised debt obligation squared CDO-squared is a type of Covered mortgage bonds are debt securities backed by a portfolio of collateralised debt obligation where the underlying asset portfolio mortgages that is segregated from the issuers other assets solely for includes tranches of other CDOs.
the benefit of the holders of the covered bonds.
Collateralised loan obligations CLOs are asset-backed securities for Credit default swap CDS is a contract where the protection seller which the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often leveraged loans.
receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in relation to a reference financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating downgrades.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 383 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 384 Shareholder information continued Credit derivative product company CDPC is a special purpose entity Debt securities in issue comprise unsubordinated debt securities issued that sells credit protection under credit default swaps or certain by the Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, approved forms of insurance policies.
Sometimes they can also buy bonds and medium-term notes.
CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
Deferred tax asset income taxes recoverable in future periods as a result of deductible temporary differences temporary differences Credit derivatives are contractual agreements that provide protection between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will against a credit event on one or more reference entities or financial result in tax deductible amounts in future periods and the carryassets.
The nature of a credit event is established by the protection forward of tax losses and unused tax credits.
buyer and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment Deferred tax liability income taxes payable in future periods as a result obligations when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic of taxable temporary differences temporary differences between the fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable if any, of a credit event.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, amounts in future periods.
total return swaps and credit swap options.
Defined benefit obligation the present value of expected future Credit enhancements are techniques that improve the credit standing of payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan financial obligations: generally those issued by an SPE in a resulting from employee service.
External credit enhancements include financial guarantees and letters of credit from third-party providers.
Internal Defined benefit plan pension or other post-retirement benefit plan enhancements include excess spread the difference between the other than a defined contribution plan.
interest rate received on the underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and  on securitisation, the value Defined contribution plan pension or other post-retirement benefit plan of the underlying portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
where the employers obligation is limited to its contributions to the fund.
Credit risk assets loans and advances including overdraft facilities, Delinquency - a debt or other financial obligation is considered instalment credit, finance lease receivables and other traded delinquent when one or more contractual payments are overdue.
instruments across all customer types.
Delinquency is usually defined in terms of days past due.
Delinquent and in arrears are synonymous.
Credit risk spread is the difference between the coupon on a debt instrument and the benchmark or the risk-free interest rate for the Deposits by banks comprise money deposited with the Group by banks instruments maturity structure.
It is the premium over the risk-free and recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, rate required by the market for the credit quality of an individual debt securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased instrument.
and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from customers are recorded as customer accounts.
Credit valuation adjustments are adjustments to the fair values of derivative assets to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Derivative a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes in an underlying index such as interest rates, foreign exchange Currency swap an arrangement in which two parties exchange rates, share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or specific principal amounts of different currencies at inception and an initial investment that is smaller than would be required for other subsequently interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, one types of contracts with a similar response to market factors.
The party will pay a fixed interest rate, while the other will pay a floating principal types of derivatives are: swaps, forwards, futures and options.
exchange rate though there are also fixed-fixed and floating-floating arrangements.
At the maturity of the swap, the principal amounts are Discontinued operation is a component of the Group that either has usually re-exchanged.
been disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is either: a separate major line of business or geographical Customer accounts comprise money deposited with the Group by area of operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a counterparties other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or a include demand, savings and time deposits: securities sold under subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
repurchase agreements: and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from banks are classified as deposits by banks.
Exposure at default EAD an estimate of the expected level of utilisation of a credit facility at the time of a borrowers default.
The EAD Debt restructuring see renegotiated loans.
may be higher than the current utilisation e. g. in the case where further drawings may be made under a revolving credit facility prior to default Debt securities are transferable instruments creating or acknowledging but will not typically exceed the total facility limit.
They include debentures, bonds, certificates of deposit, notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association is a US entitled to the payment of principal and interest, together with other Government Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally contractual rights under the terms of the issue, such as the right to issued by banks, on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them receive certain information.
Debt securities are generally issued for a as residential mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open fixed term and redeemable by the issuer at the end of that term.
Its obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and securities can be secured or unsecured.
credit of the US Government.
384 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:38 Page 385 Shareholder information Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation see Freddie Mac.
Guaranteed mortgages are mortgages that are guaranteed by a government or government agency.
In the US, government loan Federal National Mortgage Association see Fannie Mae.
guarantee programmes are offered by the Federal Housing Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Department FICO score a FICO score is calculated using proprietary software of Agricultures Rural Housing Service.
In the Netherlands, the developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumers Gemeentegarantie programme is run partly by the central government credit profile.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in and partly by the municipalities.
credit decisions made by banks and other providers of credit.
Home equity loan is a type of loan in which the borrower uses the equity First second lien a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one in their home as collateral.
A home equity loan creates a charge against party, over property owned by a second party, as security for payment the borrowers house.
of some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a first lien takes precedence over all other encumbrances on that Impaired loans a loan or other financial asset or portfolio of financial property i. e. second and subsequent liens.
assets classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or loans and receivables is impaired if there is objective evidence that an event or Forward contract a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an agreed future amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
Impairment allowance see loan impairment provisions.
Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation is a US Government Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally Impairment losses for impaired financial assets measured at issued by thrifts, on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them amortised cost, impairment losses the difference between carrying as residential mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted market.
Its obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and at the assets original effective interest rate are recognised in profit or credit of the US Government.
loss and the carrying amount of the financial asset reduced by establishing a provision allowance.
For impaired available-for-sale Futures contract is a contract which provides for the future delivery or financial assets, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or equity is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss as an commodity under terms established at the outset.
Futures differ from impairment loss.
forward contracts in that they are traded on recognised exchanges and rarely result in actual delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to Individually assessed loan impairment provisions impairment loss maturity by acquisition of an offsetting position.
provisions for individually significant impaired loans assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries Belgium, counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, collateral held.
Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States that have agreed to participate in the IMFs General Arrangements to Borrow.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB is the independent standard-setting body of the IASC Foundation.
Its members are Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association is a US responsible for the development and publication of International Government Agency that guarantees investors the timely payment of Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and for approving Interpretations principal and interest on mortgage-backed securities for which the of IFRS as developed by the International Financial Reporting underlying asset portfolios comprise federally insured or guaranteed Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
loans mainly loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Ginnie Mae Interest rate swap a contract under which two counterparties agree to obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment exchange periodic interest payments on a predetermined monetary of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the US Government.
Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs are a group of financial Interest spread is the difference between the gross yield and the services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function is to interest rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and other market imperfections which otherwise prevent funds from moving Investment grade generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loan demand.
They a BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Latent loss provisions loan impairment provisions held against Gross yield is the interest rate earned on average interest-earning impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been incurred as assets i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date but which have not been identified as impaired at the balance sheet.
The Group has developed methodologies to estimate latent loss provisions that reflect historical loss experience adjusted for current economic and credit conditions and the period between an impairment occurring and a loan being identified and reported as impaired.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 385 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:38 Page 386 Shareholder information continued Leveraged loans funding leveraged finance provided to a business Net interest margin is net interest income as a percentage of average resulting in an overall level of debt that exceeds that which would be interest-earning assets.
considered usual for the business or for the industry in which it Net principal exposure is the carrying value of a financial asset after operates.
Leveraged finance is commonly employed to achieve a taking account of credit protection purchased but excluding the effect specific, often temporary, objective: to make an acquisition, to effect a of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection.
buy-out or to repurchase shares.
Non-accrual loans comprise all loans for which an impairment provision Liquidity enhancements make funds available to ensure that the issuer has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss of securities, usually a commercial paper conduit, can redeem the provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is securities at maturity.
They typically take the form of a committed facility included in non-accrual loans.
Non-conforming mortgages mortgage loans that do not meet the Loan impairment provisions are established to recognise incurred requirements for sale to US Government agencies or US Government impairment losses on a portfolio of loans classified as loans and sponsored enterprises.
These requirements include limits on loan-toreceivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three components: value ratios, loan terms, loan amounts, borrower creditworthiness and individually assessed loan impairment provisions, collectively assessed other requirements.
loan impairment provisions and latent loss provisions.
Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but not the Loan-to-value ratio the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of the underlying physical the appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a or financial commodity, at a specific price, at an agreed date or over an mortgage loan as a percentage of the propertys value.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-thecounter.
Loss given default LGD the economic loss that may occur in the event of default i. e. the actual loss that part of the exposure that is not Past due a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the expected to be recovered plus any costs of recovery.
counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Master netting agreement is an agreement between two counterparties Potential problem loans are loans other than non-accrual loans, that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single principal or interest and troubled debt restructurings where known currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
information about possible credit problems of the borrower causes management to have serious doubts about the borrowers ability to meet Medium term notes MTNs are debt securities usually with a maturity of the loans repayment terms.
five to ten years, but the term may be less than one year or as long as 50 years.
They can be issued on a fixed or floating coupon basis or with Prime - prime mortgage loans generally have low default risk and are an exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with made to borrowers with good credit records and a monthly income that embedded call or put options or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are is at least three to four times greater than their monthly housing expense most generally issued as senior, unsecured debt.
mortgage payments plus taxes and other debt payments.
These borrowers provide full documentation and generally have reliable Monoline insurers are entities that specialise in providing credit payment histories.
protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default.
This protection is Private equity investments are equity investments in operating typically in the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps.
companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity investment is raised from retail or institutional investors and used to fund Mortgage-backed securities are asset-backed securities for which the investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
See growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
residential mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities.
Pro forma cost:income ratio operating expenses excluding purchased intangibles amortisation, write-down of goodwill and other intangible Mortgage servicing rights are the rights of a mortgage servicer to assets, integration and restructuring costs and share of shared assets collect mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a fee, to expressed as a percentage of total income excluding credit market the mortgage lender.
Mortgage vintage the year in which a mortgage loan was made to the Probability of default PD the likelihood that a customer will fail to customer.
make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one year time horizon.
Negative equity mortgages mortgages where the value of the property mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the loan.
Regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the Net interest income is the difference between interest receivable on time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the financial assets classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale marketplace concerned.
and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
386 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:38 Page 387 Shareholder information Renegotiated loans loans are generally renegotiated restructured Structured Investment Vehicle SIV is a limited-purpose operating either as part of the ongoing banking relationship with a creditworthy company that undertakes arbitrage activities by purchasing highly rated customer or in response to a borrowers financial difficulties.
In the latter medium and long-term, fixed-income assets and funding itself with case renegotiation may result in an extension of the due date of short-term, highly rated commercial paper and medium-term notes.
payment, a concessionary rate of interest or other changes in the terms of the loan: the loan continues to be overdue and will be individually Structured notes are securities that pay a return linked to the value or impaired if the renegotiated payments of interest and principal are level of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to insufficient to recover the loans original carrying amount.
equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
Repurchase agreement Repo see Sale and repurchase agreements.
Student loan related assets are assets that are referenced to underlying student loans.
Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS are asset-backed securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential Subordinated liabilities are liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or mortgages.
liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Retail loans are loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical care, home Sub-prime sub-prime mortgage loans are designed for customers with repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
one or more high risk characteristics, such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: loan-to-value ratio of greater than 80%: high debt-toReverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo see Sale and income ratio: the loan is not secured on the borrowers primary repurchase agreements.
residence: or a history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
Risk asset ratio RAR total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskSuper senior CDO is the most senior class of instrument issued by a weighted assets.
They benefit from the subordination of all other instruments, including AAA-rated securities, issued by the CDO vehicle.
Risk elements in lending REIL comprise non-accrual loans, accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or Tier 1 capital core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, interest and troubled debt restructurings.
less material holdings in financial companies.
Risk-weighted assets assets adjusted for their associated risks using Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted weightings established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as assets.
Certain assets are not weighted but deducted from capital.
Tier 2 capital qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised available Sale and repurchase agreements in a sale and repurchase agreement for sale equity gains and revaluation reserves less certain regulatory one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at deductions.
the same time the seller agrees to reacquire, and the buyer to resell, the asset at a later date.
From the sellers perspective such agreements are Troubled debt restructurings comprise those loans that are troubled repurchase agreements repos and from the buyers reverse debt restructurings but that are not included in either non-accrual loans repurchase agreements reverse repos.
or in accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
A restructuring of a loan is a troubled debt Securitisation is a process by which assets or cash flows are restructuring if the lender, for economic or legal reasons related to the transformed into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or cash borrowers financial difficulties, grants a concession to the borrower that flows are transferred by the originator or an intermediary, typically an it would not otherwise consider.
investment bank, to a special purpose entity which issues securities to investors.
Asset securitisations involve issuing debt securities assetUS Government National Mortgage Association see Ginnie Mae.
backed securities that are backed by the cash flows of incomegenerating assets ranging from credit card receivables to residential Unaudited unaudited financial information is information that has not mortgage loans.
Liability securitisations typically involve issuing bonds been subjected to the audit procedures undertaken by the Groups that assume the risk of a potential insurance liability ranging from a auditors to enable them to express an opinion on the Groups financial catastrophic natural event to an unexpected claims level on a certain statements.
VaR is a technique that produces estimates of the potential change in Special purpose entity SPE is an entity created by a sponsor, typically the market value of a portfolio over a specified time horizon at given a major bank, finance company, investment bank or insurance company.
An SPE can take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership, corporation or a limited liability company.
Its operations are typically Wrapped security a wrapped security is a debt security where the limited for example in a securitisation to the acquisition and financing of holder benefits from credit protection provided by a third party, typically specific assets or liabilities.
a financial guarantor or monoline insurer.
Write down a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a decline in its fair value or value in use.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 387
