GRA 5 FS Part2 09 300-348. qxp:GRA 5 FS part2 09 15 3 10 09:35 Page 348 Notes on the accounts continued 41 Related parties continued Bank of England facilities include: Asset protection scheme Open market operations these provide market participants with On 22 December 2009, the Group entered into an agreement the Asset funding at market rates on a tender basis in the form of short and Protection Scheme APS with HM Treasury HMT, acting on behalf of long-term repos on a wide range of collateral and outright purchases the UK Government, under which the Group purchased credit protection of high-quality bonds to enable them to meet the reserves that they over a portfolio of specified assets and exposures covered assets from must hold at the Bank of England.
The portfolio of covered assets has a par value of 282 billion.
The protection is subject to a first loss of 60 billion and covers 90% of US dollar repo operations these commenced in September 2008 subsequent losses.
Once the first loss has been exhausted, losses and taking the form of an auction.
Eligible collateral consists of securities recoveries in respect of assets for which a trigger event failure to pay, routinely eligible in the Bank of Englands short-term repo open bankruptcy or restructuring has occurred are included in the balance market operations together with conventional US Treasuries.
Receipts from HMT will, over time, amount to 90% of cumulative losses net of 90% of cumulative recoveries on the The special liquidity scheme this was launched in April 2008 to portfolio of covered assets less the first loss amount.
The Group has a allow financial institutions to swap temporarily illiquid assets for right to terminate the APS at any time provided that the Financial treasury bills, with fees charged based on the spread between Services Authority has confirmed in writing to HMT that it has no 3-month LIBOR and the 3-month gilt repo rate.
The scheme will objection to the proposed termination.
On termination the Group must operate for up to three years after the end of the drawdown period pay HMT the higher of the regulatory capital relief received and 2.5 30 January 2009 at the Bank of Englands discretion.
billion less premiums paid plus the aggregate of amounts received from the UK Government under the APS.
In consideration for the protection As at 31 December 2009, the Groups utilisation of these facilities provided by the APS, the Group paid an initial premium of 1,400 million amounted to 21.4 billion 2008 41.8 billion.
A further premium of 700 million is payable on 31 December 2010 and subsequently annual premiums of 500 million Government credit guarantee scheme announced in October 2008, the until the earlier of 2099 and the termination of the agreement.
scheme provides a guarantee on eligible new debt issued by qualifying institutions for a fee.
The fee, payable to HM Treasury on guaranteed The APS is a single contract providing credit protection in respect of a issues is based on a per annum rate of 50 basis points plus 100% of portfolio of financial assets.
Under IFRS, credit protection is treated the institutions median five-year Credit Default Swap CDS spread either as a financial guarantee contract or as a derivative financial during the twelve months to 7 July 2008. instrument depending on the terms of the agreement and the nature of the protected assets and exposures.
The Group has concluded, As at 31 December 2009, the Group had obtained funding from the principally because the covered portfolio includes significant exposure Bank of England and issued debt guaranteed by the Government in the form of derivatives, that the APS does not meet the criteria to be totalling 51.5 billion 2008 32.2 billion treated as a financial guarantee contract.
The contract has therefore been accounted for as a derivative financial instrument: it was Other related parties recognised initially and measured subsequently at fair value with a In their roles as providers of finance, Group companies provide changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
There is no change in development and other types of capital support to businesses.
the recognition and measurement of the covered assets as a result of These investments are made in the normal course of business and the APS.
Impairment provisions on covered assets measured at on arms-length terms.
In some instances, the investment may extend amortised cost are assessed and charged in accordance with the to ownership or control over 20% or more of the voting rights of the Groups accounting policy: held-for-trading assets, assets designated at investee company.
However, these investments are not considered to fair value and available-for-sale assets within the APS portfolio continue give rise to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under to be measured at fair value with no adjustments to reflect the protection IAS 24. provided by the APS.
There is no change in how gains and losses on the covered assets are recognised in the income statement or in other b The Group recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension comprehensive income.
Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The amounts involved are not material to the Group.
The Group also participates in a number of schemes operated by the Bank of England and the UK Government and made available to eligible c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between Group banks and building societies.
entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported.
d The captions in the primary financial statements of the parent company include amounts attributable to subsidiaries.
These amounts have been disclosed in aggregate in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
42 Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events between the year end and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure in the accounts.
348 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
