GRA 5 FS Part1 09 239-299. qxp:GRA 5 FS part1 09 15 3 10 09:33 Page 249 Financial statements Card related services: fees from credit card business include: 5.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of pensions and Commission received from retailers for processing credit and debit healthcare plans to eligible employees.
card transactions: income is accrued to the income statement as the service is performed: For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a high quality corporate interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
The Group also receives interchange fees from other card assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme issuers for providing cash advances through its branch and assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset Automated Teller Machine networks.
These fees are accrued once surplus or liability deficit.
The current service cost, curtailments and the transaction has taken place: and any past service costs together with the expected return on scheme assets less the unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities is An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred and taken charged to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. 12 months.
recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside profit or loss and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Insurance brokerage: this is made up of fees and commissions received Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the sale of an in the income statement when payable.
insurance contract is earned at the inception of the policy, as the insurance has been arranged and placed.
Intangible assets and goodwill where commission is refundable in the event of policy cancellation in Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less line with estimated cancellations.
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss over the assets estimated economic lives using Investment management fees: fees charged for managing investments methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits and is are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Incremental included in depreciation and amortisation.
The estimated useful costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment economic lives are as follows: management contract are deferred and charged as expense as the related revenue is recognised.
Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years Insurance premiums: see accounting policy 12.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written-off A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use the Group will recover the carrying amount principally through a sale computer software are capitalised once technical feasibility and transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset or economic viability have been established.
These costs include payroll, disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of the costs of materials and services, and directly attributable overheads.
its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset or Capitalisation of costs ceases when the software is capable of disposal group is acquired as part of a business combination it is operating as intended.
During and after development, accumulated initially measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities of costs are reviewed for impairment against the projected benefits that the disposal groups classified as held for sale and non-current assets software is expected to generate.
Costs incurred prior to the classified as held for sale are shown separately on the face of the establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability are balance sheet.
expensed as incurred as are all training costs and general overheads.
The costs of licences to use computer software that are expected to The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount on generate economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
the face of the income statement comprising the post-tax profit or loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, of the discontinued operation.
A discontinued operation is a cashliabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint generating unit or a group of cash-generating units that either has been venture acquired, is initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and a represents a less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, b acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the balance is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line sheet category Intangible assets and that on associates within their of business or geographical area of operations or c is a subsidiary carrying amounts.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a subsidiary, acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
associate or joint venture includes the carrying value of any related goodwill.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 249
