GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 378 Shareholder information continued Ordinary dividends Ordinary dividends per share for prior years in the table below were restated for the effect of the rights issue in June 2008 and the capitalisation issue in September 2008.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Amount per share and American Depository Share 1 pence pence pence pence pence Interim 2 8.5 6.8 5.4 Final 3 19.3 18.5 14.8 Total dividends on equity shares 27.8 25.3 20.2 Notes: 1 Each American Depository Share represents 20 ordinary shares.
The historical amounts listed in the table apply to the ordinary shares, as the American Depositary Shares were not issued until October 2007 as described above under Trading Market.
2 In 2008, the company issued new ordinary shares by way of a capitalisation issue rather than paying an interim dividend.
3 Final dividends for each year were proposed in the indicated year and paid in the following year.
For further information, see Note 8 on the accounts.
Taxation for US Holders ADSs or PROs as part of a hedging transaction, straddle, wash sale, The following discussion summarises certain US federal and UK tax conversion transaction or integrated transaction or persons entering into consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary a constructive sale with respect to such securities, persons whose shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs representing functional currency for US federal income tax purposes is not the US ordinary shares ordinary ADSs, ADSs representing non-cumulative dollar, entities classified as partnerships for US federal income tax dollar preference shares preference ADSs or PROs by a beneficial purposes, tax-exempt entities or persons that own or are deemed to owner that is a citizen or resident of the United States or that otherwise own 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
will be subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of the ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, The statements and practices set forth below regarding US and UK tax ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs a US Holder.
This summary laws, including the US UK double taxation convention relating to income assumes that a US Holder is holding ordinary shares, non-cumulative and capital gains which entered into force on 31 March 2003 the dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, as Treaty, and the US UK double taxation convention relating to estate and applicable, as capital assets.
This summary does not address the tax gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty, are based on those laws and practices consequences to a US Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an as in force and as applied in practice on the date of this report.
This individual, ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes, ii that summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and carries on a trade, profession or vocation through a branch, agency or holders are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall tax permanent establishment in the UK in connection with which their consequences, including specifically the consequences under US ordinary shares, non-cumulative preference shares, ordinary ADSs, federal, state, local and other laws, and possible changes in taxation preference ADSs or PROs, are held, used or acquired, or iii generally, law, of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference associated companies, controls, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of ADSs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
the voting stock of the company, nor does this summary address the tax consequences to US Holders subject to special rules, such as certain The following discussion assumes that the company is not, and will not financial institutions, dealers or traders in securities who use a mark-tobecome, a passive foreign investment company PFIC see Passive market method of tax accounting, persons holding ordinary shares, Foreign Investment Company considerations on page 382. non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference 378 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 379 Shareholder information Ordinary shares, preference shares, ordinary ADSs and Dividends will be included in a US Holders income on the date of the preference ADSs US Holders or in the case of ADSs, the depositarys receipt of the Taxation of dividends dividend.
The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling or euros For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Tax Treaty and the US Internal to be taken into income by a US Holder will be the US dollar amount Revenue Code of 1986 as amended the Code, US Holders of ordinary calculated by reference to the relevant exchange rate in effect on the ADSs and preference ADSs should be treated as owners of the ordinary date of such receipt regardless of whether the payment is in fact shares and the non-cumulative dollar preference shares underlying such converted into US dollars.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on ADSs.
the date of receipt, the US Holder generally should not be required to recognise foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom income.
If the amount of such dividend is not converted into US dollars depositary receipts are released before shares are delivered to the on the date of receipt, the US Holder may have foreign currency gain or depositary, or intermediaries, in the chain of ownership between US loss.
holders and the issuer of the security underlying the depositary receipts may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign Taxation of capital gains tax credits for US holders of depositary receipts.
Such actions would A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an individual, also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced rate of US tax ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be liable for UK tax on applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders.
capital gains realised on the disposition of an ordinary share, a nonAccordingly, the availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends cumulative dollar preference share, an ordinary ADS or a preference received by certain non-corporate US holders of ordinary ADSs could ADS unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate US be affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other US Holder, such The company is not required to withhold UK tax at source from dividend US Holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a payments it makes or from any amount including any amounts in UK branch or agency and, in each case, such ordinary share, nonrespect of accrued dividends distributed by the company.
US Holders cumulative dollar preference share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is who are not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK and who do not or has been used, held or acquired by or for the purposes of such trade carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, or profession or vocation, carried on through such permanent agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their establishment, branch or agency.
Special rules apply to individuals who ordinary shares, non-cumulative preference shares, ordinary ADSs or are temporarily not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
preference ADSs are held, used or acquired will not be subject to UK tax in respect of any dividends received on the relevant shares or ADSs.
A US Holder will, upon the sale or other disposition of an ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, an ordinary ADS or a Distributions by the company other than certain pro rata distributions of preference ADS, or upon the redemption of a non-cumulative dollar ordinary shares or rights to receive such shares will constitute foreign preference share or preference ADS, generally recognise capital gain or source dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the loss for US federal income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits of redemption of a non-cumulative dollar preference share or a preference the company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
ADS, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any Because the company does not maintain calculations of its earnings ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount equal and profits under US federal income tax principles, it is expected that to the difference between the amount realised excluding in the case of distributions will be reported to US Holders as dividends.
Payments will a redemption any amount treated as a dividend for US federal income not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to tax purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the US Holders tax corporate US holders.
basis in such share or ADS.
This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if the US Holder held the share or ADS so sold, Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon a disposed or redeemed for more than one year.
holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain noncorporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain recognised will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Non-corporate US on the disposal of an ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS will generally be entitled, are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal favourable rate.
income tax liability in respect of such gain.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 379 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 380 Shareholder information continued Estate and gift tax PROs Subject to the discussion of the Estate Tax Treaty in the next paragraph, United States ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding tax, as to ADSs or preference ADSs beneficially owned by an individual may be which see below will constitute foreign source dividend income for US subject to UK inheritance tax subject to exemptions and reliefs on the federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the current or death of the individual or in certain circumstances, if such shares or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for US ADSs are the subject of a gift including a transfer at less than market federal income tax purposes.
Because the company does not maintain value by such individual.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on calculations of its earnings and profits under US federal income tax gifts to individuals made more than seven years before the death of the principles, it is expected that distributions will be reported to US donor.
Ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Holders as dividends.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendsordinary ADSs or preference ADSs held by the trustees of a settlement received deduction generally allowed to corporate US holders.
A US may also be subject to UK inheritance tax.
Special rules apply to such Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, if any, settlements.
withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign tax credit with respect to such tax.
An ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS beneficially owned by an individual, Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon a whose domicile is determined to be the United States for purposes of holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain nonthe Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the UK, will not be corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Non-corporate US transfer of such share or ADS, except in certain cases where the share Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they or ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a favourable rate.
A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK redemption of a PRO, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed federal income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a base of an individual used for the performance of independent redemption, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, personal services.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit any ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding any paid in the UK in a case where the ordinary share, non-cumulative dollar amount in respect of mandatory interest and any missed payments preference share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is subject to both which are to be satisfied on a missed payment satisfaction date, which UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
would be treated as ordinary income and the US Holders tax basis in the PRO.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain recognised consequences of transferring an ADS or ADR in registered form on the disposal of PROs will generally be entitled, subject to certain otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the ADS or of limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal income tax liability transferring an ordinary share or a non-cumulative dollar preference in respect of such gain.
A transfer of a registered ADS or ADR executed and retained in the United States will not give rise to stamp duty and an agreement to transfer a registered ADS or ADR will not give rise to SDRT.
Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on or in respect of transfers of ordinary shares or non-cumulative dollar preference shares and accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to acquire ordinary shares or non-cumulative dollar preference shares is advised to consult its own tax advisers in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
380 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 381 Shareholder information United Kingdom Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax purposes Taxation of payments on the PROs and, as such, may be subject to income tax by direct assessment even Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than dividends for where paid without withholding.
However, interest with a UK source UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs will constitute quoted received without deduction or withholding on account of UK tax will not eurobonds within the meaning of section 987 of the Income Tax Act be chargeable to UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the 2007 and therefore payments of interest will not be subject to case of a corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as long as the UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of other US PROs remain at all times listed on a recognised stock exchange within Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the the meaning of section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007, such as the UK through a UK branch or agency in each case in connection with main market of the New York Stock Exchange.
In all other cases, an which the interest is received or to which the PROs are attributable.
amount must be withheld on account of UK income tax at the basic rate There are also exemptions for interest received by certain categories of currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary by HM Revenue agents such as some brokers and investment managers.
& Customs under the Treaty and except that the withholding obligation does not apply to payments to persons who the company reasonably EU Directive on taxation of savings income believes are within the charge to corporation tax or fall within various The European Union has adopted a directive regarding the taxation of categories enjoying a special tax status including charities and pension savings income.
The Directive requires member states of the European funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons unless HM Union to provide to the tax authorities of other member states details of Revenue & Customs directs otherwise.
Where interest has been paid payments of interest and other similar income paid by a person to an under deduction of UK withholding tax, US Holders may be able to individual or certain other persons resident in another member state, recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
except that Luxembourg and Austria may instead impose a withholding system for a transitional period unless during such period they elect Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest is paid otherwise.
to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of an individual, may be required to provide information in relation to the payment and the Disposal including redemption individual concerned to HM Revenue & Customs.
HM Revenue & A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate US Customs may communicate this information to the tax authorities of Holder will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on capital gains other jurisdictions.
unless the US Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose includes a profession or a vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and HM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the issue of the PROs are, or have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that the PROs that interest payments would not be treated as distributions for trade, carried on through such branch or agency.
UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact that interest may be deferred under the terms of issue: or ii the undated nature of the PROs, A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK provided that at the time an interest payment is made, the PROs are not tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is held by a company which is associated with the company or by a an individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the funded company.
A company will be associated with the company if, relevant year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade, broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as the company.
A profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency to which company will be a funded company for these purposes if there are the PROs are attributable.
arrangements involving that company being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an entity associated with the company.
In Annual tax charges this respect, HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax charges holding an interest in the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in respect of with any company associated with the company will not be a funded profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs, but only if such corporate company by virtue of such facilities.
US Holders carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK permanent establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 381
