GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 363 Additional information Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, Underwriting Agreement computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2009 On 22 April 2008, the company, Goldman Sachs International, Merrill was 1,215 million 2008 1,406 million: 2007 1,792 million.
Lynch International, UBS and the Royal Bank entered into an underwriting agreement, pursuant to which Merrill Lynch International, Major shareholders Goldman Sachs International and UBS agreed to procure subscribers Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary, B and for, or failing which themselves to subscribe for, ordinary shares not preference shares are given on page 213. taken up under the Rights Issue, in each case at the relevant issue price.
Pursuant to the underwriting agreement, the company agreed to In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury pay certain fees and expenses to Merrill Lynch International, Goldman HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing Sachs International and UBS in consideration for their underwriting 57.92% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
The company gave certain representations and warranties HM Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising and indemnities to those persons defined as underwriters in the their holding to 70.3% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
The liabilities of the company were uncapped as to time and amount.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the company representing the entire issued B share capital.
Sale of Angel Trains On 6 August 2008, the company completed the sale of Angel Trains Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in Group to a consortium advised by Babcock & Brown for an enterprise the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the companys value of 3.6 billion.
ordinary, B and preference shares during the three years ended 24 February 2010.
All shareholders within a class of the companys Sale of Tesco Personal Finance shares have the same voting rights.
On 28 July 2008, the company announced that it had agreed to sell its 50 per cent.
shareholding in Tesco Personal Finance to its joint venture At 24 February 2010, the directors of the company had options to partner Tesco plc for a cash consideration of 950 million, subject to purchase a total of 12,138,546 ordinary shares of the company.
As part of this transaction, the company agreed to continue to provide certain commercial services to Tesco As at 31 December 2009, almost all of the companys US$ denominated Personal Finance post-completion.
The sale completed on 19 December preference shares and American Depository Shares representing 2008. ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
All other shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered First Placing and Open Offer Agreement outside the US.
Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement effective as of 13 October 2008 entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch Material contracts International and HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the qualifying shareholders to apply to acquire new shares at the issue ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: price of 65.5 pence by way of the First Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA and joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and procure placees to acquire the new shares at not less than the issue RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to price of 65.5 pence on such terms as agreed by HM Treasury on the the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired basis that the new shares placed were subject to clawback to the extent Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded they were taken up under the First Open Offer and iii HM Treasury to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank agreed that, to the extent not placed or taken up under the First Open Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered Offer and subject to the terms and conditions set out in the First Placing into between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, and Open Offer Agreement, HM Treasury would acquire such new Santander and the Dutch State.
The CSA governs the relationships shares itself at the issue price of 65.5 pence.
amongst the parties thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO.
The CSA details, inter alia, the funding of RFS In consideration of its services under the First Placing and Open Offer Holdings in connection with the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the equity Agreement, HM Treasury was paid i a commission of 0.5 per cent.
of interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS Holdings both before the aggregate value of the new shares at the issue price of 65.5 pence and after the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the arrangements for the per new share payable on Admission as defined in the First Placing transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets and liabilities to the and Open Offer Agreement and the second business day after the day Dutch State previously Fortis Bank Nederland, the company and on which the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement terminated and Santander post-acquisition of ABN AMRO, further funding obligations of ii a further commission of 1 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the the Dutch State, the company and Santander after the acquisition of new shares acquired by placees including HM Treasury at the issue ABN AMRO where funding is required by regulatory authorities in price of 65.5 pence per new share payable on Admission as defined in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation of Core Tier the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The company paid all 1 capital and the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs.
legal and other costs and expenses of HM Treasury, those of UBS and Merrill Lynch International properly incurred and the costs and expenses of HM Treasurys financial advisers incurred in connection with the First Placing and Open Offer and the preference share issue.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 363 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 364 Additional information continued The company also bore all costs and expenses relating to the First Sale of Bank of China Investment Placing and Open Offer and the preference share issue, including but On 14 January 2009, pursuant to i a placing agreement entered into not limited to the fees and expenses of its professional advisers, the between the company, RBS China Investments S. r. l. a Luxembourg cost of preparation, advertising, printing and distribution of the First incorporated subsidiary of the company and ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Placing and Open Offer prospectus and all other documents connected Hong Kong Branch, ii a placing agreement entered into between the with the First Placing and Open Offer and the preference share issue, company, RBS China Investments S. r. l. ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Hong the listing fees of the FSA, any charges by CREST and the fees of the Kong Branch and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, and iii a London Stock Exchange and Euronext.
share purchase agreement entered into between RBS China Investments S. r. l. Primestar Resource Holdings Limited and Orientmax Capital The company gave certain undertakings to HM Treasury in relation to Limited, the company through RBS China Investments S. r. l. sold its such matters as mortgage lending, lending to SMEs and Board entire 4.26 per cent.
investment in Bank of China for HKD 18.4 billion.
These undertakings were aimed at ensuring that any State aid involved in the potential acquisition of new shares and the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement companys potential participation in the Credit Guarantee Scheme to be Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement dated 19 January 2009 promoted by HM Treasury as part of its support for the UK banking entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch International and industry was compatible with the common market under EU law.
These HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite qualifying shareholders to constraints will cease to apply when, broadly, it is determined that RBS apply to subscribe for new shares at the issue price of 31.75 pence per is no longer in receipt of State aid.
new share by way of the Second Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners and The undertakings the company gave to HM Treasury included the joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to following: procure placees to subscribe for the new shares on such terms as may be agreed by the company and HM Treasury at not less than the issue i no bonus would be awarded to any director for 2008 and any price of 31.75 pence per new share on the basis that the new shares bonuses earned by directors in respect of 2009 will be paid in placed will be subject to clawback to the extent they are taken up under restricted shares, remuneration will seek to reward long-term value the Second Open Offer and iii HM Treasury agreed that, to the extent creation and not encourage excessive risk taking short-term not placed or taken up under the Second Open Offer and subject to the indicators will be taken into account only where fully consistent with terms and conditions set out in the Second Placing and Open Offer long-term value creation and not encouraging excessive risk taking Agreement, HM Treasury will subscribe for such new shares itself at the and directors who are dismissed will receive a severance package issue price of 31.75 pence per new share.
which is reasonable and perceived as fair: Pursuant to the terms of the Second Placing and Open Offer ii to work with HM Treasury on the appointment of up to three new Agreement, the aggregate proceeds of the Second Placing and Open independent non-executive directors: Offer net of expenses were used in full to fund the redemption on Admission as defined in the Second Placing and Open Offer iii to maintain its SME and mortgage lending availability to at least Agreement of the preference shares held by HM Treasury at 101 per 2007 levels until the end of 2011 with the active marketing of cent.
of their issue price 5.05 billion together with the accrued competitively priced loan products: dividend on the preference shares from and including 1 December 2008 to but excluding the date of Admission as defined in the Second iv to increase its support to shared equity projects until the end of Placing and Open Offer Agreement and the commissions payable to 2009 in order to assist those in difficulties with their mortgage HM Treasury under the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
payments to stay in their homes, either through individual bank schemes or paid into a central fund run by industry: and In consideration of the provision of its services under the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, the company paid to HM Treasury v to publish an annual report, for each year until 2011, on its lending i a commission of 0.5 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the new to SMEs and establish transparent public reporting on both SME shares at the issue price of 31.75 pence per new share, payable on the and mortgage lending as agreed with HM Treasury.
earlier of Admission as defined in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement and the second business day after the day on which the The undertakings relating to SME and mortgage lending have been Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement is terminated and ii a superseded by the Lending Commitments Letter outlined in the Lending further commission of 1 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the new Commitments Letter section below.
In addition, the company agreed to shares subscribed for by placees at the issue price of 31.75 pence per limit its activities to the higher of: i the annual rate of growth of UK new share payable on the date of Admission as defined in the Second nominal GDP in the preceding year: and ii the average historical Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
growth of the balance sheets in the UK banking sector during the period 1987-2007, unless there is evidence that the thresholds are The company paid to each of HM Treasury, UBS and Merrill Lynch exceeded for reasons unrelated to the provision of the aid.
International all legal and other costs and expenses properly incurred in the case of UBS and Merrill Lynch International and those of HM Treasurys financial advisers, incurred in connection with the Second Placing and Open Offer, the redemption of the preference shares or any arrangements referred to in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
364 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 365 Additional information The company also bore all costs and expenses relating to the Second First Subscription and Transfer Agreements Placing and Open Offer and the preference share redemption, including In connection with the First Placing and Open Offer, the company, Merrill but not limited to the fees and expenses of its professional advisers, Lynch International, UBS, Computershare and Encuentro Limited entered the cost of preparation, advertising, printing and distribution of the into several agreements dated 4 November 2008, in respect of the prospectus dated 16 March 2009 and all other documents connected subscription and transfer of ordinary shares and redeemable preference with the Second Placing and Open Offer and the preference share shares in Encuentro Limited.
Under the terms of these agreements: redemption, the listing fees of the FSA, any charges by CREST and the fees of the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.
i the company and UBS and or Merrill Lynch International agreed to acquire ordinary shares in Encuentro Limited and enter into put HM Treasury is entitled to novate its rights under the Second Placing and call options in respect of the ordinary shares in Encuentro and Open Offer Agreement to any entity that is owned, directly or Limited subscribed for by UBS and or Merrill Lynch that were indirectly, by HM Treasury.
exercisable if the First Placing and Open Offer did not proceed: The company gave certain representations and warranties and ii Merrill Lynch International or UBS, as applicable, agreed to apply indemnities to each of HM Treasury, UBS and Merrill Lynch International monies received from qualifying shareholders, placees or HM under the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The liabilities of Treasury under the First Placing and Open Offer to subscribe for the company are unlimited as to time and amount.
redeemable preference shares in Encuentro Limited to an aggregate value equal to such monies, after deduction of the The company also gave HM Treasury the following undertakings: amount of certain commissions and expenses: and i to extend the lending commitments made to HM Treasury in the iii the company agreed to allot and issue the new shares to those First Placing and Open Offer Agreement in respect of the UK persons entitled thereto in consideration of Merrill Lynch mortgage and SME lending markets.
These commitments will now International or UBS, as applicable, transferring its holding of also apply to the companys lending to larger commercial and redeemable preference shares and ordinary shares in Encuentro industrial companies in the United Kingdom: and Limited to the company.
ii a commitment to increase the level at which competitively priced Accordingly, instead of receiving cash as consideration for the issue of lending is made available and actively marketed by the Group in the new shares, at the conclusion of the First Placing and Open Offer, the United Kingdom by 6 billion.
the company owned the entire issued ordinary and redeemable preference share capital of Encuentro Limited whose only assets were The companys commitments described at i and ii above have been its cash reserves, which represented an amount equivalent to the net superseded by the Lending Commitments Letter see below pursuant proceeds of the First Placing and Open Offer.
The company was able to to which the company has agreed, among other things, to lend 16 utilise this amount equivalent to the First Placing and Open Offer net billion above the amount the company has budgeted to lend to UK proceeds by exercising its right of redemption over the redeemable businesses and 9 billion above the amount the company has budgeted preference shares it held in Encuentro Limited.
to lend to UK homeowners in the year commencing 1 March 2009, with a commitment to lend at similar levels in the year commencing 1 March Qualifying shareholders were not party to these arrangements and so 2010.
For further details see the Lending Commitments Letter section did not acquire any direct right against Merrill Lynch International, UBS below.
and Computershare pursuant to these arrangements.
The company was responsible for enforcing the other parties obligations thereunder.
Preference Share Subscription Agreement Pursuant to a Preference Share Subscription Agreement effective as of Pre-accession Commitments Letter 13 October 2008 between the company and HM Treasury, HM Treasury On 26 February 2009, the Royal Bank entered into a deed poll in favour subscribed for, and the company allotted and issued to HM Treasury, the of HM Treasury, pursuant to which the Royal Bank gave a series of preference shares for a total consideration of 5 billion.
The company undertakings on behalf of each member of the Group, with immediate and HM Treasury agreed that applications would be made to the UKLA effect unless otherwise agreed, in relation to the provision of information for the preference shares to be admitted to the Official List and to the and the management of the assets, commitments and exposures the London Stock Exchange for the preference shares to be admitted to Proposed Assets in the period prior to the Royal Banks proposed trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Pursuant to the Preference accession to and participation in the UK Governments Asset Protection Share Subscription Agreement, the company agreed to pay the costs Scheme APS.
and expenses of both parties in relation to the negotiation of the Preference Share Subscription Agreement and the subscription for, and The Royal Bank undertook to HM Treasury, among other things, to: allotment and issue of, the preference shares including, without limitation, any stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
HM Treasury was i provide all such assistance and information and data as is entitled to novate its rights under the Preference Share Subscription reasonably requested which is pertinent to the implementation of Agreement to any entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, by HM the APS and the Royal Banks potential participation in the APS: Treasury.
ii provide, as soon as practicable, an indicative list of the assets, The Preference Share Subscription Agreement was conditional on the commitments and exposures that the Royal Bank propose to include First Placing and Open Offer Agreement becoming unconditional in within the APS with a view to agreeing such list by 30 April 2009: accordance with its terms.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 365 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 366 Additional information continued iii provide, as promptly as practicable, information and data relating Pursuant to this lending commitment, the company agreed to increase to the Proposed Assets reasonably requested for due diligence its lending in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2009 from its UK purposes and to provide certain other information concerning the banking operations to UK businesses by, in aggregate, 16 billion above Groups business and the financial performance and risk of the the amount previously budgeted.
Proposed Assets: The company has also made a commitment to increase lending to iv provide access to the Groups premises, books, records, senior homeowners, including first time buyers, in the United Kingdom.
The executives, relevant personnel and professional advisers on company has undertaken to increase its residential mortgage lending reasonable terms: by at least 9 billion above the amount previously budgeted in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2009. v consult with HM Treasury regarding the management and operations of the Proposed Assets and to ensure that the We are currently in discussions with HM Treasury on potential management of the Proposed Assets is in accordance with usual adjustments to the lending commitments to reflect economic business practices and also without regard to the possible benefits circumstances over the coming 12 months from March 2010. under the APS: Such additional lending is subject to the companys ordinary course vi develop and, subject to market conditions, implement a liability pricing and other terms, and certain commercial, risk, credit and management plan which is designed to enable the Group to meet regulatory considerations.
certain Core Tier 1 Capital targets for 2009: and The company has also made a commitment to increase lending to vii use best endeavours giving regard to reasonable operational homeowners, including first time buyers, in the United Kingdom.
The requirements to maintain regular, adequate and effective company has undertaken to increase its residential mortgage lending monitoring, reporting, risk management and audit controls and by at least 9 billion above the amount previously budgeted in the 12 procedures in order, among other things, to ensure that risks months commencing 1 March 2009 and to maintain in the 12 months relating to key business processes which affect the Proposed commencing 1 March 2010 similar levels of residential mortgage Assets are identified, assessed and reported and are managed lending as in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2009 subject to and mitigated appropriately.
adjustment of the commitments by the UK Government departments from time to time.
In addition, the Royal Bank agreed in principle that, if and only if the Royal Bank accedes to the APS, it would not claim, and would disclaim, The companys compliance with its lending commitments is monitored certain UK tax losses and allowances arising to members of the Group by the UK Government, and is subject to a reporting process.
in respect of any accounting period ending on or after 31 December 2008, provided that this undertaking would not apply in respect of any The company has also made certain undertakings as regards marketing such tax benefits arising in the earlier of a the first accounting period in support of its lending commitments and certain other matters relating beginning more than five years after the relevant accession date and to its business and residential lending practices and policies.
The b the first accounting period beginning after the relevant accession lending commitments made in the deed poll supersede the date in which the Group becomes profitable.
commitments given by the company in the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement and the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The companys commitments, described in this section have been superseded by the Scheme Rules and the Accession Agreement, for B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement details of the Accession agreement, see below, with the exception of a On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the commitment to inform the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM prior to making significant reductions in the level of lending being made Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access available to certain borrowers or counterparties, which will apply until Share the Acquisitions and agreed the terms of HM Treasurys 28 February 2011, in line with the duration of the commitments under subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of the Lending Commitments Letter described below.
further B Shares the Contingent B Shares, which will be issued on the same terms as the initial B shares.
The Acquisitions were subject to Lending Commitments Letter the satisfaction of various conditions, including the company having On 26 February 2009, the company entered into a deed poll in favour of obtained the approval of its shareholders in relation to the Acquisitions.
certain UK Government departments under which it undertook to support lending to creditworthy borrowers in the UK in a commercial The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 manner with effect from 1 March 2009.
On 18 May 2009, the company billion Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B Shares in the entered into an amendment to this deed poll which took effect from Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement.
For a period of five 29 May 2009 and on 20 November 2009, the company executed a years from 22 December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a further amendment to this deed poll.
This lending commitment was a termination event or until the company decides with FSA consent to pre-requisite to the companys participation in the APS and other terminate such Contingent Subscription the Contingent Period, if the Government backed schemes, the objective of which was to reinforce Core Tier 1 ratio of the company falls below five per cent.
and if certain the stability of the financial system and support the recovery of the other conditions are met HM Treasury has committed to subscribe for economy.
366 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 367 Additional information the Contingent B Shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 billion and HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to vote the B shares 2 billion or such smaller amounts as the company and HM Treasury or the Dividend Access Share to the extent that votes cast on such may agree.
Any unused portion of the 8 billion may be subscribed in B shares and the Dividend Access Share, together with any other votes one or more further tranches.
which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any other ordinary shares held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed 75 per cent.
The company may, subject to certain conditions, at any time terminate of the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution proposed at a the Contingent Subscription in whole or in part, with the consent of the general meeting of the company.
The company is required to pay an annual fee, for the Contingent Period, in relation to the Acquisitions and the Contingent Subscription of For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company within the 320 million less four per cent.
per annum of the value of any B shares meaning of the UKLAs Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not subscribed for under the Contingent Subscription.
Such fee is payable to vote on related party transaction resolutions at general meetings and in cash or, with HM Treasurys consent, by waiving certain UK tax reliefs to direct that its affiliates do not so vote.
that are treated as deferred tax assets or through a further issue of B shares to HM Treasury.
The annual fee ceases to be payable on Accession Agreement termination of the Contingent Subscription and if the company The company acceded to the APS through an accession agreement the terminates the Contingent Subscription in part, the fee will reduce Accession Agreement entered into with HM Treasury, which became proportionately.
The Accession Agreement incorporates the terms and conditions of the APS set out in the document entitled The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM UK Asset Protection Scheme Terms and Conditions which is available Treasury on the date of the Acquisitions and Contingent Capital on HM Treasurys website the Scheme Conditions.
The Accession Agreement, on the date the circular was posted to shareholders, on the Agreement which incorporates the Scheme Conditions is accounted for first date on which all of the conditions precedent were satisfied, or as a credit derivative and it tailors the APS to the company by, amongst waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions.
The company has agreed other things, setting applicable bank-specific thresholds and addressing to give such representations and warranties again on each date if any a limited number of other bank-specific issues.
a Contingent Subscription is triggered and on each date if any on which B shares are issued pursuant to a Contingent Subscription.
Under the APS, HM Treasury is liable to make payments to the company in respect of a pre-defined pool of assets and exposures the Covered The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses Assets in respect of which a specified failure to pay, bankruptcy or incurred in connection with the Acquisitions and agreed to do so in restructuring trigger occurs or is deemed to occur.
Payments under the connection with the Contingent B shares, if the Contingent Subscription APS are intended to protect the company, over time, for 90% of the is exercised.
amount by which cumulative losses on the whole portfolio of Covered Assets as reduced by cumulative recoveries on the portfolio exceed a The company agreed to a number of undertakings, including with fixed first loss threshold of 60 billion.
Cumulative losses as reduced by respect to: i restrictions on the payment of dividends or other cumulative recoveries below the first loss threshold, and a 10% vertical distributions on, and the redemption of, certain securities: ii slice of any cumulative losses as reduced by cumulative recoveries expectations regarding the repurchase of the B shares by the company: exceeding the first loss threshold, are for the account of the company.
iii renegotiations of the terms of the Contingent Subscription as a result of future legislative or regulatory changes: iv negotiating in good Protection under the APS is, subject to various requirements under the faith to maintain the status of the B shares and Dividend Access Share Scheme Conditions, provided in respect of the Covered Assets on the as Core Tier 1 capital: and v restrictions in relation to the companys companys consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 with an share premium account.
aggregate covered amount of 282 billion.
Protection under the APS may be lost or limited in certain specified circumstances, including the HM Treasury has agreed to waive its statutory pre-emption rights arising failure of a Covered Asset to satisfy certain asset eligibility criteria set out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share in respect of any out in the Scheme Conditions.
future issue of equity securities by the company other than B shares and has agreed to vote its B shares and the Dividend Access Share, as During the life of the APS, the company will pay HM Treasury a nonapplicable, in favour of each special resolution to disapply its prerefundable annual fee payable in advance of 700 million per annum emption rights under the B shares and or the Dividend Access Share for the first three years of the APS and 500 million per annum until the then held by HM Treasury every time they arise.
The pre-emption rights earlier of i the date of termination of the APS and ii 31 December arising out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share will also be 2099.
The annual fee can, subject to HM Treasurys consent, be paid disapplied in the Articles of Association.
wholly or partly by means of the waiver of certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax assets or funded by the issuance of additional HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to exercise its option B shares to HM Treasury.
to convert B shares into ordinary shares to the extent that it holds more than 75 per cent.
of the ordinary shares of the company or to the extent that the exercise of such option would result in it holding more than 75 per cent.
of the ordinary shares of the company.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 367 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 368 Additional information continued The company has the right, in certain circumstances, to withdraw from Second Subscription and Transfer Agreements the APS permanently all or part of a Covered Asset.
In addition, the In connection with the B share Issue which took place on 22 December company contractually has the right to terminate the APS exercisable at 2009, the company, HM Treasury and Aonach Mor Limited entered into any time provided that the FSA has confirmed in writing to HM Treasury several agreements, in respect of the subscription and transfer of that it has no objection to the proposed termination.
An exit fee and, ordinary shares and redeemable preference shares in Aonach Mor potentially, a refund of HM Treasurys net payments under the APS are Limited.
Under the terms of these agreements: payable by the company upon such termination.
The Scheme Conditions also contain various provisions and restrictions on the i the company and HM Treasury acquired ordinary shares in Aonach management and administration of the Covered Assets and certain Mor Limited and entered into put and call options in respect of the related assets.
The company is obliged to manage such assets in ordinary shares in Aonach Mor Limited subscribed for by HM accordance with the asset management objective, which is to maximise Treasury that would have been exercisable if the B share issue had the expected net present value of such assets discounted at an HM not proceeded: Treasury rate, including by minimising losses and potential losses and maximising recoveries and potential recoveries.
The company also has ii HM Treasury applied monies paid under the B share issue to monitoring and reporting obligations under the Scheme Conditions subscribe for redeemable preference shares in Aonach Mor Limited which are aimed at the transparency in respect of the Covered Assets to an aggregate value equal to such monies: and to enable HM Treasury to manage and assess its exposure under the APS.
In addition, the company has to establish a separate governance iii the company alloted and issued the B shares to HM Treasury in structure for the purposes of the APS.
Further, the Scheme Conditions consideration of HM Treasury transferring its holding of and the Accession Agreement also contain requirements for the redeemable preference shares and ordinary shares in Aonach Mor development of a remuneration policy for the Group and specific Limited to the company.
remuneration requirements for certain officers and employees of the company.
Accordingly, instead of receiving cash as consideration for the issue of the B shares, at the conclusion of the B share issue the company HM Treasury has the right to appoint one or more step-in managers to owned the entire issued ordinary and redeemable preference share exercise extensive step-in rights in relation to all or some of the Covered capital of Aonach Mor Limited whose only assets are its cash reserves, Assets upon the occurrence of certain specified trigger events.
which represent an amount equivalent to the proceeds of the B share issue.
The company is able to utilise this amount equivalent to the B Certain Scheme Conditions are subject to modification at any time with share issue net proceeds by exercising its right of redemption over the retrospective effect at the discretion of HM Treasury without the redeemable preference shares it holds in Aonach Mor Limited.
The modification rights arise broadly and subject to certain conditions where the operation, interpretation or application of The Tax Loss Waiver such Scheme Conditions conflicts with any of the overriding general On 26 November 2009, the company entered into three agreements principles set out in the Scheme Conditions.
together comprising the Tax Loss Waiver which provide the right, at the companys option, subject to HM Treasury consent, to satisfy all or part There are material restrictions on the form and substance of of the annual fee in respect of the APS or the Contingent Subscription announcements or public statements including any required by law or arrangement, and the exit fee payable in connection with any the rules of any securities exchange made by the Group in relation to termination of the Groups termination in the APS but not the refund of the APS or to HM Treasury in connection with the APS without HM the net payments it has received from HM Treasury under the APS, by Treasurys consent.
waiving the entitlement to certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax assets.
The Tax Loss Waiver contains undertakings In connection with its participation in the APS, the company has agreed designed to prevent the Group from engaging in arrangements which to a number of behavioural commitments in respect of lending for have a main purpose of reducing the net cost to the Group of any businesses in the UK, personal current accounts in the UK as well as to waiver of tax reliefs pursuant to the Tax Loss Waiver.
develop and implement a capital optimisation exercise designed to increase the Groups Core Tier 1 capital.
368 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 369 Additional information State Aid Commitment Deed State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed As a result of the State aid granted to the company, it was required to Under the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the Group has agreed work with HM Treasury to submit a State aid restructuring plan to the to reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with European Commission, which has now been approved under the State the State aid and State aid approval.
The company has agreed a series of measures to be implemented over a four year period, which supplement the measures in Exchange Offers and Tender Offers the companys strategic plan.
Pursuant to two Dealer Management Agreements dated 26 March 2009 entered into between i RBS Financing Limited, the Royal Bank, UBS The Group entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury Limited and HSBC Bank plc and ii the company, RBS Financing which provides that the Group will comply or procure compliance with Limited, Greenwich Capital Markets Inc. UBS Securities LLC and HSBC these measures and behavioural commitments.
The Group agreed to do Securities USA Inc. and related offering memoranda dated the same all acts and things necessary to ensure HM Treasurys compliance with date, RBS Financing Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the its obligations under any European Commission decision approving company, invited 1 holders of certain existing Tier 1 capital and upper State aid to the Group.
Tier 2 capital securities of the Group to offer to exchange any or all of such securities for new senior unsecured notes of the company and The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides that if the European 2 holders of certain existing Tier 1 capital and upper Tier 2 capital Commission adopts a decision that the UK Government must recover securities of the Group to tender any or all of such securities for any State aid a Repayment Decision and the recovery order of the purchase for cash.
As a result of the exchange offers and tender offers, Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the Court the Group realised an aggregate pre-tax gain of 4.6 billion including of First Instance or the European Court of Justice, then the Group must gains from associated hedges.
repay HM Treasury any aid ordered to be recovered under the Repayment Decision.
Agreement by RBS Sempra Commodities to sell its metals, oil and European energy business lines The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides for the Groups On 16 February 2010, the company announced that RBS Sempra undertakings in respect of State aid to be modified in certain limited Commodities, a joint venture owned by RBS plc and Sempra Energy, circumstances.
However, HM Treasury has undertaken that it will not, had agreed to sell to J. P. Morgan its metals, oils and European energy without the consent of the Group, agree modifications to the Groups business lines for a total cash consideration equal to tangible net asset undertakings with respect to State aid which are significantly more value plus a premium of US$468 million, US$1.7 billion as at 30 onerous to the Group than those granted in order to obtain the State aid November 2009 unaudited, of which RBS's share post partner approval.
distributions will be approximately 47 per cent.
Completion of the transaction is subject to certain conditions including regulatory approvals.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 369
