Financial assets Loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with fixed or On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are investments: available-for-sale financial assets: held-for-trading: classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or loans and available-for-sale or as held-for-trading, or designated as at fair value receivables.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently Held-to-maturity investments a financial asset may be classified as a measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recognised at Available-for-sale financial assets that are not classified as held-tofair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see loss: or loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale.
accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
Financial assets can be designated as available-for-sale on initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at Held-for-trading a financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently acquired principally for sale in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio measured at fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a available-for-sale financial assets.
Impairment losses and exchange qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial assets are differences resulting from retranslating the amortised cost of foreign recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit currency monetary available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses profit or loss together with interest calculated using the effective interest on held-for-trading financial assets are recognised in profit or loss as method see accounting policy 3.
Other changes in the fair value of they arise.
available-for-sale financial assets are reported in a separate component of shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss Designated as at fair value through profit or loss financial assets may is recognised in profit or loss.
be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or Reclassifications held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial assets recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, that meet the definition of loans and receivables non-derivative financial financial liabilities or both, that the Group manages and evaluates on a assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an active market may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group embedded derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the contract.
foreseeable future or until maturity.
The Group typically regards the foreseeable future as twelve months from the date of reclassification.
Financial assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as Additionally, held-for-trading financial assets that do not meet the being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with definition of loans and receivables may, in rare circumstances, be transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are transferred to available-for-sale financial assets or to held-to-maturity subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial investments.
Reclassifications are made at fair value.
This fair value assets that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are becomes the assets new cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
Gains recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
and losses recognised up to the date of reclassification are not reversed.
The principal category of financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss is policyholders assets underpinning insurance Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans and and investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance receivables are recognised on settlement date: issues of equity or businesses.
Fair value designation significantly reduces the financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are recognised on measurement inconsistency that would arise if these assets were settlement date: all other regular way transactions in financial classified as available-for-sale.
instruments are recognised on trade date.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is quoted in an active market is the current bid price times the number of units of the instrument held.
Fair values for financial assets not quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques including discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial assets.
252 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
