GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 170 Business review continued Operational risk An objective of operational risk management is not to remove All the disclosures in this section pages 170 to 172 are unaudited and operational risk altogether, but to manage the risk to an acceptable indicated with an asterisk.
Operational risk is the potential for level, taking into account the cost of minimising the risk as against the financial loss, damage to reputation, or impact upon customers resulting resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk from fraud: human error: ineffective or inadequately designed include avoidance, transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
processes or systems: improper behaviour: or external events.
Operational risk is an integral and unavoidable part of the Groups To ensure appropriate responsibility is allocated for the management, business as it is inherent in the processes it operates to provide reporting and escalation of operational risk, the Group operates a three services to customers and generate profit for shareholders.
lines of defence model which outlines principles for the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for operational risk management.
Operational risk three lines of defence model 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence The Business Operational Risk Group Internal Audit Accountable for the ownership and Responsible for the implementation and Responsible for providing independent day-to-day management and control of maintenance of the operational risk assurance on the design, adequacy operational risk.
and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
Responsible for implementing processes Responsible for oversight and challenge in compliance with Group policies.
on the adequacy of the risk and control processes operating in the business.
Responsible for testing key controls and monitoring compliance with Group policies.
The three lines of defence model and the Operational Risk Policy Loss data management: each business units internal loss data Standards apply throughout the Group and are implemented taking into management process captures all operational risk loss events above account the nature and scale of the underlying business.
The standards certain minimum thresholds.
The data is used to enhance the provide the direction for delivering effective operational risk adequacy and effectiveness of controls, identify opportunities to management.
They comprise principles and processes that enable the prevent or reduce the impact of recurrence, identify emerging consistent identification, assessment, management, monitoring and themes, enable formal loss event reporting and inform risk and reporting of operational risk across the Group.
The objectives of the control assessments and scenario analysis.
Escalation of individual standards are to protect the Group from financial loss or damage to its events to senior management is determined by the seriousness of reputation, its customers or staff and to ensure that it meets all the event.
Operational loss events are categorised under the necessary regulatory and legal requirements.
following headings: The Operational Risk Policy Standards are supported by the following Clients, products and business practices: key operational risk management techniques: Technology and infrastructure failures: Employment practices and workplace safety: Risk and control assessments: business units identify and assess Internal fraud: operational risks to ensure that they are effectively managed, External fraud: prioritised, documented and aligned to risk appetite: Execution, delivery and process management: Malicious damage: and Scenario analysis: scenarios for operational risk are used to assess Disaster and public safety.
the possible impact of extreme but plausible operational risk loss events.
Scenario assessments provide a forward looking basis for Key risk indicators: business units monitor key risk indicators against managing exposures that are beyond the Groups risk appetite: their material risks.
These indicators are used to monitor the operational risk profile and exposure to losses against thresholds which trigger risk management actions: unaudited 170 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 151-173. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1B 09 15 3 10 09:23 Page 171 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management New product approval process: this process ensures that all new The Group purchases insurance to provide the business with financial products or significant variations to existing products are subject to a protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or comprehensive risk assessment.
Products are evaluated and contractual requirements.
Insurance is primarily used as an additional approved by specialist areas and are subject to executive approval risk mitigation tool in controlling the Groups exposures.
However, prior to launch: and insurance only provides protection against financial loss once a risk has crystallised.
Self Certification Process: this requires management to monitor and report regularly on the internal control framework for which they are Operational risk metrics responsible, confirming its adequacy and effectiveness.
This Reporting forms an integral part of operational risk management.
The includes certifying compliance with the requirements of Group Groups risk management processes are designed to ensure that issues policies.
are identified, escalated and managed on a timely basis.
Exposures for each division are reported through monthly risk and control reports, Each business unit must manage its operational risk exposure within an which provide detail on the risk exposures and action plans.
acceptable level, testing the adequacy and effectiveness of controls and other risk mitigants for example, insurance regularly and Events that have a material, actual or potential impact on the Groups documenting the results.
Where unacceptable control weaknesses are finances, reputation or customers, are escalated and reported to identified, action plans must be produced and tracked to completion.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total risk events by count The chart below shows that as at 31 December 2009 execution, delivery and process management, together with external fraud, accounted for circa 90% of losses by value during 2009.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 171
