Derecognition give it the right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities but A financial asset is derecognised when it has been transferred and the where it does not intend to settle the amounts net or simultaneously and transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires that the Group therefore the assets and liabilities concerned are presented gross.
either: a transfers the contractual rights to receive the assets cash flows: or b retains the right to the assets cash flows but assumes a 22.
Capital instruments contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to a third party.
After a The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks asset, financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
If substantially all substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is classified the risks and rewards have been retained, the asset remains on the as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another balance sheet.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on transferred, the asset is derecognised.
If substantially all the risks and potentially unfavourable terms.
An instrument is classified as equity if it rewards have been neither retained nor transferred, the Group assesses evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the whether or not it has retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained deduction of liabilities.
The components of a compound financial control, the asset is derecognised.
Where the Group has retained instrument issued by the Group are classified and accounted for control of the asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the extent of separately as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity as its continuing involvement.
A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the 23.
Derivatives and hedging obligation is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
On the redemption or Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and settlement of debt securities including subordinated liabilities issued subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are by the Group, the Group derecognises the debt instrument and records determined from quoted prices in active markets where available.
a gain or loss being the difference between the debts carrying amount Where there is no active market for an instrument, fair value is derived and the cost of redemption or settlement.
The same treatment applies from prices for the derivatives components using appropriate pricing where the debt is exchanged for a new debt issue that has terms or valuation models.
substantially different from those of the existing debt.
The assessment of whether the terms of the new debt instrument are substantially A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone different takes into account qualitative and quantitative characteristics derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the including a comparison of the discounted present value of the cash economic characteristics of the host contract: unless the entire contract flows under the new terms with the discounted present value of the is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit remaining cash flows of the original debt issue.
Sale and repurchase transactions Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a derivative Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under which are recognised as they arise in profit or loss unless the derivative is the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
The Group enters into three Group continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale types of hedge relationship: hedges of changes in the fair value of a proceeds recorded as a financial liability.
Securities acquired in a recognised asset or liability or firm commitment fair value hedges : reverse sale and repurchase transaction under which the Group is not hedges of the variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or exposed to substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are not liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges : recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is and hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually secured by documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging instrument cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
Borrowed securities are and details the risk that is being hedged and the way in which not recognised on the balance sheet or lent securities derecognised.
effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during the period of the Cash collateral received or given is treated as a loan or deposit: hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective in offsetting changes in fair collateral in the form of securities is not recognised.
However, where values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the securities borrowed are transferred to third parties, a liability for the documented risk management strategy, hedge accounting is obligation to return the securities to the stock lending counterparty is discontinued.
Fair value hedge in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 21.
Netting instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on the Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group loss and adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item.
Hedge currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for amounts: and it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the hedge accounting: or if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group is party to a terminated or exercised: or if hedge designation is revoked.
If the number of arrangements, including master netting agreements, that hedged item is one for which the effective interest rate method is used, any cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over the life of the hedged item using a recalculated effective interest rate.
254 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
