Foreign currencies Items of property, plant and equipment except investment property The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling see accounting policy 9 are stated at cost less accumulated which is the functional currency of the company.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the lives, they are accounted for separately.
foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis so as to into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment including assets owned and let on operating leases over their Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are reported in estimated useful lives.
income from trading activities except for differences arising on cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
NonThe depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined.
Translation differences arising on Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in profit or Short leaseholds unexpired period loss except for differences arising on available-for-sale non-monetary of the lease financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years available-for-sale reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item Computer equipment up to 5 years in a fair value hedge.
Other equipment 4 to 15 years The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling equipment at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment are average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment loss if any.
exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or are recognised directly in equity and included in profit or loss on its changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
does not generate cash flows that are independent from those of other assets or groups of assets, recoverable amount is determined for the 11.
Leases cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases if they transfer amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its substantially all the risk s and rewards of ownership of the asset to the value in use.
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from customer.
Other contracts to lease assets are classified as operating the asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects leases.
market interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cashgenerating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation of future Finance lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at the amount cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or tangible asset of the net investment in the lease being the minimum lease payments is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised and any unguaranteed residual value discounted at the interest rate immediately in profit or loss and the carrying value of the asset reduced implicit in the lease.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting by the amount of the loss.
A reversal of an impairment loss on periods so as to give a constant periodic rate of return before tax on the intangible assets excluding goodwill or property, plant and equipment net investment.
Unguaranteed residual values are subject to regular is recognised as it arises provided the increased carrying value does review to identify potential impairment.
If there has been a reduction in not exceed that which it would have been had no impairment loss been the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the income allocation is recognised.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
revised and any reduction in respect of amounts accrued is recognised immediately.
Investment property Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that Rental income from operating leases is credited to the income statement are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
It is not on a receivable basis over the term of the lease.
Operating lease assets depreciated but is stated at fair value based on valuations by are included within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over independent registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for their useful lives see accounting policy 7. similar properties in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
250 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
