Presentation of accounts of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis see page 211 of are included in the consolidated accounts at their fair value.
Any excess the Report of the directors and in accordance with International of the cost the fair value of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting and equity instruments issued by the Group plus any directly attributable Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International costs of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB as adopted recognised as goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at by the European Union EU together IFRS.
The EU has not adopted their share of the fair value of the subsidiarys net assets.
the complete text of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: it has relaxed some of the Standards hedging The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated requirements.
The Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation and income statement from the date control passes up until the Group ceases has adopted IAS 39 as issued by the IASB: the Groups financial to control them through a sale or significant change in circumstances.
statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements has eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are prepared introduced a number of changes in the format and content of the using uniform accounting policies.
Groups financial statements including a statement of changes in equity showing the components of changes in equity for the period as a 3.
Revenue recognition primary financial statement and a statement of comprehensive income Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and immediately following the income statement.
Additionally, the revised receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and interest expense standard has required the Group to present a third balance sheet 31 on financial liabilities other than those at fair value through profit or loss December 2007 as a result of the restatement of the Groups 2008 are determined using the effective interest method.
The effective interest income statement following the amendment to IFRS 2 see below.
method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected The IASB issued an amendment, 'Vesting Conditions and Cancellations', life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that to IFRS 2 'Share-based Payment' in January 2008 that changed the exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial accounting for share awards that have non-vesting conditions.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into value of these awards did not take account of the effect of non-vesting account fees payable or receivable, that are an integral part of the conditions and where such conditions were not subsequently met, costs instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early recognised up to the date of cancellation were reversed.
The amendment redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a requires costs not recognised up to the date of cancellation to be financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Retrospective application of the amendment caused a restatement of 2008 results for the Group, reducing profit by Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or designated as 169 million with no material effect on earlier periods: there was no effect at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value.
Changes in on the balance sheet.
There was no material effect on the company.
fair value are recognised in profit or loss together with dividends and interest receivable and payable.
The Group has adopted Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage of the Disclosures.
These amendments expand the disclosures required outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
will be entered into, such fees are taken to profit or loss over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland.
interest rate on the advance.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration financial instruments, held-for-trading financial assets and financial accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
The liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed investment property.
Recognised financial assets and financial liabilities and always determinable.
The application of this policy to significant fee in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value in respect of types is outlined below.
Payment services: this comprises income received for payment services The company accounts are presented in accordance with the including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House Automated Companies Act 2006.
Payments the UK electronic settlement system and BACS payments the automated clearing house that processes direct debits and direct 2.
These are generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities including certain special purpose entities income is earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for that are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the payment services are usually debited to the customers account monthly power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: or quarterly in arrears.
Accruals are raised for services provided but not generally conferred by holding a majority of voting rights.
On acquisition charged at period end.
248 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
