GRA 7 Share Info 09 370-388. qxp:GRA 7 Share Info 09 15 3 10 09:37 Page 382 Shareholder information continued Inheritance tax To qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing system, the regarding its licensing and activities.
The company believes that it UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in respect of a lifetime currently meets these requirements.
The companys possible status as a transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not domiciled nor deemed to PFIC must be determined annually, however, and may be subject to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax purposes: HM Revenue & change if the company fails to qualify under this special rule for any Customs is known to consider that the situs of securities held in this year in which a US Holder holds ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar manner is not necessarily determined by the place where the securities preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a charge to company were to be treated as a PFIC in any year during which a US UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at less than market Holder holds ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
Inheritance tax is not ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, US Holders would generally generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made more than seven be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences.
Holders years before the death of the donor.
However, exemption from, or a should consult their own tax advisers as to the potential application of reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate the PFIC rules to the ownership and disposition of the companys Tax Treaty see below.
US Holders should consult their professional ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary advisers in relation to such potential liability.
PROs beneficially owned by ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
an individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the Exchange controls UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, on a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in certain cases where the PRO decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the capital, including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a national of the the Group, or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK permanent non-UK resident holders of the companys securities.
establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US the companys securities.
federal estate or gift tax.
Memorandum and Articles of Association Stamp duty and SDRT The companys Memorandum and Articles of Association as in effect at No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of transfer or redemption of the PROs.
The Articles of Association were last amended on 15 December 2009.
Passive Foreign Investment Company considerations A foreign corporation will be a PFIC in any taxable year in which, after Incorporation and registration taking into account the income and assets of the corporation and The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the certain subsidiaries pursuant to applicable look-through rules, either i Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or ii at least 50% name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited.
On 10 March of the average value of its assets is attributable to assets which 1982, it changed its name to its present name and was registered under produce passive income or are held for the production of passive the Companies Acts 1948 to 2006 as a public company with limited income.
The company does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2009 liability.
The company is registered under Company No.
Although interest income is generally passive income, a special rule allows banks to treat their banking business income as nonCode of conduct passive.
As discussed on page 210, the Group has adopted a code of conduct applicable to all Group employees, which will be provided to any person without charge, upon request, by contacting Group Secretariat at the telephone number listed on page 388.
382 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
