GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 361 Additional information Supervision The Groups US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Banks United Kingdom US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the consolidated of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens NA is supervised by the supervisor of the Group.
As at 31 December 2009, 30 companies in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the Group excluding subsidiaries of ABN AMRO, spanning a range of regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
Citizens Bank financial services sectors banking, insurance and investment business, of Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US were authorised to conduct financial activities regulated by the FSA.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Insurance.
These banks represents The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal Bank, NatWest, approximately 80 percent and 20 percent of the assets of Citizens Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than Financial Group, respectively.
Citizens Financial Group is under the Group Treasury activities, are concentrated in the Groups Global supervision of the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company.
The Banking & Markets and Corporate Banking divisions, and are Royal Banks New York branch is supervised by the New York State undertaken under the names of the Royal Bank and NatWest.
UK retail Banking Department, and its Connecticut branch is supervised by the banking activities are managed by the UK Retail division.
The exception Connecticut Department of Banking.
Both branches are also subject to is Ulster Bank Limited, which is run as a separate division within the supervisory oversight by the Federal Reserve, through the Federal Group.
Ulster Bank Group will move to a single brand in the Republic of Reserve Bank of Boston.
Ireland, with First Active merging with Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank Limited provides banking services in Northern Ireland while the banking service The Groups US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, formerly in the Republic of Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is subject to regulation and and for the time being First Active plc, which are primarily supervised supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and by the Irish Financial Regulator.
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to Investment management business is principally undertaken by regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading companies in the Wealth Management division, including Coutts & Co, Commission CFTC and the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT.
The Adam & Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Global Group's US commodities business, RBS Sempra Commodities, has as Banking & Markets division, through RBS Asset Management Limited.
its primary regulator the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, with additional supervision provided by the Federal Energy Regulatory General insurance business is principally undertaken by Direct Line Commission FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Insurance plc and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
business is principally undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and National Westminster Life Assurance Limited in partnership with Aviva Netherlands plc.
The consolidated supervisor of ABN AMRO is the Dutch Central Bank, fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB.
The DNB operates as prudential The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on supervisor of banks, insurance companies and pension funds, and also financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and as part of the European System of Central Banks.
controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which they are subject.
Other jurisdictions The Group operates in over 50 countries through a network of branches, United States local banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject The Group is both a bank holding company and a financial holding to supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
company within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Regulatory developments and reviews Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Federal The Group works with domestic and international trade associations and Reserve.
Among other things, the Groups direct and indirect activities proactively engages with regulators and other authorities such as the and investments in the United States are limited to those that are Basel Committee, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors and financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial the EU Commission in order to understand the implications of proposed activity, as determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also regulatory change and to contribute to the development of regulatory required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before policy.
acquiring directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
The Group and its subsidiaries have co-operated fully with various Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a regulatory reviews and developments in the UK and internationally, source of financial strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other including enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches of things, this source of strength obligation could require the Group to regulations.
inject capital into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
United Kingdom In the UK, the Group has actively engaged with a large number of Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions legislative and regulatory consultations.
Reflecting global developments, regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial financial stability notably bank prudential requirements and depositor institutions and are rigorously enforced by US government agencies.
protection has been a key focus for the UK regulatory authorities.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 361
