Insurance Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as income General insurance when receivable.
Claims on long-term insurance contracts reflect the General insurance comprises short-duration contracts, principally cost of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling property and liability insurance contracts.
Due to the nature of the costs.
Claims are recognised when the Group becomes aware of the products sold retail-based property and casualty, motor, home and claim.
personal health insurance contracts the insurance protection is provided on an even basis throughout the term of the policy.
Reinsurance The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant insurance General insurance and reinsurance premiums are recognised in the risk.
Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated gross of accounting period in which they begin.
Unearned premiums represent reinsurance and a separate reinsurance asset recorded.
the proportion of the net premiums that relate to periods of insurance after the balance sheet date and are calculated over the period of 13.
Provisions exposure under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for The Group recognises a provision for a present obligation resulting from the estimated incidence of exposure under policies which are longer a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to than twelve months.
Provision is made where necessary for the transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation and the amount of the estimated amount of claims over and above unearned premiums obligation can be estimated reliably.
including that in respect of future written business on discontinued lines under the run-off of delegated underwriting authority arrangements.
The Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of provision is designed to meet future claims and related expenses and is redundancy, when the Group has a constructive obligation to calculated across related classes of business on the basis of a restructure.
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal separate carry forward of deferred acquisition expenses after making plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those allowance for investment income.
affected by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business for all classes are expensed over the period during which the premiums are If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it recognises the present earned.
The principal acquisition costs so deferred are commissions obligation under the contract as a provision.
An onerous contract is one payable, costs associated with the telesales and underwriting staff and where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under it exceed prepaid claims handling costs in respect of delegated claims handling the expected economic benefits.
When the Group vacates a leasehold arrangements for claims which are expected to occur after the balance property, a provision is recognised for the costs under the lease less sheet date.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the any expected economic benefits such as rental income.
accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the cost of settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or date, and claims handling expenses.
Provision is only discounted where present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised there is a contractual agreement to make periodic payments.
Related because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the reinsurance receivables are recognised on the same basis and at the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement Life assurance is remote.
The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life term assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, pension and 14.
Taxation annuity contracts that are expected to remain in force for an extended Provision is made for taxation at current enacted rates on taxable profits, period of time.
Long-term assurance contracts under which the Group arising in income or in equity, taking into account relief for overseas does not accept significant insurance risk are classified as financial taxation where appropriate.
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full for instruments.
all temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term assurance purposes, except in relation to overseas earnings where remittance is contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with in-force contracts and controlled by the Group, and goodwill.
related assets, including reinsurance cash flows, are projected, using appropriate assumptions as to future mortality, persistency and levels of Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable expenses and excluding the value of future investment margins, to that they will be recovered.
estimate future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a separate asset.
Changes in the value of this asset are included in profit or loss.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 251
