GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 361 Additional information Supervision The Groups US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Banks United Kingdom US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the consolidated of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens NA is supervised by the supervisor of the Group.
As at 31 December 2009, 30 companies in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the Group excluding subsidiaries of ABN AMRO, spanning a range of regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
Citizens Bank financial services sectors banking, insurance and investment business, of Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US were authorised to conduct financial activities regulated by the FSA.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Insurance.
These banks represents The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal Bank, NatWest, approximately 80 percent and 20 percent of the assets of Citizens Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than Financial Group, respectively.
Citizens Financial Group is under the Group Treasury activities, are concentrated in the Groups Global supervision of the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company.
The Banking & Markets and Corporate Banking divisions, and are Royal Banks New York branch is supervised by the New York State undertaken under the names of the Royal Bank and NatWest.
UK retail Banking Department, and its Connecticut branch is supervised by the banking activities are managed by the UK Retail division.
The exception Connecticut Department of Banking.
Both branches are also subject to is Ulster Bank Limited, which is run as a separate division within the supervisory oversight by the Federal Reserve, through the Federal Group.
Ulster Bank Group will move to a single brand in the Republic of Reserve Bank of Boston.
Ireland, with First Active merging with Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank Limited provides banking services in Northern Ireland while the banking service The Groups US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, formerly in the Republic of Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is subject to regulation and and for the time being First Active plc, which are primarily supervised supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and by the Irish Financial Regulator.
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to Investment management business is principally undertaken by regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading companies in the Wealth Management division, including Coutts & Co, Commission CFTC and the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT.
The Adam & Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Global Group's US commodities business, RBS Sempra Commodities, has as Banking & Markets division, through RBS Asset Management Limited.
its primary regulator the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, with additional supervision provided by the Federal Energy Regulatory General insurance business is principally undertaken by Direct Line Commission FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Insurance plc and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
business is principally undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and National Westminster Life Assurance Limited in partnership with Aviva Netherlands plc.
The consolidated supervisor of ABN AMRO is the Dutch Central Bank, fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB.
The DNB operates as prudential The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on supervisor of banks, insurance companies and pension funds, and also financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and as part of the European System of Central Banks.
controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which they are subject.
Other jurisdictions The Group operates in over 50 countries through a network of branches, United States local banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject The Group is both a bank holding company and a financial holding to supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
company within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Regulatory developments and reviews Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Federal The Group works with domestic and international trade associations and Reserve.
Among other things, the Groups direct and indirect activities proactively engages with regulators and other authorities such as the and investments in the United States are limited to those that are Basel Committee, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors and financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial the EU Commission in order to understand the implications of proposed activity, as determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also regulatory change and to contribute to the development of regulatory required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before policy.
acquiring directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
The Group and its subsidiaries have co-operated fully with various Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a regulatory reviews and developments in the UK and internationally, source of financial strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other including enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches of things, this source of strength obligation could require the Group to regulations.
inject capital into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
United Kingdom In the UK, the Group has actively engaged with a large number of Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions legislative and regulatory consultations.
Reflecting global developments, regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial financial stability notably bank prudential requirements and depositor institutions and are rigorously enforced by US government agencies.
protection has been a key focus for the UK regulatory authorities.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 361 GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 362 Additional information continued The Group participated fully in the consultation processes on the the Scheme of compensation to depositors.
The industry is expected to Banking Reform Bill and the Financial Services Bill.
It also engaged with have the prescribed Single Customer View in place by end-2010.
policymakers on Lord Turners Review, A regulatory response to the global banking crisis, and its associated consultations.
These set out a The FSA, in their 2009 10 Business Plan, emphasised the strengthening wide range of ideas and proposals, aimed at strengthening the of their focus on Treating Customers Fairly.
The Group continues to resilience of the banking system and addressing perceived shortundertake a process of continuous improvement of management comings in existing regulation, notably with respect to the quantum and information, and root cause analysis of customer issues, in order to quality of bank regulatory capital.
Many of these were subsequently demonstrate its commitment to treating customers fairly throughout the reflected in more detailed proposals issued by the Basel Committee on product lifecycle.
Banking Supervision in December 2009 see below.
The Group also continues to co-operate with the Information Linked to these issues is the policy debate over systemic banks.
The Commissioners Office, the UKs independent public body set up to Group has contributed to responses to a number of systemic bank promote access to official information and to protect personal proposals and is participating in the FSAs pilot for the development of information.
The Group continues to improve its processes in line with Recovery and Resolution Plans Living Wills.
It will be developing changing guidelines in order to meet information security requirements.
suitable Recovery and Resolution Plans in line with forthcoming regulatory requirements.
European Union Global developments In the EU, the Group has also responded to a number of proposals for Finally, the FSA has taken an active lead in implementing the G20s regulatory and legislative change, including further proposed principles on remuneration structures, introducing a Code on amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive and proposals for Remuneration Practices which formally took effect on 1 January 2010. establishing new EU regulatory authorities, which are aimed at During the second half of 2009, the Group engaged with FSA on its significantly strengthening EU level oversight and coordination of Code as it was developed, and put in place new governance processes national supervisors.
The Group also follows closely the work and and policies to deliver compliance.
More information on these aspects recommendations of the G7 and G20, as well as international standard can be found on page 225. setters such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
Of particular note was the Committees initial proposals for major changes In addition to the above, the Group continued to comment on other to the quality and quantum of banks regulatory capital, which were specific regulatory and legal changes that could impact its business.
The Group is actively reviewing these, Examples included the FSAs retail distribution and mortgage market which the Basel Committee is aiming to finalise by end-2010, for reviews: and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and HM implementation from end-2012 onwards.
Treasurys consumer reforms, including with respect to credit card markets.
United States In the US the Group engages constructively with regulators and other New requirements that took effect during the period under review bodies on regulatory and legislative change and seeks to ensure proper include the EUs Payment Services Directive PSD, which came into implementation and compliance.
Current issues include mortgage force on 1 November 2009, and the FSAs new liquidity regime for reform and student lending.
banks, whose systems and controls requirements took effect on 1 December 2009.
The PSD provides an extensive regulatory framework Other jurisdictions for European payments markets, by opening up the provision of The Group is active in monitoring regulatory developments in each payment services to non-bank providers: increasing consumer country in which it operates to ensure internal policies are sufficient to protection through new rules on execution times, transparency of ensure the effective management of regulatory risk.
information, liability and pricing: and regulating providers of payment services through licensing.
The new FSA liquidity regime will require Description of property and equipment much larger liquidity buffers to be held by specified banks, phased in The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in over a number of years.
At 31 December 2009, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 649 and 1,612 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot UK regulated firms within the Group are members of the Financial print of 238 branches and an extensive network of business banking Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, which provides compensation offices across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
US Retail & to eligible customers of authorised financial services firms that are Commercial had 1,512 retail banking offices including in-store unable to meet their obligations.
The FSCS is funded through annual branches covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, levies charged to UK regulated firms.
These levies are apportioned Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, between firms on the basis of their shares of the FSCS tariff base: in Rhode Island and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches the case of deposit takers, this means that levies are determined by are owned by the Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are their share of protected deposits.
As a result of FSCS involvement in a held under leases with unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Groups number of bank failures in 2008, there has been a significant impact on principal properties include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, levies charged to deposit takers, as reflected in the accounts.
Also a its principal offices in London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the significant aspect of RBS response to regulatory developments during Drummond House administration centre located at South Gyle, the year was addressing new requirements for banks to develop a Edinburgh.
single customer view systems capability, tailored to generate information required by FSCS in order to facilitate the early payment by 362 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
