GRA 5 FS Part1 09 239-299. qxp:GRA 5 FS part1 09 15 3 10 09:33 Page 255 Financial statements Cash flow hedge in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting and the ineffective portion in profit or loss.
When the forecast transaction policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity in the same periods in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss at that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable the same time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge Accounting Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and accounting: if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur: or information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS if hedge designation is revoked.
On the discontinuance of hedge dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the accounting except where a forecast transaction is no longer expected Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss in equity is recognised and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are in profit or loss when the hedged cash flow occurs or, if the forecast considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, liability, in the same periods during which the asset or liability affects assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group profit or loss.
Where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to would affect its reported results.
occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss in equity is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Loan impairment provisions The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation in the hedge of a net incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when differences arising on the hedging instrument determined to be an there is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is affected expected cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the recognised in profit or loss.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
of estimated future cash flows at the loans original effective interest rate.
Share-based payments At 31 December 2009, gross loans and advances to customers totalled The Group awards shares and options over shares in The Royal Bank of 745,519 million 2008 885,611 million: 2007 834,987 million and Scotland Group plc to its employees under various share option customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 17,126 million 2008 schemes.
The expense for these transactions is measured based on the 10,889 million: 2007 6,449 million.
fair value on the date the awards are granted.
The fair value of an option is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account There are two components to the Groups loan impairment provisions: its exercise price, its term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected individual and collective.
volatility of the market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plcs shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring Individual component all impaired loans that exceed specific fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the proportion of awards that thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the assessed loans principally comprise the Groups portfolio of commercial vesting period.
Following an amendment to IFRS 2 for accounting loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses are periods starting after 1 January 2009, the cancellation of an award with recognised as the difference between the carrying value of the loan non-vesting conditions triggers immediate recognition of an expense in and the discounted value of managements best estimate of future cash respect of any unrecognised element of the fair value of the award.
repayments and proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: the 25.
Cash and cash equivalents level and quality of its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand deposits with the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the realisable value banks together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily of any security held.
Estimating the quantum and timing of future convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of recoveries involves significant judgement.
The size of receipts will change in value.
depend on the future performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be affected by future economic conditions: 26.
Shares in Group entities additionally, collateral may not be readily marketable.
The actual amount The companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less any of future cash flows and the date they are received may differ from impairment.
these estimates and consequently actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 255 GRA 5 FS Part1 09 239-299. qxp:GRA 5 FS part1 09 15 3 10 09:33 Page 256 Accounting policies continued Collective component this is made up of two elements: loan Fair value financial instruments impairment provisions for impaired loans that are below individual Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at assessment thresholds collectively assessed provisions and for loan fair value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified available-for-sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
at the balance sheet date latent loss provisions.
Collectively assessed All derivatives are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from provisions are established on a portfolio basis using a present value changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as held-formethodology taking into account the level of arrears, security, past loss trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included experience, credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The in the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-formost significant factors in establishing these provisions are the sale financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an expected loss rates and the related average life.
These portfolios impairment loss is recognised.
include credit card receivables and other personal advances including mortgages.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to Financial instruments measured at fair value include: uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include Loans and advances held-for-trading and designated as at fair value the economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect on though profit or loss principally comprise reverse repurchase customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and agreements reverse repos and cash collateral.
Latent loss provisions are held against estimated impairment losses in the performing portfolio that have yet to be Debt securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though profit identified as at the balance sheet date.
To assess the latent loss within or loss and available-for-sale debt securities include those issued by its portfolios, the Group has developed methodologies to estimate the governments, municipal bodies, mortgage agencies and financial time that an asset can remain impaired within a performing portfolio institutions as well as corporate bonds, debentures and residual before it is identified and reported as such.
Pensions Equity securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as profit or loss and available-for-sale comprise equity shares of described in Note 4 on the accounts.
The assets of the schemes are companies or corporations both listed and unlisted.
measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of Deposits by banks and customer accounts held-for-trading and projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the designated as at fair value though profit or loss deposits measured at best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the scheme fair value principally include repurchase agreements repos, cash liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate applicable collateral and investment contracts issued by the Groups life assurance to high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the businesses.
Any recognisable surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or Debt securities in issue held-for-trading and designated as at fair value liability deficit.
In determining the value of scheme liabilities, though profit or loss measured at fair value and principally comprise assumptions are made as to price inflation, dividend growth, pension medium term notes.
increases, earnings growth and employees.
There is a range of assumptions that could be adopted in valuing the schemes liabilities.
Short positions held-for-trading arise in dealing and market making Different assumptions could significantly alter the amount of the surplus activities where debt securities and equity shares are sold which the or deficit recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged Group does not currently possess.
The assumptions adopted for the Groups pension schemes are set out in Note 4 on the accounts together with Derivatives these include swaps currency swaps, interest rate swaps, the sensitivity of reported amounts to changes in those assumptions.
A credit default swaps, total return swaps and equity and equity index pension asset of 58 million and a liability of 2,963 million were swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, forward rate recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2009 2008: asset agreements, futures currency, interest rate and equity and options 36 million, liability 2,032 million: 2007 asset 575 million, liability exchange-traded options on currencies, interest rates and equities and 460 million.
equity indices and OTC currency and equity options, interest rate caps and floors and swaptions.
256 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 5 FS Part1 09 239-299. qxp:GRA 5 FS part1 09 15 3 10 09:33 Page 257 Financial statements Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and length transaction.
Fair values are determined from quoted prices in liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where judgement: for example those financial assets and liabilities for which these are available.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset there are no quoted prices, and those non-financial assets where or financial liability in an active market is the current bid or offer price valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
times the number of units of the instrument held.
Where a trading Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and portfolio contains both financial assets and financial liabilities which are to the post-acquisition performance of the acquisition.
Goodwill is not derivatives of the same underlying instrument, fair value is determined amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if by valuing the gross long and short positions at current mid market events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
prices, with an adjustment at portfolio level to the net open long or short position to amend the valuation to bid or offer as appropriate.
Where the For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or using a valuation technique.
These valuation techniques involve a groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instruments combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of complexity and the availability of market-based data.
More details about the carrying value of a cash-generating unit or group of cashthe Groups valuation methodologies and the sensitivity to reasonably generating units with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is possible alternative assumptions of the fair value of financial the higher of the units fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the instruments valued using techniques where at least one significant input present value of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating is unobservable are given in Note 11 on pages 270 to 291. unit or group of cash-generating units.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the cash-generating unit in an arms length General insurance claims transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding claims arising from its general insurance business at the balance sheet Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the reported at that date and claims handling expenses.
General insurance normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the claims provisions amounted to 5,802 million at 31 December 2009 discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of 2008 5,478 million: 2007 5,466 million.
cash-generating units: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Sensitivity to changes Provisions are determined by management based on experience of in assumptions is discussed in Note 17 on page 303. claims settled and on statistical models which require certain assumptions to be made regarding the incidence, timing and amount of Deferred tax claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In The Group makes provision for deferred tax on short-term and other order to calculate the total provision required, the historical development temporary differences where tax recognition occurs at a different time of claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, within from accounting recognition.
Deferred tax assets of 7,039 million were acceptable probability parameters, the value of outstanding claims at recognised as at 31 December 2009 2008 7,082 million: 2007 the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding 3,119 million.
claims are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor used for bodily injury claims which is based on historical trends and, therefore, The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses, allows for some increase due to changes in common law and statute.
principally in the UK, and short-term timing differences.
Deferred tax Costs for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are also assets are recognised in respect of unused tax losses to the extent that included.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same it is probable that there will be future taxable profits against which the accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
The losses can be utilised.
Business projections prepared for impairment outstanding claims provision is based on information available to reviews see Note 17 indicate that sufficient future taxable income will management and the eventual outcome may vary from the original be available against which to offset these recognised deferred tax assessment.
Actual claims experience may differ from the historical assets within eight years.
The number of years into the future for which pattern on which the estimate is based and the cost of settling forecast profits should be considered when assessing the recoverability individual claims may exceed that assumed.
of a deferred tax asset is a matter of judgment.
A period of eight years is underpinned by the Groups business projections, its history of Goodwill profitable operation and the continuing strength of its core business The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, franchises.
The Groups cumulative losses are principally attributable to as discussed in accounting policy 6.
The carrying value of goodwill as the recent unparalleled market conditions.
Deferred tax assets of 2,163 at 31 December 2009 was 14,264 million 2008 15,562 million: 2007 million 2008 1,748 million: 2007 687 million have not been 42,953 million.
recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward in jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future taxable profits.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 257
