GRA 5 FS Part1 09 239-299. qxp:GRA 5 FS part1 09 15 3 10 09:33 Page 255 Financial statements Cash flow hedge in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting and the ineffective portion in profit or loss.
When the forecast transaction policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity in the same periods in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss at that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable the same time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge Accounting Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and accounting: if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur: or information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS if hedge designation is revoked.
On the discontinuance of hedge dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the accounting except where a forecast transaction is no longer expected Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss in equity is recognised and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are in profit or loss when the hedged cash flow occurs or, if the forecast considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, liability, in the same periods during which the asset or liability affects assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group profit or loss.
Where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to would affect its reported results.
occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss in equity is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Loan impairment provisions The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation in the hedge of a net incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when differences arising on the hedging instrument determined to be an there is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is affected expected cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the recognised in profit or loss.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
of estimated future cash flows at the loans original effective interest rate.
Share-based payments At 31 December 2009, gross loans and advances to customers totalled The Group awards shares and options over shares in The Royal Bank of 745,519 million 2008 885,611 million: 2007 834,987 million and Scotland Group plc to its employees under various share option customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 17,126 million 2008 schemes.
The expense for these transactions is measured based on the 10,889 million: 2007 6,449 million.
fair value on the date the awards are granted.
The fair value of an option is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account There are two components to the Groups loan impairment provisions: its exercise price, its term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected individual and collective.
volatility of the market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plcs shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring Individual component all impaired loans that exceed specific fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the proportion of awards that thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the assessed loans principally comprise the Groups portfolio of commercial vesting period.
Following an amendment to IFRS 2 for accounting loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses are periods starting after 1 January 2009, the cancellation of an award with recognised as the difference between the carrying value of the loan non-vesting conditions triggers immediate recognition of an expense in and the discounted value of managements best estimate of future cash respect of any unrecognised element of the fair value of the award.
repayments and proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: the 25.
Cash and cash equivalents level and quality of its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand deposits with the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the realisable value banks together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily of any security held.
Estimating the quantum and timing of future convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of recoveries involves significant judgement.
The size of receipts will change in value.
depend on the future performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be affected by future economic conditions: 26.
Shares in Group entities additionally, collateral may not be readily marketable.
The actual amount The companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less any of future cash flows and the date they are received may differ from impairment.
these estimates and consequently actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 255
