Impairment of financial assets reversed through profit or loss, but those on available-for-sale debt The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets objectively related to a subsequent event.
classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or loans and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired 17.
Financial liabilities and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified into held-for-trading: event or events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or amortised cost.
affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
Held for trading a financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it Financial assets carried at amortised cost if there is objective is incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for financial assets classified as loans and receivables or as held-towhich there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative maturity investments has been incurred, the Group measures the not in a qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of liabilities are recognised at fair value with transaction costs being the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective value.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
Designated as at fair value through profit or loss financial liabilities may Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such individually significant and individually or collectively for assets that are designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or not individually significant.
In making collective assessment of recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and evaluates on a similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss embedded derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the carrying transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If, in a subsequent liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once The principal categories of financial liabilities designated as at fair value an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group through profit or loss are a structured liabilities issued by the Group: of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying designation significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows between these liabilities and the related derivatives carried at fair value: were discounted in measuring impairment.
and b investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses: fair value designation significantly reduces the Impaired loans and receivables are written off, i. e. the impairment measurement inconsistency that would arise if these liabilities were provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value partially or measured at amortised cost.
in full, when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or all of the loan.
For portfolios that are Amortised cost all other financial liabilities are measured at amortised collectively assessed for impairment, the timing of write off principally cost using the effective interest method see accounting policy 3. reflects historic recovery experience for each portfolio.
For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write off is Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is quoted in determined on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans are reviewed regularly an active market is the current offer price times the number of units of and write offs will be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, restructuring the instrument held or issued.
Fair values for financial liabilities not and similar events.
Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation are credited to the loan impairment charge for the period in which they techniques including discounting future cash flows, option pricing are received.
models and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial liabilities.
Financial assets carried at fair value when a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been recognised 18.
Loan commitments directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is Provision is made for loan commitments, other than those classified as impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in held-for-trading, if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and the profit or loss.
The loss is measured as the difference between the resulting loan will be recognised at a value less than the cash amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Syndicated loan commitments in excess of the level of Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity instruments are not lending under the commitment approved for retention by the Group are classified as held-for-trading and measured at fair value.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 253
