GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 228 Directors remuneration report continued Annual incentives In 2009, executive directors received long-term incentives under two Annual incentives awarded to executive directors in respect of 2009 plans, the Medium Term Performance Plan MPP and the Executive performance will be granted under the terms of the new deferral plan Share Option Plan ESOP.
Both plans contain clawback provisions that which was approved by shareholders in December 2009.
In respect allow the Remuneration Committee to exercise its discretion over the of 2009, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the annual incentive vesting of awards made in 2009.
More information on both of the plans payments for executive directors, taking into account performance can be found on pages 233 to 235. against targets for the year and targets relating to the strategic plan.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee proposed annual incentive Shareholder approval will be sought at the Annual General Meeting on payments for Stephen Hester, Gordon Pell and Bruce Van Saun.
28 April 2010 for a new long-term incentive plan, to replace the above plans.
The key design features of this plan are outlined on pages 226 The Group Chief Executive, Stephen Hester, has declined his annual and 227. performance bonus for 2009 in the light of the public controversy currently prevailing on pay and the potential impediment taking such For executive directors, the proposed performance conditions focus on an award might have on support for the RBS turnaround which he shareholder value, while factoring in the growing regulatory emphasis was hired 15 months ago to lead.
The Remuneration Committee, on risk-adjusted financial metrics.
The proposal for awards in 2010 is considers that Stephen Hester significantly outperformed the targets he that 50% of each award vesting is based on improvement in economic was set for 2009 and intended to award a bonus commensurate with profit, 25% is based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and 25% that view.
In the light of Stephen Hesters request, but mindful of the is based on absolute TSR.
There will also be an underpin whereby importance of the turnaround plan delivery that he was hired to achieve, vesting levels may be adjusted depending on risk performance and no bonus will be awarded to him in respect of 2009.
However, it remains achievements related to the strategic plan objectives.
the Boards intention over the course of the recovery period to reward the Group Chief Executive fairly, appropriately and at market levels for It is anticipated that awards under the new long-term incentive plan will achievement against the targets we have published to make the bank be made to executive directors following shareholder approval of the safe, successful and valuable again.
Awards to executive directors will have a normal maximum limit of 400% of salary.
In the event of exceptional circumstances and if the The Deputy Group Chief Executive, Gordon Pell, has also requested to award policy for executive directors were to be increased from this level, waive his annual bonus for 2009, and in light of his request the Board shareholder consultation would be undertaken.
has agreed that no bonus will be awarded to him in respect of 2009 performance.
Shareholding guidelines The Group operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
The Executive directors have a normal maximum annual incentive target shareholding level is 200% of gross annual salary for the Group opportunity of between 160% and 200% of salary with an exceptional Chief Executive and 100% of gross annual salary for executive maximum opportunity of 200-250% of salary.
Executive directors have a period of five years in which to is 107% to 133% of salary.
build up their shareholdings to meet the guideline levels.
Any incentive payments to executive directors in 2010 will reflect Chairman Philip Hampton performance across five performance categories: Strategic Direction, Following consultation with UKFI and other major shareholders, it was Finance and Operations, Stakeholders, Risk, Efficiency and Control and agreed that Philip Hampton would receive a one-off restricted stock Capability and Development.
Group business unit and functional award on his appointment as Chairman.
This award is in the form of nil performance will be considered as appropriate.
The award was made on 27 February 2009 over will apply.
These will vest, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Long-term incentives The performance conditions include measures on effective governance The Group provides long-term incentives which are designed to link and stewardship of RBS, relationships with key stakeholders and reward with the long-term success of the RBS Group.
The awards are a delivery of value and return to shareholders.
significant investment in individuals by the RBS Group, and recognise the responsibility those participants have in driving its future success In assessing performance to determine the vesting of this award, the and for delivering share price growth.
Remuneration Committee will consider a number of factors which demonstrate whether Philip Hampton has led the successful and sustainable rebuilding of the Group.
The Committee will also require to be satisfied that the vesting level is commensurate with the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Philip Hampton has voluntarily agreed that he will retain at least half of the vested shares for a further period of 12 months after the vesting date.
This reflects his personal commitment to driving the Groups performance over the longer term.
228 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
