GRA 6 Add Info 09 349-369. qxp:GRA 6 Add Info 09 15 3 10 09:36 Page 363 Additional information Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, Underwriting Agreement computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2009 On 22 April 2008, the company, Goldman Sachs International, Merrill was 1,215 million 2008 1,406 million: 2007 1,792 million.
Lynch International, UBS and the Royal Bank entered into an underwriting agreement, pursuant to which Merrill Lynch International, Major shareholders Goldman Sachs International and UBS agreed to procure subscribers Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary, B and for, or failing which themselves to subscribe for, ordinary shares not preference shares are given on page 213. taken up under the Rights Issue, in each case at the relevant issue price.
Pursuant to the underwriting agreement, the company agreed to In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury pay certain fees and expenses to Merrill Lynch International, Goldman HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing Sachs International and UBS in consideration for their underwriting 57.92% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
The company gave certain representations and warranties HM Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising and indemnities to those persons defined as underwriters in the their holding to 70.3% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
The liabilities of the company were uncapped as to time and amount.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the company representing the entire issued B share capital.
Sale of Angel Trains On 6 August 2008, the company completed the sale of Angel Trains Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in Group to a consortium advised by Babcock & Brown for an enterprise the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the companys value of 3.6 billion.
ordinary, B and preference shares during the three years ended 24 February 2010.
All shareholders within a class of the companys Sale of Tesco Personal Finance shares have the same voting rights.
On 28 July 2008, the company announced that it had agreed to sell its 50 per cent.
shareholding in Tesco Personal Finance to its joint venture At 24 February 2010, the directors of the company had options to partner Tesco plc for a cash consideration of 950 million, subject to purchase a total of 12,138,546 ordinary shares of the company.
As part of this transaction, the company agreed to continue to provide certain commercial services to Tesco As at 31 December 2009, almost all of the companys US$ denominated Personal Finance post-completion.
The sale completed on 19 December preference shares and American Depository Shares representing 2008. ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
All other shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered First Placing and Open Offer Agreement outside the US.
Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement effective as of 13 October 2008 entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch Material contracts International and HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the qualifying shareholders to apply to acquire new shares at the issue ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: price of 65.5 pence by way of the First Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA and joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and procure placees to acquire the new shares at not less than the issue RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to price of 65.5 pence on such terms as agreed by HM Treasury on the the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired basis that the new shares placed were subject to clawback to the extent Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded they were taken up under the First Open Offer and iii HM Treasury to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank agreed that, to the extent not placed or taken up under the First Open Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered Offer and subject to the terms and conditions set out in the First Placing into between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, and Open Offer Agreement, HM Treasury would acquire such new Santander and the Dutch State.
The CSA governs the relationships shares itself at the issue price of 65.5 pence.
amongst the parties thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO.
The CSA details, inter alia, the funding of RFS In consideration of its services under the First Placing and Open Offer Holdings in connection with the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the equity Agreement, HM Treasury was paid i a commission of 0.5 per cent.
of interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS Holdings both before the aggregate value of the new shares at the issue price of 65.5 pence and after the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the arrangements for the per new share payable on Admission as defined in the First Placing transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets and liabilities to the and Open Offer Agreement and the second business day after the day Dutch State previously Fortis Bank Nederland, the company and on which the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement terminated and Santander post-acquisition of ABN AMRO, further funding obligations of ii a further commission of 1 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the the Dutch State, the company and Santander after the acquisition of new shares acquired by placees including HM Treasury at the issue ABN AMRO where funding is required by regulatory authorities in price of 65.5 pence per new share payable on Admission as defined in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation of Core Tier the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The company paid all 1 capital and the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs.
legal and other costs and expenses of HM Treasury, those of UBS and Merrill Lynch International properly incurred and the costs and expenses of HM Treasurys financial advisers incurred in connection with the First Placing and Open Offer and the preference share issue.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 363
