GRA 5 FS Part1 09 239-299. qxp:GRA 5 FS part1 09 15 3 10 09:33 Page 258 Accounting policies continued Accounting developments is classified on the basis of the entitys business model for managing International Financial Reporting Standards the financial asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the The International Accounting Standards Board IASB published a financial asset.
Only assets with contractual terms that give rise to cash revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and related revisions to IAS 27 flows on specified dates that are solely payments of principal and Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements following the interest on the principal amount outstanding and which are held within a completion in January 2008 of its project on the acquisition and business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect disposal of subsidiaries.
The standards improve convergence with US contractual cash flows are classified as amortised cost.
All other GAAP and provide new guidance on accounting for changes in interests financial assets are measured at fair value.
Changes in the value of in subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition will comprise only financial assets measured at fair value are generally taken to profit or consideration paid to vendors for equity: other costs will be expensed loss.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 immediately.
Groups will only account for goodwill on acquisition of a January 2013: early application is permitted.
subsidiary: subsequent changes in interest will be recognised in equity and only on a loss of control will there be a profit or loss on disposal to This standard makes major changes to the framework for the be recognised in income.
The changes are effective for accounting classification and measurement of financial assets and will have a periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 but both standards may be significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
The Group is adopted together for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July assessing this impact which is likely to depend on the outcome of the 2007.
These changes will affect the Groups accounting for future other phases of IASBs IAS 39 replacement project.
acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries.
The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC The IASB issued amendments to a number of standards in April 2009 issued interpretation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to as part of its annual improvements project.
The amendments are Owners and the IASB made consequential amendments to IFRS 5 Noneffective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and are Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations in December not expected to have a material effect on the Group or the company.
The interpretation requires distributions to be presented at fair value with any surplus or deficit recognised in income.
The amendment The IASB issued an amendment, Group Cash-settled Share-based to IFRS 5 extends the definition of disposal groups and discontinued Payment Transactions, to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in June 2009 operations to disposals by way of distribution.
The interpretation is that will change the accounting for share awards by permitting effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, to be accounting for equity settlement only by entities that either grant awards adopted at the same time as IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised over their own equity or have no obligation to settle a share-based 2008, and is not expected to have a material effect on the company.
The amendment is effective for annual periods The interpretation may affect the accounting treatment in the Group's beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and is not expected to have a financial statements of the ABN AMRO businesses to be acquired by material effect on the Group or the company.
the State of Netherlands following the reorganisation of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. described in Note 16.
The IASB published an amendment Classification of Rights Issues to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and consequential revisions The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from to other standards in October 2009 to improve the accounting for issues Customers in January 2009.
The interpretation addresses the of equity for consideration fixed other than in the reporting entitys accounting by suppliers for assets received from customers, requiring functional currency.
The amendment is effective for annual periods such assets to be measured at fair value.
The interpretation is effective beginning on or after 1 February 2010 but it may be adopted earlier.
It is for assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009 and is not not expected to have a material affect on the Group or the company.
expected to have a material effect on the Group or the company.
The IASB reissued IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, in November The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial 2009 clarifying the existing standard and to provide certain exemptions Liabilities with Equity Instruments in December 2009.
The interpretation for entities under government control.
The revised standard is effective clarifies that the profit or loss on extinguishing liabilities by issuing equity for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. instruments should be measured by reference to fair value, preferably of the equity instruments.
The interpretation, effective for the Group for The IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in November 2009 annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, is not expected to simplifying the classification and measurement requirements in IAS 39 have a material effect on the Group or the company.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in respect of financial assets.
The standard reduces the measurement categories for financial assets to two: fair value and amortised cost.
A financial asset 258 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
