GRA 5 FS Part2 09 300-348. qxp:GRA 5 FS part2 09 15 3 10 09:35 Page 332 Notes on the accounts continued 32 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Groups expectation of future losses.
Group More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m m m Contingent liabilities: Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 23,995 6,354 2,821 6,838 40,008 49,262 46,441 Other contingent liabilities 6,057 3,265 1,103 3,587 14,012 22,275 15,479 30,052 9,619 3,924 10,425 54,020 71,537 61,920 Commitments: Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend less than one year 127,423 127,423 166,572 181,914 one year and over 19,864 80,906 37,238 26,203 164,211 185,826 150,897 Other commitments 2,597 77 11 3,322 6,007 9,326 5,368 149,884 80,983 37,249 29,525 297,641 361,724 338,179 Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been Commitments entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are Commitments to lend under a loan commitment the Group agrees to corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in assets and make funds available to a customer in the future.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit loss, in the event of which are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally non-performance by the other party and where all counterclaims, cancellable or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan facility are collateral or security proves valueless, is represented by the contractual satisfied or waived.
Commitments to lend include commercial standby nominal amount of these instruments included in the table above.
These facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits commitments and contingent obligations are subject to the Groups and unutilised overdraft facilities.
Other commitments these include documentary credits, which are Contingent liabilities commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a Guarantees the Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group forward asset purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note will meet a customers obligations to third parties if the customer fails to issuance and revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade do so.
The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay related transactions.
under a guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
332 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 5 FS Part2 09 300-348. qxp:GRA 5 FS part2 09 15 3 10 09:35 Page 333 Financial statements Notes on the accounts Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided in the accounts The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end.
Group 2009 2008 2007 m m m Operating leases Minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases 1 Within 1 year 479 579 359 After 1 year but within 5 years 1,691 1,727 1,224 After 5 years 3,055 3,299 3,017 5,225 5,605 4,600 Property, plant and equipment Contracts to buy, enhance or maintain investment properties 79 Contracts to buy assets to be leased under operating leases 2 2,724 6,063 1,350 Other capital expenditure 89 128 201 2,813 6,198 1,560 Contracts to purchase goods or services 3 665 2,127 1,598 Total 8,703 13,930 7,758 Notes: 1 Predominantly property leases 2 Of which due within 1 year: 370 million 2008 3,769 million: 2007 713 million 3 Of which due within 1 year: 480 million 2008 1,129 million: 2007 1,448 million Trustee and other fiduciary activities The FSCS will receive funds from asset sales, surplus cash flow, or other In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold recoveries in relation to these institutions which will be used to reduce or place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension the principal amount of the FSCS's borrowings.
Only after the interest schemes and others.
The assets and their income are not included only period, which is expected to end in September 2011, will a schedule in the Groups financial statements.
The Group earned fee income for repayment of any remaining principal outstanding after recoveries of 1,355 million 2008 1,442 million: 2007 695 million from on the borrowings be agreed between the FSCS and HM Treasury.
expected that, from that point, the FSCS will begin to raise compensation levies principal repayments.
No provision has been made for these The Financial Services Compensation Scheme levies as the amount is not yet known and is unlikely to be determined The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's before 2011. statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its The Group has accrued 135 million for its share of FSCS management obligations.
The FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising expenses levies for the 2009 10 and 2010 11 scheme years.
management expenses levies and compensation levies on the industry.
In relation to protected deposits, each deposit-taking institution Litigation contributes towards these levies in proportion to their share of total As a participant in the financial services industry, the Group operates in protected deposits on 31 December of the year preceding the scheme a legal and regulatory environment that exposes it to potentially year which runs from 1 April to 31 March, subject to annual maxima significant litigation risks.
As a result, the company and other members set by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
In addition, the FSCS has of the Group are involved in various disputes and legal proceedings in the power to raise levies exit levies on firms who have ceased to the United Kingdom, the United States and other jurisdictions, including participate in the scheme and are in the process of ceasing to be litigation.
Such cases are subject to many uncertainties, and their authorised for the amount that the firm would otherwise have been outcome is often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages of a asked to pay during the relevant levy year.
The FSCS also has the power case.
to raise exit levies on such firms which look at their potential liability to pay levies in future years.
Other than as set out in this section, so far as the Group is aware, neither the company nor any member of the Group is or has been FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund the compensation costs engaged in or has pending or threatened any governmental, legal or associated with Bradford & Bingley, Heritable Bank, Kaupthing Singer & arbitration proceedings which may have or have had in the recent past Friedlander, Landsbanki Icesave and London Scottish Bank plc.
These covering the 12 months immediately preceding the date of this borrowings are on an interest-only basis until September 2011.
The document a significant effect on the Groups financial position or annual limit on the FSCS management expenses levy for the three years profitability.
from September 2008 in relation to these institutions has been capped at 1 billion per annum.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 333 GRA 5 FS Part2 09 300-348. qxp:GRA 5 FS part2 09 15 3 10 09:35 Page 334 Notes on the accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued Other securitisation and securities related litigation in the Unarranged overdraft charges United States In common with other banks in the United Kingdom, the Royal Bank and Group companies have been named as defendants in a number of NatWest have received claims and complaints from a large number of purported class action and other lawsuits in the United States that relate customers in the United Kingdom seeking refunds of unarranged to the securitisation and securities underwriting businesses.
In general, overdraft charges the Charges.
The vast majority of these claims and the cases involve the issuance of mortgage backed securities, complaints have challenged the Charges on the basis that they collateralised debt obligations, or public debt or equity where the contravene the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 plaintiffs have brought actions against the issuers and underwriters of the Regulations or are unenforceable under the common law penalty such securities including Group companies claiming that certain doctrine or both.
disclosures made in connection with the relevant offerings of such securities were false or misleading with respect to alleged sub-prime In July 2007, the Office of Fair Trading OFT issued proceedings in a mortgage exposure.
The Group considers that it has substantial and test case in the English High Court against the banks which was credible legal and factual defences to these claims and will continue to intended to determine certain issues concerning the legal status and defend them vigorously.
The Group cannot at this stage reliably estimate enforceability of contractual terms relating to the Charges.
The test case the liability, if any, that may arise as a result of or in connection with the concluded in November 2009 with a judgment of the Supreme Court in these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, or their effect on the favour of the banks.
As a result of the court rulings made in the test Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any case, the Group expects substantially all of the customer claims and particular period.
complaints it has received relating to the Charges to fail.
The Group cannot at this stage predict with any certainty the final outcome of all World Online International NV.
It is unable reliably to estimate any In November 2009 the Supreme Court in the Netherlands gave a liability that may arise as a result of or in connection with these matters declaratory judgment against World Online International NV, Goldmans or its effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or Sachs International and ABN AMRO Bank NV in relation to claims cash flows in any particular period arising out of the World Online initial public offering of 2000.
these defendants had committed certain wrongful acts in connection Shareholder litigation with the initial public offering.
The judgment does not establish liability The company and a number of its subsidiaries and certain individual or the amount of any loss.
The Group does not believe that any final officers and directors have been named as defendants in a class action liability or loss will have a significant effect on the Groups financial filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New position or profitability.
The consolidated amended complaint alleges certain false and misleading statements and omissions in public filings and other Summary of other disputes, legal proceedings and litigation communications during the period 1 March 2007 to 19 January 2009, Members of the Group are engaged in other litigation in the United and variously asserts claims under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United Securities Act 1933, Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act States, involving claims by and against them arising in the ordinary 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
The Group has reviewed these other actual, threatened and known potential claims and proceedings and, after The putative class is composed of 1 all persons who purchased or consulting with its legal advisers, does not expect that the outcome of otherwise acquired Group securities between 1 March 2007 and 19 these other claims and proceedings will have a material adverse effect January 2009: and or 2 all persons who purchased or otherwise on the Groups financial position or profitability in any particular period.
acquired Series Q, R, S, T and or U non-cumulative dollar preference shares issued pursuant or traceable to the 8 April 2005 SEC registration Investigations statement and were damaged thereby.
Plaintiffs seek unquantified The Groups businesses and financial condition can be affected by the damages on behalf of the putative class.
fiscal or other policies and other actions of various governmental and regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union, the The Group has also received notification of similar prospective claims in United States and elsewhere.
The Group has engaged, and will the United Kingdom and elsewhere but no court proceedings have continue to engage, in discussions with relevant regulators, including in been commenced in relation to these claims.
the United Kingdom and the United States, on an ongoing and regular basis informing them of operational, systems and control evaluations The Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and and issues as deemed appropriate or required and it is possible that factual defences to these claims and will defend them vigorously.
The any matters discussed or identified may result in investigatory actions by Group is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that might arise or the regulators, increased costs being incurred by the Group, its effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or remediation of systems and controls, public or private censure or fines.
cash flows in any particular period.
Any of these events or circumstances could have a material adverse impact on the Group, its business, reputation, results of operations or the price of securities issued by it.
334 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 5 FS Part2 09 300-348. qxp:GRA 5 FS part2 09 15 3 10 09:35 Page 335 Financial statements Notes on the accounts In particular there is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of the The outcome of these investigations is not known, but they may have an operation of the retail banking and consumer credit industries in the impact on the consumer credit industry in general and, therefore, on the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
The nature and impact of future Groups business in this sector.
changes in policies and regulatory action are not predictable and are beyond the Groups control but could have an adverse impact on the Payment Protection Insurance Groups businesses and earnings.
Having conducted a market study relating to Payment Protection Insurance PPI, on 7 February 2007 the OFT referred the PPI market Retail banking to the Competition Commission CC for an in-depth inquiry.
The CC In the European Union, regulatory actions included an inquiry into retail published its final report on 29 January 2009 and announced its banking initiated on 13 June 2005 in all of the then 25 member states by intention to order a range of remedies, including a prohibition on the European Commissions Directorate General for Competition.
The actively selling PPI at point of sale of the credit product and for 7 days inquiry examined retail banking in Europe generally.
On 31 January thereafter, a ban on single premium policies and other measures to 2007, the European Commission announced that barriers to competition increase transparency in order to improve customers ability to search in certain areas of retail banking, payment cards and payment systems and improve price competition.
Barclays Bank PLC subsequently in the European Union had been identified.
The European Commission appealed certain CC findings to the Competition Appeal Tribunal indicated that it will consider using its powers to address these barriers CAT.
On 16 October 2009, the CAT handed down a judgment and will encourage national competition authorities to enforce European quashing the ban on selling PPI at the point of sale of credit products and national competition laws where appropriate.
and remitted the matter back to the CC for review.
The CCs current Administrative Timetable is to publish a supplementary report by Multilateral interchange fees Summer 2010 and give further consideration to its full range of In 2007, the European Commission issued a decision that while recommended remedies and a draft order to implement them during interchange is not illegal per se, MasterCards current multilateral Autumn 2010. interchange fee MIF arrangement for cross border payment card transactions with MasterCard and Maestro branded consumer credit The FSA has been conducting a broad industry thematic review of PPI and debit cards in the European Union are in breach of competition law.
sales practices and in September 2008, the FSA announced that it MasterCard was required by the decision to withdraw the relevant intended to escalate its level of regulatory intervention.
Substantial cross-border MIFs i. e. set these fees to zero by 21 June 2008. numbers of customer complaints alleging the mis-selling of PPI policies have been made to banks and to the FOS and many of these are being MasterCard appealed against the decision to the European Court of upheld by the FOS against the banks.
First Instance on 1 March 2008, and the Group has intervened in the appeal proceedings.
In addition, in Summer 2008, MasterCard In September 2009, the FSA issued a consultation paper on guidance announced various changes to its scheme arrangements.
The European on the fair assessment of PPI mis-selling complaints and, where Commission was concerned that these changes might be used as a necessary, the provision of an appropriate level of redress.
The means of circumventing the requirements of the infringement decision.
consultation also covers proposed rules requiring firms to re-assess In April 2009 MasterCard agreed an interim settlement on the level of against the new guidance all PPI mis-selling complaints received and cross-border MIF with the European Commission pending the outcome rejected since 14 January 2005.
A policy statement containing final of the appeal process and, as a result, the European Commission has guidance and rules is expected in early 2010.
Separately, discussions advised it will no longer investigate the non-compliance issue although continue between the FSA and the Group in respect of concerns MasterCard is continuing with its appeal.
expressed by the FSA over certain categories of historical PPI sales.
Visas cross-border MIFs were exempted in 2002 by the European Personal current accounts Commission for a period of five years up to 31 December 2007 subject On 16 July 2008, the OFT published the results of its market study into to certain conditions.
On 26 March 2008, the European Commission personal current accounts in the United Kingdom.
The OFT found opened a formal inquiry into Visas current MIF arrangements for cross evidence of competition and several positive features in the personal border payment card transactions with Visa branded debit and current account market but believes that the market as a whole is not consumer credit cards in the European Union and on 6 April 2009 the working well for consumers and that the ability of the market to function European Commission announced that it had issued Visa with a formal well has become distorted.
At the same time Visa announced changes to its interchange levels and introduced some changes to enhance On 7 October 2009, the OFT published a follow-up report summarising transparency.
There is no deadline for the closure of the inquiry.
the initiatives agreed between the OFT and personal current account providers to address the OFTs concerns about transparency and In the UK, the OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and switching, following its market study.
Personal current account providers MasterCard domestic credit card interchange rates.
The decision by the will take a number of steps to improve transparency, including providing OFT in the MasterCard interchange case was set aside by the customers with an annual summary of the cost of their account and Competition Appeal Tribunal the CAT in June 2006.
The OFTs making charges prominent on monthly statements.
To improve the investigations in the Visa interchange case and a second MasterCard switching process, a number of steps are being introduced following interchange case are ongoing.
On 9 February 2007, the OFT work with BACS, the payment processor, including measures to reduce announced that it was expanding its investigation into domestic the impact on consumers of any problems with transferring direct interchange rates to include debit cards.
In January 2010 the OFT debits.
advised that it did not anticipate issuing a Statement of Objections prior to the European Courts judgment, although it has reserved the right to do so if it considers it appropriate.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 335 GRA 5 FS Part2 09 300-348. qxp:GRA 5 FS part2 09 15 3 10 09:35 Page 336 Notes on the accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued Other investigations On 22 December 2009, the OFT published a further report in which it In the UK, the OFT has been investigating the Group for alleged stated that it continued to have significant concerns about the operation conduct in breach of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the of the personal current account market in the United Kingdom, in European Union and or the Chapter 1 prohibition of the Competition Act particular in relation to unarranged overdrafts, and that it believed that 1998 relating to the provision of loan products to professional services fundamental changes are required for the market to work in the best firms.
The Group is co-operating fully with the OFT's investigation.
The OFT stated that it would discuss these issues intensively with banks, consumer groups and other organisations, In April 2009 the FSA notified the Group that it was commencing a with the aim of reporting on progress by the end of March 2010. supervisory review of the acquisition of ABN AMRO in 2007 and the 2008 capital raisings and an investigation into conduct, systems and US dollar clearing activities controls within the Global Banking & Markets division of the Group.
The In connection with a previously disclosed investigation of ABN AMROs company and its subsidiaries are cooperating fully with this review and New York Branch by US regulatory authorities, ABN AMRO and investigation.
members of ABN AMROs management continue to provide information to the United States Department of Justice relating to ABN AMROs In November 2009, the FSA informed the Group that it was commencing dollar clearing activities, United States Department of Treasury an investigation into certain aspects of the policies of, and training and compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 controls within, certain of the Groups UK subsidiaries relating to compliance matters.
ABN AMRO has reached an agreement in principle compliance with UK money laundering regulations during the period with the United States Department of Justice that would resolve all from December 2007 to December 2008.
The company and its presently known aspects of the ongoing investigation, although no subsidiaries are cooperating fully with this investigation.
written agreement has yet been reached and negotiations continue.
Under the terms of the agreement in principle, ABN AMRO and the In January 2010, the FSA informed the Group that it intended to United States would enter into a deferred prosecution agreement in commence an investigation into certain aspects of the handling of which ABN AMRO would waive indictment and agree to the filing of customer complaints.
The scope of the proposed investigation information in the United States District Court charging it with certain including which businesses and subsidiaries are affected is not yet violations of federal law based on information disclosed in an agreed clear.
The company and its subsidiaries intend to co-operate fully with factual statement.
ABN AMRO would also agree to continue cothis investigation.
operating in the United States ongoing investigation and to settle all known civil and criminal claims currently held by the United States for In the United States, the company and certain subsidiaries have the sum of US$500 million.
The precise terms of the deferred received requests for information from various governmental agencies, prosecution agreement are still under negotiation.
self-regulatory organisations, and state governmental agencies including in connection with sub-prime mortgages and securitisations, Securitisation and collateralised debt obligation business collateralised debt obligations and synthetic products related to subThe New York State Attorney General has issued subpoenas to a wide prime mortgages.
In particular, during March 2008, the Group was array of participants in the securitisation and securities industry, advised by the US Securities and Exchange Commission that it had focusing on the information underwriters obtained as part of the due commenced a non-public, formal investigation relating to the Groups diligence process from the independent due diligence firms.
RBS United States sub-prime securities exposures and United States Securities Inc. has produced documents requested by the New York residential mortgage exposures.
The company and its subsidiaries are State Attorney General, principally related to loans that were pooled into cooperating with these various requests for information and one securitisation transaction and will continue to cooperate with the investigations.
More recently, the Massachusetts Attorney General has issued a subpoena to RBS Securities Inc. seeking information related to residential mortgage lending practices and sales and securitisation of residential mortgage loans.
These respective investigations are in the early stages and therefore it is difficult to predict the potential exposure from any such investigation.
The company and its subsidiaries are cooperating with these various investigations and requests.
336 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
