fInAncIAl StAtementS Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 73 SIGnIfIcAnt AccountInG polIcIeS The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial assets and for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses consolidated financial statements are set out below.
related to pension obligations are set out below: consolidated financial statements The Group designates financial assets that are held as investments The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements are is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment property, financial asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement of Group occupied property and financial assets and financial liabilities comprehensive income.
Where the investment return is managed held for trading which include all derivative contracts.
on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair value Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated through the income statement financial statements are presented in millions of British Pounds Sterling, The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and losses shown as m, rounded to the nearest million.
arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups pension obligations in the statement of comprehensive income during the changes in presentation and comparative information period in which they arise.
This policy has been adopted as it provides The Group has adopted the revised version of IAS 1 2007 the most relevant basis of recognition of such gains and losses.
Presentation of Financial Statements, which is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The consolidation revised standard changes certain aspects of the presentation Subsidiaries of financial statements and its effects are as follows: Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits To introduce a new primary statement, the statement of changes from their activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more in equity, which was previously a note to the accounts than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of To rename the primary statements potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible To introduce a new disclosure, of the amount of income tax relating are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another to each component of other comprehensive income.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from Comparative information has been provided for these disclosures.
the date that control ceases.
The Group has also adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 Financial The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Instruments: Disclosures, which is mandatory for accounting periods acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The effect of the amendment is to introduce new disclosures in respect of financial instruments recognised The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets at fair value in the statement of financial position, namely an analysis of given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed such instruments based on a three level measurement hierarchy and at the date of exchange, including costs directly attributable to the disclosures regarding those instruments which have significant acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent unobservable inputs classified as Level 3. liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of The above changes have no impact on the result or the earnings per any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the share for the current period, the comparative period or earlier periods, fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired or the Groups financial position at the end of each such period.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is Selection of accounting policies recognised directly in the income statement.
The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between shareholders directors to present financial statements that they consider provide the of the Group and minority shareholders are accounted for as transactions most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there are between equity holders of the Group.
Any difference between the fair different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which value of the consideration given by the transferee and the carrying value would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant influence of the ownership interest transferred is recognised directly in equity.
upon the basis on which the financial statements are presented.
The bases of selection of the accounting policies for the accounting for 74 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SIGnIfIcAnt AccountInG polIcIeS contInued Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of subsidiaries are changed where necessary to ensure consistency monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are with the policies adopted by the Group.
recognised in the income statement.
Associates Goodwill and other intangible assets Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business acquisition but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially statement of financial position at cost and is subsequently recognised recognised at cost.
at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or losses consideration given together with associated expenses.
Goodwill are recognised in the income statement and its share of post is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in the statement of testing.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at least annually.
The cumulative post acquisition movements An impairment review is also carried out whenever there is an indication are adjusted in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired.
Where the carrying Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest amount is more than the recoverable amount, an impairment is in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does recognised in the income statement.
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, claims provisions are discounted to present value.
Immediately following the acquisition, Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the accounting policies the claims provisions are valued at full nominal value.
This increase in of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising from the Group.
acquired claims provisions, representing the present value of future investment income implicit in the claims discount.
The intangible asset is translation of foreign currencies amortised over the expected run off period and is tested in the context Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities of the liability adequacy test of insurance liabilities where the balances are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts is deducted from in which the entity operates the functional currency.
the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities.
The run off period is normally between five and 11 years.
The results and financial position of those Group entities whose functional currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling as follows: Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented immediately before the expenditure was made is recognised as an are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the period intangible asset.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates during each period Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, brands and All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without physical form.
Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation on computer software and of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which is normally taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange estimated to be between three and 12 years.
differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the closing exchange rate.
fInAncIAl StAtementS Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 75 property and equipment professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, category of the investment property being valued.
Valuations are carried fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and out on an annual basis or more frequently and by internal valuers for motor vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful interim periods, with reference to current market conditions.
Related life after taking into account residual values.
unrealised gains and unrealised losses or changes thereof are recognised in net investment return.
Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated financial assets cost.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
A financial asset is initially recognised, on the date the Group commits to purchase the asset, at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets not Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs property in the same location and condition and subject to similar that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual basis, have expired or have been transferred and when the Group has with reference to current market conditions.
substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised into the Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to The Group designates investments in equity and debt securities in their residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: accordance with its investment strategy on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the performance is evaluated Group occupied buildings normally 30 years internally.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of Fixtures and fittings 10 years the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial asset is Motor vehicles 4 years designated as an available for sale financial asset.
Where the investment Equipment 3-5 years return is managed on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted as at fair value through the income statement.
comprising loans, reinsurance deposits and other deposits are classified as loans and receivables.
An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written down to Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not classified its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its on initial recognition as available for sale assets and are therefore estimated recoverable amount.
categorised as loans and receivables.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity represent an occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in equity.
unrealised loss the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed to test Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are whether an indication of impairment exists.
charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the income there is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is for equity investments a significant or prolonged decline in the fair transferred from revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
value below cost, the unrealised loss charged to equity is reclassified to the income statement.
Investment property Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and buildings, If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and the is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and the Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on professionally qualified valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant equity investments are not reversed.
76 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SIGnIfIcAnt AccountInG polIcIeS contInued For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment charge The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair is recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying value of value of financial assets and liabilities are: the financial asset to its recoverable amount.
For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items which For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition of an If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes investment classified as available for sale, the cumulative gain or loss fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option derivative financial instruments pricing models Derivatives are recognised in the statement of financial position on a trade For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values are date basis and are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
prevailing market rates The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether For cash, loans and receivables, commercial paper, other assets, the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values item being hedged.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are instrument, changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
hedging Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when different, fair value Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry a variable rate conditions for hedge accounting are met: of interest other than loan capital, carrying values approximate to fair values There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy market prices.
for undertaking the hedge The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy for that particular hedging relationship Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of the Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have from prices been highly effective.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not Where loan capital or a forward foreign exchange contract is designated based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
as a hedging instrument against the net investment in foreign entities, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss Insurance contracts relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income product classification statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance income statement when the underlying hedged item is derecognised.
risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain future event other than a change in a financial variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS are classified as investment contracts or derivative contracts, as appropriate.
fInAncIAl StAtementS Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 77 Recognition of income net of deferred acquisition costs.
The unexpired risk provision is Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the contract is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the opinion of entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined the directors, are managed together.
at the end of the reporting period.
Premiums written exclude taxes and duties levied on premiums and directly related expenses, e. g. commissions.
Reinsurance ceded Premiums are earned as revenue over the period of the contract and are Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded are recognised in calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the end of the Acquisition costs reporting period.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining reinsurance contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised as a deferred acquisition cost asset and amortised on the same basis A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance liabilities is recognised as the related premiums are earned.
to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the reinsurance contracts in respect of the outstanding claims reported under insurance Insurance liabilities liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued on the The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the same basis as the underlying claims provision.
The amount recoverable is premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent reduced when there is an event arising after the initial recognition that to the end of the reporting period.
provides objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts due under the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact The provisions for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, on the expected amount that will be recovered from the reinsurer.
comprise the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the end of the reporting period.
It includes related expenses and a The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is determined using the best information available of claims settlement patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured The provisions for claims outstanding relating to long term permanent settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the disability claims in Canada and Scandinavia are also determined using Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the recognised actuarial methods.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
The provisions for claims outstanding, and related reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly long period from cash and cash equivalents incident to claims settlement and where there exists a suitable claims Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining those are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible claims with a long period from incident to claims settlement, those into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets categories of claims where the average period of settlement is six years with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
or more from the end of the reporting period has been used as a guide.
The discount rate used is based upon an investment return expected to treasury shares be earned by assets, which are appropriate in magnitude and nature to Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised cover the provisions for claims outstanding being discounted, during the on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any period necessary for the payment of such claims.
consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement loan capital of claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in which Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially they are settled or in which the provisions for claims outstanding are measured at the consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, loan capital is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
At the end of each reporting period an assessment is made of whether the provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially A separate provision is made, based on information available at the different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original end of the reporting period, for any estimated future underwriting financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The terms losses relating to unexpired risks.
The provision is calculated after are substantially different if the discounted present value of the taking into account future investment income that is expected to be cashflows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees earned from the assets backing the provisions for unearned premiums received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at 78 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SIGnIfIcAnt AccountInG polIcIeS contInued least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining services qualifying for the benefit are provided.
The Group has no cashflows of the original financial liability.
An exchange where the further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
terms are not substantially different is accounted for as an exchange.
The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as of defined benefit schemes are as follows: part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted for as an exchange, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount The current service cost of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the The past service cost for additional benefits granted in the current modified liability and no adjustment is made to the carrying value or earlier periods of the liability to reflect its fair value at the date of exchange.
The interest cost for the period The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period taxation The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in comprises the present value of the additional benefits attributable respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings to employees services provided during the period.
is recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present value probable that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using in which case UK tax is based on dividends received.
the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and The cost of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight liabilities and the carrying amounts in the financial statements.
line basis over the remaining period of service until such benefits However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset vest.
The cost of providing additional benefits that vest on their or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at introduction are recognised immediately.
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount the related deferred tax asset is realised or the related deferred tax rate is determined at the end of each reporting period by reference liability is settled.
to current market yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the currency and estimated term of the obligations.
The Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable interest cost for the period is calculated by multiplying the discount that future taxable profits will be available against which these rate determined at the start of the period by the defined benefit temporary differences can be utilised.
employee benefits The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligations pension obligations and the changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes curtailments and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period are generally funded through payments to trustee administered funds, are recognised in the income statement.
determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined Additionally, any previously unrecognised past service costs related contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or losses on settlement fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme and curtailment.
is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or The expected returns on scheme assets are determined for each more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
asset class, at the beginning of the period, as the expected investment returns on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post All returns are net of investment expenses.
retirement health schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions in the income statement in the period in which the employment when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect fInAncIAl StAtementS Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 79 of scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to being different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The value recognised in the statement of financial position for each provisions individual post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the at the end of the reporting period obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Minus any past service cost not yet recognised Minus the fair value at the end of the reporting period of Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that the scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering settled directly.
the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included For those individual schemes in deficit, the resulting net liabilities in the same class of obligations may be small.
are recognised in the statement of financial position in provisions.
For those individual schemes in surplus, an asset is recognised in the dividends to equity holders statement of financial position in other debtors and other assets to The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the the extent that the Group can realise an economic benefit, in the Annual General Meeting.
The interim dividend is recognised when paid.
form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions, at some point during the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities leases are settled.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating termination benefits leases are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts operating segments voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are to either: terminating the employment of current employees regularly reviewed by the Group Chief Executive Officer and by the according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: Board of Directors to assess their performance and to allocate capital or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to and resources.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations to present value.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction, that is highly probable Share based payments to complete within one year from the date of classification, rather The value of the employee share options and other equity settled than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at the lower share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are classified using appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value separately from other assets in the statement of financial position.
of liabilities in respect of cash settled share based payment Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are not netted.
In the period transactions is based upon the fair value of the awards at the end where a non current asset or disposal group is recognised for the first of the reporting period.
time the statement of financial position for the comparative prior period presented is not restated.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance conditions, other than those based upon market Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit of such awards but are taken into account by adjusting the number or loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss of equity instruments included in the ultimate measurement of the recognised on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs transaction amount.
The value of the awards is recognised as an to sell of the net assets constituting the discontinued operations.
In expense on a systematic basis over the period during which the the period where an operation is presented for the first time as employment services are provided.
Where an award of options discontinued, the income statement for the comparative prior period is cancelled by an employee, the full value of the award less any presented is restated to present that operation as discontinued.
value previously recognised is recognised at the cancellation date.
80 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SIGnIfIcAnt AccountInG polIcIeS contInued Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is All consideration including contingent consideration transferred in presented as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements a business combination is measured at fair value at the acquisition contain amounts attributable to continuing operations only.
Changes in the value of contingent consideration are comparatives for the notes to the income statement are restated.
measured in accordance with the relevant accounting treatment under IFRS current and non current distinction Pre-existing equity interests in an acquiree are remeasured to fair Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within value at the date of, and immediately before, the business the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are combination and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the classified as current when expected to be settled within the Groups income statement.
normal operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non current.
The Group will adopt the revised standards from 1 January 2010.
They will be applied prospectively and so they will have no impact The Groups statement of financial position is not presented using on the results and the earnings per share of the current period, the current and non current classifications.
However, the following comparative period or earlier periods, and on the Groups financial balances are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents: position at the end of each such period.
It is not possible to assess the deferred acquisition costs and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
impact the changes will have on future periods.
The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill On 12 November 2009 the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment This standard represents the completion of the first part of a property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: three-part project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
The new standard reduces the complexity by replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
The key The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non features for the new standard are as follows: current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes or in the risk management section.
A business model test is applied first in determining whether a financial asset is eligible for amortised cost measurement.
Recently issued accounting pronouncements The business model objective is based on holding financial assets Pronouncements issued by the International Accounting Standards in order to collect contractual cashflows rather than realising Board IASB but which are not yet mandatory for adoption in the cashflows from the sale of the financial assets Group financial statements are listed below: In order to be eligible for amortised cost measurement an asset must have contractual cashflow characteristics representing On 10 January 2008 the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 principal and interest Business Combinations and an amended version of IAS 27 All other financial assets are measured at fair value in the statement Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The revisions of financial position.
Subject to an optional treatment for an equity include the following changes to existing accounting practice: investment, changes in fair value during the reporting period are recognised in the income statement.
The option in IAS 39 allowing An equity interest in a subsidiary entity that is not held by the entities to classify financial instruments as available for sale is not reporting and controlling entity is now described as a non available in IFRS 9 controlling interest currently described as a minority interest An entity can elect on initial recognition to present the fair value The relevant proportion of total comprehensive income is changes on an equity investment that is not held for trading directly attributed to a non controlling interest even if this results in the non in other comprehensive income.
The dividends on such investments controlling interest having a deficit balance must be recognised in the income statement but gains or losses are In a business combination, the acquiring company must measure the not recycled when the equity investment is derecognised non controlling interest at either fair value or as the non controlling If a financial asset is eligible for amortised cost measurement, interests proportionate share of the identifiable net assets.
an entity can elect to measure it at fair value if it eliminates or Currently only the second basis is permitted significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
Costs incurred by the acquirer in connection with a business combination must be accounted for separately from the business It is expected that the IASB will issue the new standard covering the combination.
This will result in such costs being expensed and not remaining two parts of the project, together with a revised standard being included in goodwill on the recognition and measurement of financial liabilities, during 2010. fInAncIAl StAtementS Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 81 The new standard comes into effect for the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but early adoption is permitted.
The new standard has not yet been adopted by the EU.
The new standard relies on the Group business model objective and may also be influenced by the basis of the measurement of the Groups insurance liabilities at the time that the new standard is adopted.
The latter may change prior to adoption of IFRS 9 and so it is not possible to determine the overall impact on the results and the earnings per share of the current period, the comparative period or earlier periods, and on the Groups financial position at the end of each such period.
It is not possible to assess the impact the changes will have on future periods as in addition to the factors above, these will be impacted by future market conditions and management actions.
In addition to the above, the IASB has issued the following interpretations of, and revisions to, existing standards that are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements: Improvements to IFRS issued 22 May 2008 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items issued 31 July 2008 Interpretation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non cash Assets to Owners issued 27 November 2008 Revised IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS issued 27 November 2008 Improvements to IFRS issued 16 April 2009 Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash Settled Share Based Payment Transactions issued 18 June 2009 Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for First Time Adopters issued 23 July 2009 Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues issued 8 October 2009 Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures issued 4 November 2009 Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement issued 26 November 2009 Interpretation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments issued 26 November 2009 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters issued 28 January 2010.
