82 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 eStImAtIon technIqueS, RISkS, unceRtAIntIeS And contInGencIeS Introduction The development of previously settled claims, where payments One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to to date are extrapolated for each prior year protect themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost companies accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year and seek to add value through the aggregation and management are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years of these risks.
The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the Bornhuetterfinancial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of liabilities of the company.
In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of the methods and bases to the individual The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for process is designed to select the most appropriate best estimate.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent the amount of income set aside by the company to cover Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed the cost of claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters of insurance policies in force at the end of the reporting period.
estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future Outstanding claims represent the companys estimate of the cost of development of large claims.
settlement of claims that have occurred by the end of the reporting period but have not yet been finally settled.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the end of the The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the reporting period but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, have occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and for major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and appropriate provisions.
environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of estimation techniques provisions for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of determination of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means that the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
potential longer term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are and political conditions.
calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of a pension funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated several commonly accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable number of different bases to determine these provisions.
These include duration and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund methods based upon the following: on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be impacted by changes in equity markets.
fInAncIAl StAtementS Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 83 uncertainties and contingencies Asbestos and environmental claims The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for under a number of specific headings, such as: asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for other classes of Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to determine the future rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for policyholder as a result of the event occurring and estimating claims provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the a loss suffered.
extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution experts and external legal and professional advisors.
The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of up insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
This makes estimating the ultimate number of claims Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may we will receive particularly difficult still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of parties and insurers uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective legislative court judgments that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain process for claims of this nature and and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement of For US liabilities from our London market business, developments in outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the initial the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for Acquisitions and disposals unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy of operating segment that may develop and that could have a material claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographic and insurance balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries of risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance policies local regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given to make it not possible to predict whether material development will occur potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an occurrence.
proposed acquisitions with existing RSA operations.
The Group will The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of judgments and seek to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within each territory and warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The diversity of the additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there insurance risks results in it not being possible to identify individual can be no guarantee that these processes and any such protection will judgments and assumptions that are more likely than others to have a be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also provide relevant material impact on the future development of the insurance liabilities.
representations, warranties and indemnities to counterparties on any disposal.
While such representations, warranties and indemnities are The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to essential components of many contractual relationships, they do not asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk represent the underlying purpose for the transaction.
which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time to time lead to us receiving claims from counterparties.
The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to reduce contracts with third parties such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its 84 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 eStImAtIon technIqueS, RISkS, unceRtAIntIeS And contInGencIeS contInued business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing and able to Our insurance investment portfolios are concentrated in listed securities perform their obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions with very low levels of exposure to assets without quoted market prices.
We use model based analysis to verify asset values when market values are not readily available.
litigation, disputes and investigations The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject Rating environment to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the normal course of its dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from business.
In addition the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation in the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single connection with its former ownership of the US operation.
At the present time the ratings are A stable outlook from do not believe that any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, S&P, A stable outlook from AM Best upgraded in February 2009 and governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or A2 stable outlook from Moodys upgraded from A3 in December threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the 2008.
Any worsening in the ratings could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial position, although there can be no assurance that losses ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
or financial penalties resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, the pending or threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit rating.
Groups financial position or cashflows for any period.
If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this has potential implications for the related exposures.
Reinsurance The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is We publish our consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and to Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers with currencies, particularly other European currencies and the US Dollar, whom we do business our strategy is to seek reinsurers with the best into Pounds Sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial combination of financial strength, price and capacity.
We publish internally condition, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
a list of authorised reinsurers who pass our selection process and which These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling our operations may use for new transactions.
value of our investments and the return on our investments.
The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities, as reported in the financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by statement of financial position, are translated at closing exchange rates requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having at the end of the reporting period.
regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to pay Regulatory environment amounts due to the Group in full.
The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant change in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including Investment risk developments in response to changes in the economic and political The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested assets.
environment and the recent financial crisis.
We continue to monitor the Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse movements developments and react accordingly.
in market rates and prices including interest rates, equity prices, property prices and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to The new solvency framework for insurers being developed by the EU, market risks is controlled by the setting of investment limits in line with referred to as Solvency II, is intended in the medium term to achieve the Groups risk appetite.
From time to time the Group also makes use greater harmonisation of approach across EU member states to of derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to adverse assessing capital resources and requirements.
There will be continued fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
uncertainty until all the rules are finalised and the Group is actively The Group has strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
participating in shaping the outcome through our involvement with European and UK regulators and industry bodies.
The Group is actively Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment progressing its implementation plans and the directors are confident that obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital of invested assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for bonds, requirements.
Limits are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood of default to manage the Groups overall credit profile and specific concentrations within risk appetite.
