142 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 ShAReholdeR InfoRmAtIon Registered office and Group corporate centre Scrip dividend Scheme 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M RSA offers shareholders the opportunity to use their dividends to buy 3BD.
Registered in England and more ordinary shares in the Company by participating in the Companys Wales No.
The Scheme applies to both interim and final dividends and enables shareholders to increase their holding in the company website Company without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
If you wish to The Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Management Statements, Half receive a scrip dividend instead of a cash dividend for future dividends Year Report and other useful information about the Company, such as the on which a scrip alternative is offered, please contact Equiniti.
current share price and frequently asked questions and answers in respect of shareholder matters, are available on the website www.
Share ownership RSA is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code RSA.
Registrar The average total daily trading volume during 2009 was approximately The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited.
The opening market price of an ordinary regarding your shareholding should be addressed to Equiniti at the share on 2 January 2009 was 138.00p and the closing market price on following address: 31 December 2009 was 120.60p.
The highest daily closing price of an ordinary share was 148.10p on 12 January 2009 and the lowest daily Equiniti Limited closing price was 113.40p on 10 July 2009.
Further details of the ordinary Aspect House and preference shares are found in note 18 on pages 104 to 105.
Calls are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
Telephone lines are open managing your shareholding from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Share register fraud: protecting your investment Annual General meeting It is required by law that our shareholder register is available for public Ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual inspection and we are unable to control the use of information obtained General Meeting AGM, which will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II by persons inspecting the register.
Shareholders are advised to be wary Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of at 11.00am on 17 May 2010.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable to free reports about the Company.
Details of any share dealing facilities attend the AGM to ask a question in person are invited to send the that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on Chairman an email via the Companys website or to write to the our website.
More information on protecting your investment can be Chairman at the Registered Office address above.
electronic communications tips on protecting your shares RSA provides shareholder information including the Annual Report and Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference Accounts, AGM Notice, an events calendar and governance information number in a safe place and destroy any documentation which you no via the Companys website www.
You can elect to longer need by shredding it receive notifications of shareholder communications by registering at Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address www.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate to Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact Equiniti if you do not receive dividends directly to your bank account and submit proxy votes receive your dividend cheque, or better still, make arrangements to for shareholder meetings.
Receiving the Companys communications have the dividend paid directly into your bank account electronically allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
otheR InfoRmAtIon Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 143 Amalgamation of accounts Analysis of investors Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name should write to Equiniti to request that their accounts be amalgamated.
PENSION FUNDS 16% INSURANCE low cost share dealing facilities 9% UNIT TRUSTS A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Equiniti 50% MUTUAL FUNDS which provides a simple way of buying and selling RSA shares.
PRIVATE RETAIL Commission is 1.5% with a minimum charge of 25 for telephone 12% dealing and 1% with a minimum charge of 20 for internet dealing.
For OTHERS 13% telephone sales call 44 0 845 6037 037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Share dealing services are also widely provided by Distribution of shares by geography other organisations.
UK ShareGift 76% Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes EUROPE 14% it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The USA & CANADA 7% Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further ASIA & OTHERS 3% details can be obtained from www.
org or by calling 44 0 20 7930 3737. disabled shareholders RSA is committed to providing a quality service to all of its shareholders.
An induction loop is installed at the AGM venue.
Please contact the Group Secretariat department at the Registered Office, detailed on page 129, if you require particular assistance.
