38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:28 Page 70 70 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 Presentation of the financial statements IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
As it currently Financial information for the year ended 31 December 2009 is presented stands, the Standard would require the Group to reclassify a significant in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
number of its financial assets that are currently classified as being either available-for-sale or held to maturity.
The Groups decision as to how it IAS 1 allows an entity to present some of its assets and liabilities using wishes to reclassify such instruments will determine the impact of the a current non-current classification and others in order of liquidity when new Standard.
The Groups accounting policy in respect of financial this provides information that is reliable and more relevant.
assets will be amended on initial application of the Standard.
The Group has adopted a mixed basis of presentation within its The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the amended IAS 27 consolidated balance sheet which shows the assets and liabilities of the or any other of the new or revised Standards and Interpretations will have Groups life company business, Schroder Pension Management Limited, a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
in order of liquidity and the remainder of the Groups assets and liabilities using a current non-current classification.
The Standards and Interpretations adopted in the year required the Group to amend its disclosures within the notes to the accounts, but This presentation provides more relevant information in that if the assets had no impact on the Groups financial statements.
Standards and and liabilities of the Groups life company business, Schroder Pension Interpretations adopted were: Management Limited, were to be included within existing captions on IFRS 7 Amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures the Groups balance sheet the effect would be to gross up a number IFRS 8 Operating Segments of individual line items to a material extent.
By adopting a mixed basis IAS 1 Amended Presentation of Financial Statements of presentation, the Group is able to provide a more transparent presentation that shows the life company asset and the related unitThe consolidated financial information presented within these financial linked liability as separate and distinct from the remainder of the Groups statements has been prepared on the going concern basis under the balance sheet items.
historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value of derivative financial instruments and financial assets and liabilities that Changes to the presentation of the consolidated balance sheet are available-for-sale or held at fair value through profit or loss and the Comparative amounts in the balance sheet in respect of unit-linked measurement of long-term employee benefits at present value of the liabilities and assets held to cover such liabilities have been restated by obligation less fair value of any assets held to settle the obligation.
479.6 million in order to record the holdings of assets controlled by the The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged life company that are beneficially owned by third parties.
Such holdings is adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks arise where the life company is in a position to be able to control a fund that are being hedged.
This valuation is in accordance with IAS 39 in which it invests.
This restatement does not change the Groups net Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
assets and has no net impact on the Groups income statement.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 1 Summary of accounting policies requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires a Basis of preparation management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates which comprise Standards and Interpretations approved by either the are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2 below.
International Accounting Standards Board or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or their predecessors, as adopted b Basis of consolidation by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 The consolidated financial information contained within these financial applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
statements incorporates financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries prepared to With the exception of the Standards which were issued during the year, 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has but which were not effective at the balance sheet date, the Group the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee adopted all Standards and Interpretations that were either issued, entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Where the Group or which had become effective, during the year.
Standards and controls an entity, but does not own all the share capital of that entity, the Interpretations not yet adopted at the balance sheet date were: interest of minority shareholders is stated within equity at the minoritys IFRS 3 Amended Business Combinations proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 27 Amended Consolidation of Separate Financial Statements The accounts of subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are prepared using uniform accounting policies, are coterminous with those of the Company apart from those of certain undertakings which have In addition, a number of other existing Standards and Interpretations accounting reference dates other than 31 December for commercial have also been revised to ensure consistency with the amended reasons.
Management accounts made up to 31 December are used Standards listed above.
The main impact on the Group of the amendments to IFRS 3 will be the The results of subsidiary undertakings and associates acquired or sold requirement for costs relating to business combinations to be expensed, are included from or to the date control for subsidiaries or significant where previously they were capitalised and for adjustments to contingent influence for associates changes.
consideration to be recognised within the income statement.
The Groups accounting policy in respect of business combinations will be Employee share ownership trusts have been established for the amended accordingly.
purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards.
These trusts are fully consolidated within the accounts.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:28 Page 71 71 The Group has life company and seed capital investments in a number At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there is of funds where it is in a position to be able to control those funds.
any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such indication The funds are consolidated unless they meet the criteria set out in the exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, accounting policy in respect of non-current assets held for sale to be the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable categorised as being held for sale, in which case they are classified amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
and accounted for in accordance with that policy.
Where the Group consolidates a fund, but does not own all the net assets of that fund, f Intangible assets software the interests of third party investors are classified either within unit-linked The costs of purchasing and implementing software, together with liabilities for life company investments or as financial liabilities where associated relevant expenditure, are capitalised where it is probable they relate to consolidated funds for seed capital investments.
Such that future economic benefits that are attributable to the assets will flow balances represent the third party investors proportion of the assets to the Group and the cost of the assets can be measured reliably.
and liabilities of the relevant funds.
Software is recorded initially at cost and then amortised over its useful life, All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are usually three years, on a straight-line basis.
It is included in the balance eliminated on consolidation.
sheet as an intangible asset.
c Business combinations At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase is any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the indication exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the to sell and value in use.
Where intangible software assets are not yet business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities available for use, an assessment of whether the carrying values exceed and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under the estimated recoverable amount is made irrespective of whether there IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the is any indication of impairment.
acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current g Property, plant and equipment Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised The Groups assets include leasehold improvements, office equipment, and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original d Goodwill purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable provided on the depreciable amount over their useful lives on a straightassets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity line basis at rates varying between 20 per cent.
per at the date of acquisition.
The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, less the estimated residual value at the end of its economic life.
Depreciation Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is recognised as an rates and methods as well as the residual values underlying the asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
The carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment at Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates or jointly controlled each reporting date.
An assessment is made as to whether there is any entities is included in the amount of the investments.
Gains and losses indication that an asset may be impaired: if any such indication exists on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of the goodwill and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date and annually in use.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill written off to other comprehensive income prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any h Associates and joint ventures subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Associates comprise those undertakings, not being subsidiary undertakings, where the Group is in a position to exercise significant e Intangible assets arising from business combinations influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the The costs of acquiring intangible assets such as fund management financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
contracts and client relationships as part of a business combination are capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits that are Joint ventures comprise those undertakings, not being subsidiary attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the cost of the assets undertakings, which carry on related activities, and where there is can be measured reliably.
contractually agreed sharing of control over the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Fund management contracts are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised over their useful lives of five to ten years, on a straight-line Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the basis.
The fair value at the date of acquisition is calculated using equity method.
The investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost discounted cash flow methodology and represents the valuation of the as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net net residual income stream arising from the fund management contracts assets of the associate or joint venture.
in place at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are included in the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:28 Page 72 72 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 The income statement includes the Groups post-tax share of is sold or otherwise disposed of, or until the investment is determined associates and joint ventures profits or losses for the year.
Where to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously a Group company transacts with an associate or joint venture of the reported in other comprehensive income is included within Revenue Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups in the income statement.
interest in that associate or joint venture.
For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, Where associates and joint ventures hold financial assets classified as fair value is determined by reference to official quoted market bid prices available-for-sale, the Group recognises movements in such assets in at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
For investments other comprehensive income.
that are not actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by using quoted prices from third parties such as brokers, Where the interest in an associate or joint venture is reduced to nil, losses market makers and pricing agencies.
For private equity investments and liabilities are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred where there is no quoted market price, fair value is determined with legal or constructive obligations.
If the associate or joint venture subsequently reference to International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation makes profits, the Group resumes recognising its share of those profits Guidelines or by independent professional valuers.
In such only after the share of profits equals the share of losses not recognised.
circumstances, fair values are derived using the most appropriate technique, examples of which include the use of earnings multiples Where the Group has investments in funds over which it is able to exert applying an appropriate earnings multiple to the earnings of individual significant influence but not control, the Group has applied the scope businesses being valued in order to derive a value and the values exclusion within IAS 28 Investments in Associates for mutual funds, unit assigned to recent similar transactions.
trusts and similar entities and has accounted for such holdings at fair value through profit or loss.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or i Financial assets sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales Items included within this caption on the face of the balance sheet of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame principally comprise investments in debt securities and equities and generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
It excludes financial assets that are recorded under the following headings: Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss Assets held within the life company are designated as fair value through Loans and advances to customers: profit or loss, as they are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis, Trade and other receivables: in accordance with documented strategy.
All other financial assets Cash and cash equivalents: and held at fair value through profit or loss are classified as held for trading Non-current assets held for sale.
Separate accounting policies are presented in respect of these Measurement excluded items.
All investments are initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration given.
Derivative instruments are included within the caption Financial assets on the face of the balance sheet.
The accounting policy in respect of After initial recognition, investments which are classified as held at fair each such instrument is included in the note to the accounts concerning value through profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses, derivative contracts.
together with transaction costs, on investments are recognised within Revenue in the income statement.
Such gains or losses, where they Financial assets held as available-for-sale arise on seed capital investments, include distributions from funds.
Measurement Where financial assets have been categorised as being available-forFor investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, sale, all such investments are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value is determined by reference to official quoted market bid consideration given, including, where appropriate, acquisition costs prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
For quoted associated with the investment.
investments that are not actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation techniques.
For After initial recognition, investments which are classified as availableprivate equity investments that were classified as at fair value through for-sale are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses on available-for-sale profit or loss until 1 July 2008, fair value was determined with reference investments are recognised as a separate component of equity until to International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines the investment is sold, collected or otherwise disposed of, or until the or by independent professional valuers.
investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in other comprehensive income is All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised included within Revenue in the income statement.
Interest calculated on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or using the effective interest method is recognised within the income sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales statement.
Assets categorised as available-for-sale are reviewed at the of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame end of each reporting period for impairment.
generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
Where, in prior years, investments have been reclassified out of the Financial assets held to maturity fair value through profit or loss category and into the available-for-sale Designation category, they have been reclassified at their fair value on the date Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed of reclassification.
or determinable payments and fixed maturity.
Where the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold such assets to maturity, it is able to Gains or losses on reclassified investments are recognised after categorise such investments as held to maturity.
Such assets are held reclassification as a separate component of equity until the investment exclusively by the Groups Private Banking operations.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 73 73 Measurement the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax All investments are initially recognised at fair value, being the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance consideration given, including, where appropriate, acquisition charges sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Financial assets held to maturity are measured at amortised cost, being that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductible the amount at which they are measured at initial recognition less principal temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, branches effective interest method of any difference between that initial amount and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary and the maturity amount, and minus any reduction directly or through difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary the use of an allowance account for impairment or irrecoverability.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
j Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting m Trade and other receivables Derivative contracts are included at fair value at the balance sheet date Trade receivables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently within Financial assets or Financial liabilities.
Fair value represents the at amortised cost.
amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a transaction at the balance sheet date between willing parties.
Impairments for specific bad and doubtful debts are made against receivables to reflect an assessment of irrecoverability and are deducted Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, the Group from the relevant assets.
Such impairments are recorded within formally documents the relationship between the derivative and any Administrative expenses in the income statement.
hedged item, its risk management objectives, its strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions and its assessment, both at hedge n Cash and cash equivalents inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
in fair value of hedged items.
Where the Group considers that such items are not to be used for settling its liabilities, for example, securities with short maturity dates that In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge will be rolled over as part of an investment portfolio, they are classified as accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument financial assets rather than cash and cash equivalents.
For the purposes at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the overdrafts where such facilities form an integral part of the Groups income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging cash management.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
o Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups acquired exclusively with In relation to hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the a view to subsequent disposal through sale or deemed disposal are portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined classified as held for sale and measured at the lower of their carrying to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive amount and fair value less costs to sell.
income and the ineffective portion is recognised within Revenue in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the gain or loss Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale on the hedging instrument recognised directly in other comprehensive if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction income is transferred to the income statement.
rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group k Loans and advances to customers is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management Loans and advances to banks and customers are initially recorded must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date interest method.
At date of sale, post-tax gains or losses on such assets are taken to the income statement where they are recorded Impairments for specific bad and doubtful debts are made against within Revenue.
loans and advances made by the Group to reflect an assessment of irrecoverability and are deducted from the relevant assets.
Such p Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing impairments are recorded within Administrative expenses in the unit-linked liabilities income statement.
Investments in authorised unit trusts and other financial assets held by the life company are recognised and measured under IAS 39 which l Deferred tax applies to investment contracts that do not meet the insurance contract Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all taxable definition under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
Accordingly the life and deductible temporary differences at the balance sheet date between company assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value, with gains and the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for losses recorded within Revenue in the income statement in the year in financial reporting purposes.
However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset q Financial liabilities or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the Items included within this caption on the face of the balance sheet time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit principally comprise debt securities in issue and derivative financial or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are instruments.
Comparative periods also include items in respect of hedge measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when accounting and deferred consideration arising from the acquisition of | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 74 74 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 New Finance Holdings Limited in 2006.
It excludes financial liabilities that For onerous lease or surplus space provisions, where the effect are recorded under the following headings: of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects Deposits by customers and banks: current market assessments of the time value of money and, where Trade and other payables: and appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, Provisions.
the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Debt securities in issue are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
v Own shares After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are Employee trusts have been established for the purposes of satisfying subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest certain equity-based awards.
The holdings of these trusts include method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue shares that have not vested unconditionally in employees of the Group costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are own shares.
recognised within Revenue in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Own shares are held for the short term to meet future award requirements and are recorded, at cost, as a deduction from equity.
r Deposits by customers and banks Deposits by banks are initially recognised at the fair value of the w Revenue consideration received net of any directly attributable transaction costs Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the incurred.
After initial recognition, the liabilities are accounted for at economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be amortised cost using the effective interest method taking into account reliably measured.
Unless otherwise stated, the types of revenue any attributable transaction costs.
listed below are all reported within Revenue in the income statement.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before s Trade and other payables revenue is recognised: Trade payables, other than long-term employee benefits see note t below, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently at Interest non-banking amortised cost.
Interest on non-banking activities comprises amounts due on the Groups investment capital and temporary surpluses or deficits in the t Long-term employee benefits Groups cash accounts held with banks.
Interest receivable and payable Long-term employee benefits consist of surpluses deficits in defined not arising from the Groups Private Banking activities is recognised using benefit pension schemes and deferred cash awards under the Equity the effective interest method and is recorded in the income statement Compensation Plan.
They are recorded at the present value of the within Interest receivable and similar income or Interest payable and defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value similar charges, as appropriate.
at the balance sheet date of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Interest banking Interest receivable on the Groups Private Banking activities comprises For further details on the accounting policy in respect of defined benefit interest receivable on debt securities and other fixed income securities, schemes, see note z below.
loans, advances and deposits placed, guarantee and commitment commissions, and is recognised using the effective interest method.
The Group makes deferred cash awards to key employees under the Interest payable on banking activities comprises interest payable on Equity Compensation Plan in the form of a notional investment in funds deposits taken and debt securities in issue, and is recognised using operated by the Group.
Such awards do not constitute share-based the effective interest method.
payments, but are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19.
These awards are charged to Administrative expenses within the income Fees and commissions statement over the performance period and the vesting period of the Asset management fees, investment advisory fees, ad hoc advisory awards.
Awards that lapse are credited to the income statement, again fees, custody fees, stock lending commission, commitment fees, within Administrative expenses, in the year in which they lapse.
arrangement fees, guarantor fees, and Directors fees are accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
u Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Private Banking transaction and loan-related fees, together with fees legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an from structured client facilitation transactions are accrued over the outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to period for which the service is provided.
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Asset management fees received in advance are taken to the balance sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the Where the existence of an obligation is possible, dependent on provision of the asset management service.
The period of provision of uncertain events not wholly within the control of the Group, or a present asset management service is estimated based on experience of average obligation cannot be measured reliably, or it is not probable that an holding periods for investments in the separate geographical locations outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required where such fees are earned.
Redemptions are reviewed on an annual to settle the obligation, the Group discloses, but does not recognise, basis and the amortisation rate adjusted where there has been a contingent liability.
a significant and lasting change in redemption levels.
Where the Group expects to recover amounts provided, for example Asset management fees received in advance in respect of structured under an insurance contract, the recovery is recognised as a separate product funds and the reimbursement of any marketing and distribution asset but only when the recovery is virtually certain.
fees paid to the distributor as agent of the fund are deferred and spread | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 75 75 over the life of the fund on a straight-line basis.
Such deferred fees are value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together released to the income statement on redemption.
with adjustments for unvested past service cost, is recognised as an asset or liability, as appropriate, in the balance sheet.
An asset arising, The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of for example, as a result of past over-funding or the performance of the clients where the performance of the clients assets exceeds defined plan investments, is recognised to the extent that it is recoverable either benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance over a set time in that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution holidays period.
Performance fees are recognised when the fee amount can or through refunds or set offs of contributions.
be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee will be received.
Fees are normally recognised at the end of a performance period.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in other comprehensive income.
Dividends receivable Revenue is recognised when the shareholders right to receive the aa Share-based payments payment is established.
The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to key employees through awards over ordinary and non-voting ordinary Returns from private equity investments shares and by the grant of market value share options over non-voting The Groups private equity investments are classified as availableordinary shares.
After initial recognition, these investments are measured at fair value.
Awards over ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares made under the Groups Equity Compensation Plan are charged at fair value as Gains or losses on available-for-sale investments are recognised as Administrative expenses in the income statement.
The fair value of a separate component of equity until the investment is sold, collected an award is calculated using the market value of the shares on the date or otherwise disposed of, or until the investment is determined to be of grant, discounted for the dividends forgone over the average holding impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported period of the award.
The fair value charges, adjusted to reflect actual in other comprehensive income is in the income statement.
and expected levels of vesting, are spread over the performance period and the vesting period of the awards.
Carried interests are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant contractual Awards over ordinary shares made under the Groups Equity Incentive agreement.
Where there is a contractual agreement to receive such Plan are charged at fair value to the income statement over a five year amounts subject to the fulfilment of specified conditions, capital gains vesting period.
Fair value is determined at the date of grant and is equal receivable are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis to the market value at that time.
in accordance with the substance of the relevant contractual agreement.
Where there is no such agreement, capital gains receivable are Options granted over non-voting ordinary shares under the Groups recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Share Option Plan are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting x Cost of sales period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Commissions and distribution fees payable to third parties are Fair value is measured by use of a stochastic option valuation model.
recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, Asset management fees paid in advance in respect of structured exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
product funds and the reimbursement of any marketing and distribution fees paid to the distributor as agent of the fund are deferred and spread Awards that lapse are credited to the income statement in the year in over the life of the fund.
Fees paid to the distributor but not yet charged which they lapse.
that relate to deferred fees received are released to the income statement on redemption.
ab Foreign currency translation The results of subsidiary undertakings, branches and associates drawn y Leases up in currencies other than sterling are translated at average rates of Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits exchange ruling during the year.
The assets and liabilities of these entities of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Income from are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
operating leases is recognised within Revenue on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives given to enter into leases are Exchange differences arising on the translation of the results of these amortised over the period of the lease.
entities from the average rate used in the income statement to the closing rate used in the balance sheet are taken in other comprehensive As lessee, costs under operating leases are charged to the income income.
In addition, exchange differences arising on the translation statement as Administrative expenses in equal amounts over the of the equity of these undertakings at the beginning of the year, together periods of the leases.
Incentives received to enter into leases are with hedges of such exposures, are also taken directly in other amortised over the period of the lease.
z Pensions and other post-employment benefits Foreign currency assets and liabilities held by Group entities are The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
For defined contribution schemes, pension contributions payable Any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement in respect of the accounting period are charged as Administrative within Revenue unless they relate to non-monetary items whose gains expenses to the income statement.
For funded defined benefit or losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
For schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined separately for such non-monetary items, the exchange components of those gains or each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 76 76 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 ac Operating profit Impairment of other assets The Group has chosen to present a subtotal for Operating profit on Goodwill and other assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested the face of its income statement.
The purpose of this presentation is annually to determine whether they have suffered any impairment.
Other to display a measure of the Groups earnings before tax and non-core intangible assets which have a finite useful economic life are reviewed for receivables such as net finance income and income from associates impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that and joint ventures.
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
ad Dividends payable For non-financial assets, the recoverable amount of an asset or Dividends payable are recognised when the dividend is paid or approved a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations by shareholders, whichever is earlier.
prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
ae Exceptional items For other financial assets, the recoverable amount is determined Exceptional items are those significant items which are required to be based on the estimated future cash flows.
Disclosure of the sensitivity separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a better of carrying amounts of goodwill to the methods, assumptions and understanding of the Groups financial performance.
estimates underlying the calculation is included in the note to the accounts concerning goodwill.
2 Estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements Income taxes are periodically evaluated and are based on historical experience and The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will seldom equal income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from discussed below.
the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such Valuation of quoted financial assets where there is an active market determination is made.
Such assets are valued at the current quoted bid price using price feeds from third party market participants.
Bank payroll tax The Bank Payroll Tax BPT was announced in the United Kingdom Valuation of quoted financial assets where there is no active market UK on 9 December 2009 and applies to certain bonuses awarded to From time to time quoted investments held by the Group may not be employees of UK resident banks between 9 December 2009 and 5 April actively traded in financial markets.
In such cases, the Group uses price 2010.
BPT is charged at a rate of 50 per cent.
Draft legislation and feeds from third party market participants to determine fair value.
guidance on the new tax was issued on 9 December 2009 and further guidance was issued over the following weeks.
The subsequent Valuation of financial assets where there is no quoted price guidance has clarified the Governments intentions but substantial Such assets principally consist of investments in private equity, venture questions remain.
and buy-out funds, hedge funds and funds of hedge funds.
Private equity, venture and buy out funds are valued in accordance with The Group has considered the impact that BPT may have on its financial International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and, statements and has concluded that a small number of employees where appropriate, by independent professional valuers.
Hedge funds working in the Private Banking business in the UK may fall into the and funds of hedge funds are valued using the last price, quoted by the Governments definition of a relevant banking employee.
As the Group relevant fund adjusted to reflect changes in underlying market conditions believes that the legislation in its current form, or in a form substantially occurring between the date of the last quoted price and the balance similar to the draft legislation, will be enacted, BPT is expected to sheet date.
These determinations require significant judgement become payable and has been accrued by the Group based on particularly in determining changes in fair value since the last formal the payments expected to be made to those employees within the valuation by the fund manager or advisor.
In making this judgement the specified period.
Group evaluates amongst other factors the effect of cash distributions and changes in the business outlook for each fund due to the financial Pension obligations health and performance of individual investments within each fund.
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number Impairment of financial assets categorised as available-for-sale of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the net Assets categorised as available-for-sale are reviewed at the end of each charge credit for pension costs include the expected long-term rate of reporting period for impairment.
If the period-end fair value of an asset return on the plans assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these is less than the cost or deemed cost of that asset, the Group will assess assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
whether there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on For fixed income products, prime considerations are whether the issuer a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term historical returns, is experiencing significant financial difficulties, whether there has been asset allocation and future estimates of long-term investment returns.
a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, and whether national or local economic conditions The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each correlate with defaults on the types of product held.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle In respect of equity products, consideration is given to the extent to the pension obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the which the fair value of an instrument is below cost and to the length Group considers the interest rates of high-quality long-dated corporate of time that the fair value of an instrument has been below cost.
bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 77 77 The other key assumption that impacts the carrying value of the obligation is that of expected mortality rates.
Any assumption made in this area is inherently uncertain.
The Groups mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables projected forwards ten years for current pensioners and 20 years for future pensioners with the medium cohort adjustment applied, augmented by underpinning to provide for a constant level of improvement in long-term mortality rates.
The Group reviews its assumptions annually in conjunction with its independent actuaries and considers this adjustment appropriate given the geographic and demographic profile of the scheme.
Other assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Further information, including a sensitivity analysis, is given in the note to the accounts concerning retirement benefit obligations.
Surplus space The Group periodically reviews its space requirements and makes provisions where the Group has no current need for space to which the Group is already contractually committed under the terms of an operating lease agreement.
The calculation of the required provision requires significant judgement, as the Group needs to estimate the provision based upon discounted future cash outflows due to be paid under the lease less any potential cash inflows from sub-letting arrangements that the Group is able to negotiate.
These cash flows are then discounted for the remaining lease period.
In estimating these cash flows, the Group consults with external advisors in the relevant location to understand the potential to sub-let the space, the rental rates which could be achieved and the potential amount and time period of any leasehold inducements which may need to be offered to successfully secure a sub-tenant.
Disclosure of the sensitivity of carrying amounts of provisions for surplus space to the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying their calculation is included in the note to the accounts concerning provisions.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 16:05 Page 78 78 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 3 Segmental reporting i Operating segments The Group has three continuing business segments: Asset Management, Private Banking and Group.
Asset Management principally comprises investment management including advisory services, equity products, fixed income securities and alternative asset classes such as property, commodities, private equity and funds of hedge funds: Private Banking principally comprises investment management and banking services provided to high net worth individuals and certain smaller institutions: and Group principally comprises the income on the Groups investments in cash, liquid debt securities, investments in equities, venture and buy-out funds and related vehicles less Group costs and provisions.
During the year, the Group has adopted IFRS 8, which replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
A key difference between IAS 14 and IFRS 8 is that the latter requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that provided for internal reporting purposes to the Groups chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker is the Groups Chief Executive.
Within the note below, segment information is presented on that basis.
Comparatives for 2008 have been restated accordingly.
Within the Groups last annual financial statements, the Group segment was disclosed as two separate segments Group and Private Equity.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group and Private Equity segments, which have similar economic characteristics, have been aggregated into a single segment.
The allocation of costs to individual business segments is undertaken in order to provide management information on the cost of providing services and to provide managers with a tool to manage and control expenditure.
Costs are allocated on a basis that aligns the charge with the resources employed by the Group in a particular area of its business.
Typical dynamic allocation bases are square footage occupied and number of staff employed by particular business segments.
Inter-segment Asset Private eliminations and Management Banking Group adjustments Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m External revenue 884.4 83.0 32.4 5.1 940.1 External net interest 19.3 19.3 Inter-segment revenues 0.2 0.2 Total revenue 884.4 102.1 32.4 5.3 959.4 Cost of sales 205.2 4.4 209.6 Net revenue 679.2 97.7 32.4 5.3 749.8 Operating expenses 517.6 77.6 38.4 5.1 638.7 Operating profit loss 161.6 20.1 70.8 0.2 111.1 External interest receivable and similar income 2.7 9.8 12.5 Inter-segment interest receivable payable 0.6 0.4 0.2 Interest receivable and similar income 3.3 9.4 0.2 12.5 Interest payable and similar charges 0.1 1.6 1.7 Net finance income expense 3.2 7.8 0.2 10.8 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 9.9 5.7 15.6 Profit loss before tax 174.7 20.1 57.3 137.5 Exceptional items included in the analysis above see note 4 : Revenues 39.1 39.1 Operating expenses 17.3 6.3 23.6 17.3 45.4 62.7 Profit loss before tax and exceptional items 192.0 20.1 11.9 200.2 Profit loss before tax 174.7 20.1 57.3 137.5 Operating expenses include the following non-cash expenses: Share-based payments 24.6 1.6 1.4 27.6 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and software 12.7 0.5 1.2 14.4 Amortisation of other intangible assets 2.5 0.1 2.6 Impairment of other intangible assets 2.7 2.7 Bad and doubtful debts 0.2 6.3 1.6 7.7 Other provisions 2.7 0.1 4.9 2.3 39.6 8.6 9.1 57.3 Asset Private Management Banking Group Total As at 31 December 2009 m m m m 1 2 Segment assets 6,549.0 2,647.9 1,091.7 10,288.6 Segment liabilities 6,201.0 2,405.9 32.7 8,639.6 348.0 242.0 1,059.0 1,649.0 Capital expenditure on segment assets 6.0 0.1 6.1 1 Includes 30.0 million investment in joint ventures, 0.1 million investment in associates.
2 Includes 16.4 million investment in associates.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 79 79 3 Segmental reporting continued Impairment losses and the reversal of impairment losses have been recognised in the year as follows: 2009 Asset Private Management Banking Group Total m m m m Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss in respect of: 1 Financial assets 41.8 41.8 2 Intangible assets arising from business combinations 2.7 2.7 3 Bad and doubtful debts 2.2 6.3 1.6 10.1 Reversal of impairment losses recognised in profit or loss in respect of: 3 Bad and doubtful debts 2.4 2.4 2.5 6.3 43.4 52.2 1 Reported within revenue as an exceptional item.
2 Reported within operating expenses as an exceptional item.
3 Reported within operating expenses: 1.4 million of the losses within the Group segment are reported as an exceptional item.
Inter-segment amounts represent interest payable and receivable on cash balances held by Private Banking on behalf of Group companies.
Inter-segment Asset Private eliminations and Management Banking Group adjustments Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m External revenue 953.6 88.8 139.5 4.3 907.2 External net interest 28.6 28.6 Inter-segment revenues 1.2 1.2 Total revenue 953.6 116.2 139.5 5.5 935.8 Cost of sales 204.9 4.9 0.3 210.1 Net revenue 748.7 111.3 139.8 5.5 725.7 Operating expenses 537.3 73.1 32.9 4.3 647.6 Operating profit loss 211.4 38.2 172.7 1.2 78.1 External interest receivable and similar income 6.7 32.3 39.0 Inter-segment interest receivable payable 6.5 5.3 1.2 Interest receivable and similar income 13.2 27.0 1.2 39.0 Interest payable and similar charges 0.1 0.1 0.2 Net finance income expense 13.1 26.9 1.2 38.8 Share of profit loss of associates and joint ventures 6.6 0.4 6.2 Profit loss before tax 231.1 38.2 146.2 123.1 Exceptional items included in the analysis above see note 4 : Revenues 147.2 147.2 Operating expenses 18.7 1.5 20.2 18.7 1.5 147.2 167.4 Profit before tax and exceptional items 249.8 39.7 1.0 290.5 Profit loss before tax 231.1 38.2 146.2 123.1 Operating expenses include the following non-cash expenses: Share-based payments 21.5 1.3 1.6 24.4 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and software 10.7 0.7 0.5 11.9 Amortisation of other intangible assets 2.5 0.7 3.2 Impairment of other intangible assets 5.2 1.4 6.6 Bad and doubtful debts 2.4 1.2 3.6 Other provisions 3.5 2.7 6.2 45.8 5.3 4.8 55.9 Asset Private Management Banking Group Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m 1 1 2 Segment assets 4,663.9 2,458.6 950.9 8,073.4 Segment liabilities 4,197.9 2,191.6 51.7 6,441.2 466.0 267.0 899.2 1,632.2 Capital expenditure on segment assets 14.7 1.1 0.4 16.2 1 Includes 21.9 million investment in joint ventures, 0.1 million investment in associates.
2 Includes 10.7 million investment in associates.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 80 80 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 3 Segmental reporting continued Impairment losses and the reversal of impairment losses have been recognised in the year as follows: 2008 Asset Private Management Banking Group Total m m m m Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss in respect of: 1 Financial assets 81.3 81.3 2 Intangible assets arising from business combinations 5.2 1.4 6.6 3 Bad and doubtful debts 2.4 1.2 3.6 7.6 2.6 81.3 91.5 1 Reported within revenue as an exceptional item.
2 Reported within administrative expenses as an exceptional item.
ii Geographical information The Group earns its revenue in the following locations: Revenue 2009 2008 Country m m United Kingdom 298.7 236.3 Luxembourg 119.8 116.6 Switzerland 84.4 82.1 Japan 54.4 73.0 Italy 39.1 46.6 USA 39.6 54.1 Hong Kong 38.5 43.3 Korea 37.8 53.4 Taiwan 35.4 34.5 Singapore 32.3 30.3 Other 179.4 165.6 959.4 935.8 The Group holds its non-current assets in the following locations: 1 Non-current assets 2009 2008 Country m m United Kingdom 92.2 143.1 Switzerland 26.3 19.9 Channel Islands 10.8 15.9 China 20.2 20.2 Other 60.7 25.7 210.2 224.8 1 Under IFRS 8, the Group is required to disclose by geographical location amounts of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 81 81 4 Exceptional items, revenues and expenses other disclosures a Exceptional items comprise: 2009 2008 m m Within revenues: Net losses on financial assets 39.1 147.2 Within operating expenses: Redundancy costs 7.8 13.6 Surplus space provision and office rationalisation arising from the cost reduction programme 6.8 Other rationalisation costs 3.9 Impairment of joint ventures and intangible assets 3.7 6.6 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 1.4 23.6 20.2 Total exceptional items 62.7 167.4 The Group believes that the deterioration of the worlds financial markets that occurred during 2008 and which continued to affect markets in 2009 constituted rare events that had a material impact on the value of the Groups investment capital and intangible assets arising from business combinations.
As such, losses on such assets during the year have been classified as exceptional items, together with the cost of redundancies and actions related to the cost reduction programme that have arisen as a direct consequence of market conditions.
b Included in revenues: 2009 2008 m m Property rental income 5.1 4.3 1 Net losses gains on foreign exchange 21.9 107.3 Net gains losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 20.9 138.4 Carried interests and distributions from available-for-sale Private Equity financial assets 1.2 Other net losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.6 27.3 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets equities 27.7 31.4 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets debt securities 6.7 49.9 Foreign exchange losses on impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 7.4 2 Amounts recycled through revenues in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 42.4 107.4 Net losses gains on fair value hedges hedged items 11.0 47.8 Net gains losses on fair value hedges hedging instruments 11.4 49.2 Ineffectiveness recognised in revenue 0.4 1.4 Fee income from fiduciary activities 958.7 1,022.0 Interest income receivable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 60.8 123.5 Interest income receivable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.6 Interest expense payable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 41.5 95.5 Net interest income in Private Banking subsidiaries 19.3 28.6 1 Excludes foreign exchange on forward exchange contracts.
Such gains and losses are included in net gains losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
2 Includes 1.3 million 2008: 70.2 million losses on financial assets that were reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category into the available-for-sale category on 1 July 2008.
If these investments had not been reclassified an additional 7.1 million gain 2008: 21.6 million loss would have been recognised in revenue.
c Included in operating expenses: 2009 2008 m m Salaries and other remuneration 343.6 340.5 Social security costs 36.7 27.1 Other pension costs see note 5 18.2 19.4 Employee benefits expense 398.5 387.0 Operating lease payments 31.8 29.4 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 82 82 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 4 Exceptional items, revenues and expenses other disclosures continued The average number of employees employed by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year was: 2009 2008 Number Number Full-time employees 2,540 2,699 Contract and temporary staff 118 254 2,658 2,953 They were employed as follows all continuing operations : Asset Management 2,281 2,588 Private Banking 322 314 Group 55 51 2,658 2,953 Included in operating expenses: Audit and non-audit fees 2009 2008 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total m m m m m m Audit fees for the Annual Accounts 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Year-end audit services to the subsidiaries of the Company 0.6 1.3 1.9 0.6 1.1 1.7 Other audit services provided pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 Tax services 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.4 0.5 0.9 Other services 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.3 2.1 2.0 4.1 1.9 1.9 3.8 d Included in net finance income: 2009 2008 m m Bank interest receivable 9.5 15.5 1 Other interest receivable on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 0.5 6.6 Interest on financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 2.5 16.9 Interest receivable and similar income 12.5 39.0 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 0.1 Other interest payable on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 1.7 0.1 Interest payable and similar charges 1.7 0.2 1 Includes 0.9 million 2008: 5.6 million interest on impaired financial assets.
5 Retirement benefit obligations 2009 2008 The charge for retirement benefit costs is as follows: m m Pension costs defined contribution plans 15.0 15.9 Pension costs defined benefit plans 2.8 3.4 Other post-employment benefits 0.4 0.1 18.2 19.4 The defined benefit scheme charge in respect of the UK scheme consists of: Current service cost 7.5 8.5 Past service cost 0.2 Expected return on scheme assets 35.0 34.9 Curtailment 0.5 0.5 Interest on scheme liabilities 29.6 28.8 Total charge in respect of the UK scheme 1.8 1.9 Charges in respect of other defined benefit schemes 1.0 1.5 Total defined benefit scheme charges 2.8 3.4 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 83 83 5 Retirement benefit obligations continued The principal scheme in the UK is the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme the Scheme which is non-contributory and administered by the Trustee.
It is a funded scheme comprising a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
It is open to new entrants and has 305 active members in the defined benefit section and 813 active members in the defined contribution section at 31 December 2009 2008: 299 and 878 respectively.
The most recent triennial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2008.
It discloses that the market value of the assets of the Scheme represented 92 per cent.
of the liability at that date, calculated on the funding basis applicable to the Scheme, for the benefits that had accrued to members at that date allowing for future increases in earnings and pensions.
The deficit identified has been met in full during 2010 by a single cash contribution.
The Company paid effective contributions to the defined benefit section in 2009 of 35.8 per cent.
of pensionable salaries to cover the accrual of ongoing benefits.
For joiners on or after 1 June 1989, pensionable salaries for this purpose were subject to the statutory earnings cap which was in force until April 2006, after which this cap was replaced by a notional earnings cap.
The pension cost under IAS 19 for the defined benefit section of the Scheme has been determined by independent qualified actuaries, Hewitt Associates Limited, and is based on an assessment of the Scheme as at 31 December 2009.
This assessment was carried out using the projected unit method and the principal financial assumptions set out below.
Assets were taken at bid value and are held by an independent custodian.
The Group has not materially changed any of the principal financial assumptions underlying the calculation of the Schemes net financial position, although such assumptions have been amended where applicable to reflect current market conditions and expectations.
In the year, the contributions to the defined benefits section of the Scheme totalled 8.6 million 2008: 12.4 million.
The balance sheet liability at 31 December 2009 was 41.1 million 2008: asset of 22.4 million.
Administration expenses and the levy payable to the Pensions Protection Fund are met directly by the Group.
The actual return on Scheme assets was 35.1 million 2008: negative return of 5.1 million.
The Group operates a number of smaller pension schemes around the world, some of which are funded defined benefit schemes with valuations performed regularly by qualified actuaries.
Actuarial assumptions vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the funds are situated.
In addition, there are several defined contribution schemes.
The additional disclosures required by IAS 19 are set out below.
Figures shown are for the defined benefits section of the UK Scheme only.
a Balance sheet assets: 2009 2008 m m Deficit surplus in the UK Scheme 41.1 22.4 b Income statement charge: 2009 2008 m m Pension benefits 1.8 1.9 Pension benefits 2009 2008 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: m m Present value of funded obligations 614.1 525.2 Fair value of plan assets 573.0 547.6 Net liability asset recognised in the balance sheet 41.1 22.4 Scheme assets do not include any of the Companys shares 2008: nil or buildings occupied by the Group 2008: nil.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of the Scheme through the statement of comprehensive income is a 91.6 million loss 2008: 21.3 million loss.
The expected rates of return on individual categories of Scheme assets net of investment expenses only are determined by reference to the following: Bonds based on an outperformance of 0.4 per cent.
per annum above the yield on long-dated government bonds at the balance sheet date.
Equities based on an outperformance of 4.1 per cent.
Liability-matching based on an outperformance of 1.0 per cent.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 84 84 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 5 Retirement benefit obligations continued Other based on the long-term expected return on cash implied by swaps yields, together with an expected return on hedge funds based on outperformance of 1.0 per cent.
per annum above the yield on long-dated government bonds at the balance sheet date 2008: based on the longterm expected return on cash implied by swaps yields, together with an expected return on hedge funds based on outperformance of 1.0 per cent.
The movement in the present value of the UK defined benefit obligation during the year is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 525.2 512.8 Current service cost 7.5 8.5 Past service cost 0.2 Interest cost 29.6 28.8 Curtailment 0.5 0.5 Actuarial losses gains 70.4 9.4 Benefits paid 18.3 15.0 At 31 December 614.1 525.2 The movement in the fair value of Scheme assets during the year is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 547.6 555.3 Expected return 35.0 34.9 Actuarial gains losses 0.1 40.0 Contributions by employer 8.6 12.4 Benefits paid 18.3 15.0 At 31 December 573.0 547.6 The fair value of Scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m 1 Equity instruments 289.2 250.6 Debt instruments 78.3 45.4 Liability-matching assets 190.6 204.8 2 Other assets 14.9 46.8 573.0 547.6 1 Includes property.
of the Schemes assets are liability-driven investments including bonds and derivatives such as interest rate and inflation swaps and cash so as to match the profile of the Schemes liabilities.
is invested in a diversified portfolio of growth assets with an allocation of approximately 45 per cent.
to a range of other asset classes, including property, private equity, hedge funds, currency, high yield and emerging market bonds.
The combination and the spread across the different asset classes has been designed to reduce risk while still generating an expected return in excess of the cost of meeting the Schemes liabilities.
The principal financial assumptions used were as follows: 2009 2008 % % Discount rate 5.5 5.7 Inflation rate 3.9 3.0 Future salary increases 4.7 4.5 Future pension increases for benefits earned before 13 August 2007 3.6 3.0 Future pension increases for benefits earned after 13 August 2007 2.3 2.1 Expected return on Scheme assets analysed as: Equities 8.6 7.8 Bonds 4.9 4.5 Liability-matching assets 5.5 5.7 Other assets 5.2 4.4 Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 60: Years Years Men 28 28 Women 31 30 Number of years future pensioners currently aged 45 are expected to live beyond age 60: Years Years Men 30 30 Women 32 31 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 19:49 Page 85 85 5 Retirement benefit obligations continued The history of the Scheme is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 614.1 525.2 512.8 500.8 471.7 Fair value of Scheme assets 573.0 547.6 555.3 517.6 480.5 Deficit surplus in the Scheme 41.1 22.4 42.5 16.8 8.8 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities 16.6 2.0 0.6 1.0 10.1 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets 0.1 40.0 1.4 14.4 34.8 The amounts under IAS 19 that have been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income SOCI in respect of the UK Scheme are set out below: 2009 2008 m % m % Actual return less expected return on UK Scheme assets 0.1 40.0 % of year-end market value of assets 7.3 Experience gains and losses arising on UK Scheme liabilities 16.6 2.0 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 2.7 0.4 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the UK Scheme liabilities 87.0 7.4 % of year-end present value of UK Scheme liabilities 14.2 1.4 Actuarial losses gains recognised in SOCI 70.3 30.6 % of year-end present value of UK Scheme liabilities 11.4 5.8 The sensitivity of the 2009 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows: Estimated Estimated reduction in reduction in pension pension liabilities liabilities Assumption Assumption change m % Discount rate Increase by 0.5% per annum 57.8 9.4 Expected rate of salary increases Reduce by 0.5% per annum 2.3 0.4 Expected rate of pension increases in payment Reduce by 0.5% per annum 38.7 6.3 Life expectancy Reduce by one year 14.2 2.3 Membership details as at 31 December 2009 are as follows: Active workers 305 Total pensionable salary roll 23.2 million per annum Average age active 46 Average service in plan 10.5 years Number of deferred members 1,466 Total deferred pensions at date of leaving Scheme 9.9 million per annum Average age deferred 48 Number of pensioners 645 Average age pensioners 68 Total pensions in payment 14.0 million per annum The Group currently expects to make contributions totalling approximately 9.0 million during 2010, payable monthly, to cover the accrual of ongoing benefits in the Scheme.
In addition, the Group made a contribution of 53.2 million in February 2010 in relation to the deficit identified on the Schemes funding basis at 31 December 2008, as identified above.
As at 31 December 2009, the amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups retirement benefit scheme deficits are: m UK Retirement Benefit Schemes 41.1 Other defined benefit schemes 5.4 46.5 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 86 86 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 6 Directors a Total emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors amounted to 5.9 million 2008: 5.1 million.
The aggregate of employer contributions to defined contribution arrangements in respect of the Directors during the year was 0.1 million 2008: 0.1 million.
Details of retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution arrangements and under the defined benefit section of the Scheme are provided in the remuneration report.
The emoluments of the highest paid Director during the year amounted to 1.7 million 2008: 1.8 million.
There were 895,748 2008: 250,000 market value share options exercised during 2009 resulting in a gain of 3.3 million 2008: 1.1 million.
There were 1,077,383 2008: nil nil cost options exercised during 2009, resulting in a gain of 10.3 million 2008: nil.
In addition, 375,253 nil cost options were exchanged for 346,648 restricted shares.
There was no gain or loss as a result.
Further details relating to emoluments paid to Directors are given in the remuneration report.
b Rights to deferred cash and shares Details of Directors rights to deferred cash and shares are provided in the remuneration report.
c Directors loans Under the Companies Act 2006, Schroder & Co. Limited is permitted as a banking company to make loans to Directors but no loans have been made 2008: nil.
A non-UK banking subsidiary made a loan of 1.2 million 2008: nil to a Director which was outstanding at the year end.
7 Tax expense a Analysis of charge in the year 2009 2008 m m Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits for the year 32.2 39.5 Double tax relief 18.8 38.2 13.4 1.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 2.9 8.8 4.2 Foreign tax current 36.8 45.1 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 3.5 1.0 Total current tax 42.1 50.3 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.0 3.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 2.0 Total tax charge for the year 41.8 51.8 b Analysis of credit to equity 2009 2008 m m Current income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards 5.4 0.8 Current income tax on movements on available-for-sale financial assets 8.0 1.3 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards current year 10.0 11.3 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards prior year 0.1 0.4 Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 19.6 8.6 Tax credit charge reported in equity 43.1 1.0 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 87 87 7 Tax expense continued c Factors affecting tax charge for the year As of 1 April 2008, the UK standard rate of corporation tax changed from 30 per cent.
leading to a change in the effective UK corporation tax rate used from 28.5 per cent.
The tax charge for the year is higher 2008: higher than the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2009 2008 m m Profit before tax 137.5 123.1 Profit before tax multiplied by corporation tax at the UK rate of 28 per cent.
38.5 35.1 Effects of: Impact of profits losses arising in jurisdictions with higher tax rates 4.3 2.7 Impact of profits losses arising in jurisdictions with lower tax rates 3.0 7.5 Non-taxable income net of disallowable expenses 2.1 0.3 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax current year 9.0 12.3 Effect of share price movements on deferred tax assets relating to share schemes 1.1 2.8 Foreign exchange movements on tax balances 0.6 0.7 UK tax on profits of overseas entities after double tax relief 1.6 4.9 Overseas tax on profits of UK entities after double tax relief 1.6 0.6 Prior year adjustments: UK tax 4.6 2.9 Foreign tax 3.5 1.0 Deferred tax 1.7 2.0 Total tax charge for the year 41.8 51.8 8 Dividends 2009 2008 Pence per Pence per m share m share Declared and paid in year: Final dividend paid 57.4 21.0 59.4 21.0 Interim dividend paid 27.5 10.0 27.3 10.0 84.9 31.0 86.7 31.0 Second interim dividend for 2009 payable 29 March 2010 58.2 21.0 Dividends of 4.0 million 2008: 3.5 million on shares held by the employee trusts have been waived.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent of 95.4 million 2008: 76.7 million by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of own shares.
The post-tax attributable profit adjusted for exceptional items is 150.3 million 2008: 210.9 million.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated as for basic earnings per share with a further adjustment to the weighted average number of shares to reflect the effects of all dilutive potential shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 88 88 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 9 Earnings per share continued Reconciliation of the figures used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2009 2008 Number Number Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share 278,180,961 279,534,683 Effect of dilutive potential shares share options 680,378 1,128,445 Effect of dilutive potential shares contingently issuable shares 158,122 632,053 Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of diluted earnings per share 279,019,461 281,295,181 There have been no material transactions involving shares or potential shares since the reporting date and before the completion of these financial statements.
10 Goodwill 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 112.8 95.2 Exchange translation adjustments 10.1 29.6 Additions 0.1 12.1 Reversal of contingent consideration 24.1 Transfers from intangible assets 12.8 At 31 December 115.6 112.8 At 31 December 2008, the initial accounting for two acquisitions of the Group had been determined only provisionally.
The accounting for these acquisitions has now been finalised and, in respect of the 2008 acquisition of Swiss Re Asset Management Funds Switzerland AG, intangible assets of 12.8 million have been reclassified in the year as goodwill.
This is recorded above within the Transfers from intangible assets line.
A small adjustment was also made in relation to the 2008 acquisition of E. Sun SITE, recorded within the Additions line above.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
For all relevant acquisitions, the lowest level of CGU the Group is able to use to determine impairment is segment level.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2009 2008 m m Asset Management 107.0 103.9 Private Banking 8.6 8.9 115.6 112.8 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions on which management have based their five-year cash flow projections to arrive at the value-in-use are those regarding the market growth rates based on the Groups view of anticipated future market movements, a pre-tax discount rate of 10.2 per cent.
expected fund flows based on the aggregation of local expectations of country heads worldwide and expected changes to margins based on an analysis of the current fee structure flexed to take into account expected changes in product mix and the proportion of rebates payable to external distributors.
The growth rate used within the calculation is 2 per cent.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of goodwill to the methods and assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs is small due to the amount of goodwill on the Groups balance sheet relative to the size of the Groups estimations of future profitability within the business segments to which that goodwill has been allocated.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 89 89 11 Intangible assets 2009 2008 Intangible Intangible assets arising assets arising from business from business combinations Software Total combinations Software Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 44.5 49.0 93.5 12.5 36.4 48.9 Exchange translation adjustments 2.6 1.3 3.9 11.5 3.4 14.9 Additions 1.2 1.2 20.5 9.3 29.8 Transfers to goodwill 12.8 12.8 Disposals 1.0 1.0 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 29.1 47.9 77.0 44.5 49.0 93.5 Amortisation At 1 January 14.3 28.5 42.8 2.7 21.1 23.8 Exchange translation adjustments 0.9 0.9 1.8 1.8 2.9 4.7 Amortisation and impairment for the year 5.3 5.4 10.7 9.8 4.5 14.3 Disposals 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 18.7 32.0 50.7 14.3 28.5 42.8 Carrying amount at 31 December 10.4 15.9 26.3 30.2 20.5 50.7 There were no additions to intangible assets arising from business combinations during the year.
However, at 31 December 2008, the initial accounting for two acquisitions of the Group had been determined only provisionally.
The accounting for these acquisitions has now been finalised and, in respect of the 2008 acquisition of Swiss Re Asset Management Funds Switzerland AG, intangible assets of 12.8 million have been reclassified in the period as goodwill.
This is recorded above within the Transfers to goodwill line.
The amortisation charge for the year in respect of fund management contracts was 2.6 million 2008: 3.2 million.
In addition, a charge for impairment of 2.7 million 2008: 6.6 million was taken in respect of reduced expected future cash inflows from entities acquired by the Group.
Discount rates of between 10.2 per cent.
were used in calculating the estimated levels of impairment.
Amortisation of intangible assets is recorded in the income statement as an operating expense.
The Group has future commitments to purchase software with a value of 0.4 million 2008: nil.
None of the Groups intangible assets are internally generated.
12 Property, plant and equipment 2009 2008 Office Long leasehold Office Long leasehold equipment, premises and equipment, premises and computers leasehold computers leasehold 1 1 and cars improvements Total and cars improvements Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 26.8 53.0 79.8 21.3 44.6 65.9 Exchange translation adjustments 1.4 2.1 3.5 2.7 5.7 8.4 Additions 2.2 2.7 4.9 3.6 3.3 6.9 Disposals 3.5 3.3 6.8 0.8 0.6 1.4 At 31 December 24.1 50.3 74.4 26.8 53.0 79.8 Depreciation At 1 January 19.3 32.8 52.1 15.4 24.9 40.3 Exchange translation adjustments 1.0 1.1 2.1 2.2 3.6 5.8 Depreciation charge for the year 2.8 6.2 9.0 2.5 4.9 7.4 Disposals 3.1 2.8 5.9 0.8 0.6 1.4 At 31 December 18.0 35.1 53.1 19.3 32.8 52.1 Net book value at 31 December 6.1 15.2 21.3 7.5 20.2 27.7 1 Includes lease deposits of 3.1 million 2008: 1.8 million.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is recorded in the income statement as an operating expense.
At 31 December 2009 and 2008, none of the above assets were held under finance leases.
The Group has future commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment with a value of 0.7 million 2008: nil.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 90 90 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 13 Associates and joint ventures 2009 2008 m m Associates 16.5 10.8 Joint ventures 30.0 21.9 Associates and joint ventures 46.5 32.7 Associates The interest in associates comprised: Groups share of postacquisition Equity reserves Total m m m At 1 January 2009 5.5 5.3 10.8 Profit for the year after tax 5.7 5.7 At 31 December 2009 5.5 11.0 16.5 The principal associate, Schroder Ventures Investments Limited SVIL, is unlisted and engaged in private equity investment.
Its results included in these accounts are shown below, together with the Groups percentage interest therein at 31 December 2009.
It is incorporated and operates in Guernsey.
Particulars of issued share and loan capital of the principal associate held by the Group at 31 December 2009 are: Percentage owned by the Class Number Issued capital Group Guernsey Schroder Ventures Investments Limited Ordinary shares 446,200 4,462 50 Deferred shares 107,200 1,072 50 Redeemable preference shares 2,119,450 2,119 50 The financial statements of SVIL are prepared to 30 June each year.
Accounts are prepared to this date so that the companys year end is coterminous with those of its major investments.
For the purposes of applying the equity method of accounting, the interim financial statements of SVIL have been used.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates is set out below: 2009 2008 Other Other SVIL associates Total SVIL associates Total m m m m m m Total assets 33.0 0.3 33.3 21.7 0.6 22.3 Total liabilities 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.6 Net assets 32.8 0.2 33.0 21.2 0.5 21.7 Groups share of associates net assets 16.4 0.1 16.5 10.6 0.2 10.8 Revenue 11.3 0.2 11.5 0.6 0.1 0.5 Profit loss for the year 11.2 0.2 11.4 0.6 0.1 0.7 Groups share of associates profit loss for the year 5.6 0.1 5.7 0.3 0.1 0.4 The Group has a contractual commitment to the further purchase of share capital in SVIL of 4.5 million, subject to call.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 91 91 13 Associates and joint ventures continued Joint ventures The Groups principal joint venture is a 30 per cent.
interest in the ordinary share capital of Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co. Ltd. which is involved in the management of funds in China.
The Group accounts for its holdings in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures is as follows: 2009 2008 China joint Other joint China joint Other joint venture ventures Total venture ventures Total m m m m m m 1 1 Non-current assets 3.4 0.7 4.1 0.7 1.5 2.2 Current assets 32.8 1.5 34.3 24.3 0.3 24.6 Non-current liabilities 1.1 1.1 0.2 0.2 Current liabilities 7.0 0.3 7.3 4.6 0.1 4.7 Total equity 28.1 1.9 30.0 20.2 1.7 21.9 Revenue 26.5 0.5 27.0 16.2 0.5 16.7 Expenses 13.2 0.5 13.7 7.0 0.3 7.3 Tax 3.4 3.4 2.8 2.8 Groups share of joint ventures profit for the year 9.9 9.9 6.4 0.2 6.6 1 Balance consists of goodwill.
14 Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing unit-linked liabilities Assets backing unit-linked liabilities comprise: 2009 2008 m m Investments in authorised unit trusts 1,905.4 1,510.7 1 Other financial assets 3,535.9 2,074.1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 266.7 129.5 5,708.0 3,714.3 The life companys assets are regarded as current assets as clients are able to withdraw funds within one year.
Unit-linked liabilities comprise: 2009 2008 m m Financial liabilities due to life company investors 5,062.9 3,234.7 2 Financial liabilities due to third party investors 645.1 479.6 5,708.0 3,714.3 1 Represents the assets of underlying funds in which the life company invests where the Group is in a position to be able to exercise control over those funds.
2 Such liabilities arise in respect of assets controlled by the Group that are beneficially owned by third parties.
The above assets and unit-linked liabilities arise within the Groups wholly-owned entity, Schroder Pension Management Limited the life company, which purchases units in open-ended authorised unit trusts on behalf of clients seeking to invest in unit trusts with a life assurance wrapper.
The Group has negligible exposure to credit risk in relation to the investments of the life company as the risks and rewards associated with its investments are borne by the investors in the life companys funds and not by the life company itself.
As is common practice in the industry, the life company has granted floating charges over its long term assets to its reinsured policy holders.
The floating charges convert into fixed charges in the event of the insolvency of the life company.
The charge ensures that such policy holders rank equally with direct policy holders in the event of the insolvency or winding-up of the life company.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 92 92 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 15 Non-current financial assets 2009 Fair value Held to through profit Availablematurity or loss for-sale Total m m m m Equities listed 32.9 32.9 Equities unlisted 30.6 30.6 Debt securities listed 27.3 0.3 27.6 Debt securities unlisted 2.5 2.5 Investments 27.3 66.3 93.6 Derivative contracts see note 26 36.1 36.1 27.3 36.1 66.3 129.7 2008 Fair value Held to through profit Availablematurity or loss for-sale Total m m m m Equities listed 24.1 24.1 Equities unlisted 36.8 36.8 Debt securities listed 69.0 0.2 69.2 Other unlisted 0.5 0.5 Investments 69.0 61.6 130.6 Derivative contracts see note 26 24.2 24.2 69.0 24.2 61.6 154.8 The Groups held to maturity financial assets are held within the Groups Private Banking operations as part of their banking book.
Effective from 1 July 2008, the Group adopted the amendment to IAS 39 issued in October 2008 and reclassified held for trading financial assets out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into the available-for-sale category.
The carrying value of the reclassified financial assets at 31 December 2009 is 7.8 million 2008: 7.6 million.
The carrying amount of the non-interest bearing trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 93 93 17 Current financial assets 2009 Fair value Held to through Availablematurity profit or loss for-sale Total m m m m Equities listed 71.1 86.8 157.9 Equities unlisted 11.2 20.9 32.1 Debt securities listed 196.6 393.8 59.5 649.9 Debt securities unlisted 280.9 0.6 192.1 473.6 Investments 477.5 476.7 359.3 1,313.5 Derivative contracts see note 26 25.7 25.7 477.5 502.4 359.3 1,339.2 2008 Fair value Held to through Availablematurity profit or loss for-sale Total m m m m Equities listed 48.5 53.6 102.1 Equities unlisted 39.5 124.7 164.2 Debt securities listed 72.3 363.1 184.6 620.0 Debt securities unlisted 704.4 10.7 3.6 718.7 Investments 776.7 461.8 366.5 1,605.0 Derivative contracts see note 26 56.7 56.7 776.7 518.5 366.5 1,661.7 The Groups held to maturity investments are held within the Groups Private Banking operations as part of their banking book.
Effective from 1 July 2008, the Group adopted the amendment to IAS 39 issued in October 2008 and reclassified held for trading assets out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into the available-for-sale category.
The carrying value of the reclassified financial assets at 31 December 2009 is 59.7 million 2008: 262.1 million.
Factors considered in determining whether impairment has taken place include how many days past the due date a receivable is, deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, and knowledge of specific events that could influence a debtors ability to repay an amount due.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 94 94 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 1,045.0 866.6 Cash equivalents 457.6 201.0 1,502.6 1,067.6 Cash equivalents principally comprise cash on short-term deposit with banks.
The book value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to their fair value.
20 Non-current assets held for sale From time to time, Group companies inject capital into funds operated by the Group seed capital.
Where the Group holds more than 50 per cent.
of the fund in which it is investing and where voting rights are attached to the holding, the Group technically controls the fund and it becomes a subsidiary of the Group.
Where the Group is actively seeking to reduce its holding within 12 months, the fund is classified as being held for sale as it is considered highly probable that the fund will not remain under the control of the Group one year after the original investment is made.
If the Group still retains control of the fund after this time, the fund ceases to be classified as held for sale and is consolidated.
2009 2008 m m Seed capital classified as being held for sale 2.0 At 31 December 2009, the fair value of non-current assets held for sale was nil 2008: 2.0 million.
In the year to 31 December 2009, no investments in funds were classified as non-current assets held for sale.
The two funds in which the Group held seed capital investments at the start of the year ceased to be classified as non-current assets held for sale as they no longer met the conditions within IFRS 5 regarding such classifications.
Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
This may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
The effect of reclassifying these funds on the results of operations is to increase revenue by nil in 2009 2008: increase of 0.5 million.
0.1 million 2008: 1.3 million has been charged to revenue within the income statement in relation to non-current assets held for sale.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of the assets.
21 Financial liabilities 2009 2008 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total m m m m m m Derivative contracts see note 26 23.6 37.6 61.2 100.2 26.4 126.6 Liabilities in respect of consolidated funds 19.7 19.7 9.9 9.9 Deferred consideration payable on acquisitions 8.8 8.8 Other 0.3 0.3 43.6 37.6 81.2 118.9 26.4 145.3 All financial liabilities with the exception of other are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative contracts and liabilities in respect of consolidated funds are held for trading.
Other financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
Liabilities in respect of consolidated funds arise where non-current assets previously classified as being held for sale see note 20 are consolidated.
When this occurs, the Group acquires a liability in respect of units held by third parties in the funds of which the Group has control.
Included in current derivative contracts are forward foreign exchange contracts with a fair value of 0.9 million 2008: 27.2 million held to hedge net investments in foreign operations.
2009 2008 m m Maturing repricing whichever is earlier of financial liabilities excluding derivatives in: Less than 1 year 20.0 18.7 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 95 95 22 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities represent temporary differences, including those arising from bonuses.
a Deferred tax liabilities 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 4.1 2.7 Exchange translation adjustments 0.2 1.3 Income statement credit expense 1.4 0.4 Transfers 0.3 At 31 December 2.5 4.1 b Deferred tax assets 2009 Temporary Accelerated differences Tax losses capital including carried allowances bonuses forward Total m m m m At 1 January 3.6 38.1 1.4 43.1 Exchange translation adjustments 0.6 0.6 Changes in timing differences income statement expense credit 0.7 5.8 5.3 1.2 Debit taken to equity 29.8 29.8 At 31 December 2.9 61.5 6.7 71.1 2008 Temporary Accelerated differences Tax losses capital including carried allowances bonuses forward Total m m m m At 1 January 4.5 36.8 1.5 42.8 Exchange translation adjustments 0.1 4.7 4.8 Changes in timing differences income statement expense credit 1.0 0.1 0.1 1.0 Effect of changes in tax rates income statement expense 3.2 3.2 Transfers 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 3.6 38.1 1.4 43.1 Included in deferred tax assets relating to temporary differences including those arising from bonuses is an asset relating to UK tax deductions for share-based remuneration which are dependent on the prices of Schroders ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares at the time the awards are exercised.
These have been recognised based on the share prices as at 31 December 2009.
Subsequent to the end of the period, Schroders share prices have fallen.
If the asset were recognised at the share price on 2 March 2010, then deferred tax assets would be reduced by 2.3 million all of which would be recognised as a charge directly in equity.
A deferred tax asset of 12.9 million 2008: 12.9 million relating to realised and unrealised capital losses has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable gains in the future against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised.
A deferred tax asset of 34.9 million 2008: 47.8 million relating to losses and other temporary differences has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profit against which these losses and temporary differences can be utilised.
This unrecognised deferred tax includes an amount of 14.9 million 2008: 15.1 million relating to US losses of 42.6 million 2008: 33.4 million, which are subject to a minimum expiry period of 12 years.
The aggregate amount of gross temporary differences regarding investments in subsidiaries is 14.5 million 2008: 29.0 million.
Deferred tax has not been provided as the relevant parent company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Due to changes in UK tax legislation, from 1 July 2009, the use of Excess Unrelieved Foreign Tax EUFT has been abolished.
Therefore, there is no unrecognised deferred tax asset in relation to EUFT as at 31 December 2009 2008: 9.1 million.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 96 96 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 23 Provisions Legal Surplus space and tax and other Total m m m At 1 January 2009 6.8 12.1 18.9 Exchange translation adjustments 0.3 0.4 0.7 Unwinding of discounts 0.4 0.4 Provisions utilised 1.0 2.3 3.3 Additional provisions charged in the year 0.1 6.1 6.2 Unused amounts reversed in the year 3.8 0.1 3.9 At 31 December 2009 1.8 15.8 17.6 Current 2009 1.8 3.0 4.8 Non-current 2009 12.8 12.8 1.8 15.8 17.6 Current 2008 6.8 1.9 8.7 Non-current 2008 10.2 10.2 6.8 12.1 18.9 The Groups provisions are expected to mature in the following time periods: 2009 2008 m m Less than 1 year 4.8 8.7 1 2 years 2.6 2.3 2 3 years 2.3 1.8 3 4 years 2.3 1.7 4 5 years 2.3 1.7 More than 5 years 3.4 3.3 Effect of discounting 0.1 0.6 12.8 10.2 17.6 18.9 Legal and tax The amount is primarily in respect of a potential overseas tax liability and the balance of a provision for indemnification obligations under the terms of the sale of the investment banking business in 2000.
Details are not given as the Directors feel that to do so may prejudice the Group.
The timing of resolution of legal claims is subject to uncertainty, but it is possible that those matters will have been resolved by 31 December 2010.
Surplus space The Group holds provisions of 15.4 million 2008: 11.4 million against certain leaseholds in connection with surplus space.
The provisions for these onerous contracts have been made taking into account residual lease commitments, other outgoings and sub-letting arrangements.
In arriving at the provisions, the cash flows have been discounted at rates representing an estimate of the interest rates relevant to the period of provision.
The weighted average of these rates is 3.3 per cent.
It is envisaged that the provisions will be utilised on an even basis until 2015.
The calculation of the surplus space provisions involves two principal assumptions: an estimation of the time value of money to the Group, and the mitigating effects of sub-letting income receivable.
Cash outflows and inflows are predominantly contractually agreed fixed amounts.
The effect on the provisions of an increase decrease of one per cent.
in the discount rate used in the calculation would be approximately 0.6 million 2008: 0.5 million.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of surplus space provisions to the methods and assumptions used in their estimation is therefore not considered to be significant.
The Groups financial liabilities at amortised cost are expected to mature in the following time periods: 2009 2008 m m 1 Less than 1 year 385.6 387.3 1 2 years 52.8 34.1 2 3 years 9.4 9.9 3 4 years 6.7 3.0 4 5 years 3.3 2.0 More than 5 years 5.4 11.7 77.6 60.7 463.2 448.0 1 Settlement accounts are generally settled within 4 2008: 4 working days and trade creditors have an average settlement period of 12 2008: 10 working days.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes.
Risk management: the Group actively seeks to limit and manage its exposures to risk where that exposure is not desired by the Group.
This may take the form of unwanted exposures to a particular currency, type of interest rate or other price risk.
By purchasing or selling derivative contracts, the Group is able to mitigate or eliminate such exposures.
The principal risk the Group faces through such use of derivative contracts is credit risk.
For details of how the Group manages its exposures to credit risk, see b below and note 27.
Customer facilitation: The Groups Private Banking entities are involved in providing portfolio management, banking and investment advisory services, primarily to private clients.
In carrying out this business they transact as agent and principal in financial assets and liabilities in order to meet customer facilitation requirements.
Private Bankings policy is to hedge, as appropriate, exchange rate and interest rate risk on its customer facilitation positions using foreign exchange and interest rate contracts.
This hedging of equal and opposite risks seeks to mitigate market risk, but does not eliminate the possibility of credit risk.
For details of how the Group manages its exposures to credit risk, see b below and note 27. b What kind of derivatives the Group uses Currency forwards represent commitments to sell or purchase foreign and domestic currency, including undelivered spot transactions.
Foreign currency and interest rate futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or interest rates or to buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price, established in an organised financial market.
For customer facilitation contracts, the credit risk is minimal, as futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities, and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the exchange.
For other contracts, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the fair value of the contracts.
Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates for example, fixed rate for floating rate or a combination of all these i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
No exchange of principal takes place, except for certain currency swaps.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligations.
This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Company assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign exchange, equity and interest rate options are contractual agreements under which the seller writer grants the purchaser holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument at a predetermined price.
The seller receives a premium from the purchase in consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, equity or interest rate risk.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer or market counterparty OTC.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
2009 2008 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Interest rate contracts 197.8 2.8 3.9 141.4 2.1 4.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,593.0 25.4 24.0 2,054.0 52.7 96.4 Equity contracts 502.7 32.3 31.7 309.7 20.1 20.7 Commodity contracts 56.1 1.3 1.6 154.7 6.0 5.4 3,349.6 61.8 61.2 2,659.8 80.9 126.6 The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, indices, foreign exchange rates and other relevant variables relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favourable or unfavourable, and thus the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities, can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 99 99 26 Derivative contracts continued 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m 1 Net-settled interest rate contracts maturing repricing in: Less than 1 year 0.4 0.2 1 2 years 0.6 0.1 2 3 years 0.1 0.6 0.5 3 4 years 0.2 0.6 4 5 years 0.1 0.1 0.3 More than 5 years 1.7 3.0 1.3 3.1 2.8 3.9 2.1 4.1 1 Gross-settled forward foreign exchange contracts in Private Banks maturing repricing in: Less than 1 year: Gross inflows 1,160.1 1,059.6 861.2 731.7 Gross outflows 1,160.1 1,059.2 851.6 725.8 Difference between future contractual cash flows and fair value 21.1 18.7 37.0 48.6 21.1 18.3 46.6 42.7 1 2 years: Gross inflows 4.1 4.0 35.2 35.2 Gross outflows 4.0 4.1 34.9 34.9 Difference between future contractual cash flows and fair value 0.3 0.9 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.6 2 3 years: Gross inflows 75.1 75.2 9.8 9.8 Gross outflows 75.2 75.1 9.6 9.6 Difference between future contractual cash flows and fair value 3.6 3.6 0.1 0.3 3.5 3.5 0.1 0.1 1 Gross-settled forward foreign exchange contracts in the rest of the Group maturing repricing in: Less than 1 year: Gross inflows 104.7 171.2 49.8 406.2 Gross outflows 103.9 173.6 44.8 458.5 Difference between future contractual cash flows and fair value 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.7 2.1 5.4 53.0 1 Net-settled equity contracts maturing repricing in: Less than 1 year 2.7 2.1 3.7 4.3 1 2 years 11.4 11.4 0.1 0.1 2 3 years 18.2 18.2 16.3 16.3 32.3 31.7 20.1 20.7 1 Net-settled commodity contracts maturing repricing in: Less than 1 year 0.8 1.1 0.9 0.3 1 2 years 0.5 0.5 1.4 1.4 2 3 years 3.7 3.7 1.3 1.6 6.0 5.4 61.8 61.2 80.9 126.6 1 Whichever is earlier.
27 Financial instrument risk management The Group is subject to market risk throughout its business.
In addition, operational, liquidity and credit risk exposures exist within the business.
The effectiveness of the Groups risk management process is, therefore, critical to its soundness and profitability and considerable resources are dedicated to this area.
Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Groups senior management.
The Schroder Group Risk and Compliance functions are responsible for monitoring the overall risk environment.
The Group has established a control environment that ensures risks are reviewed regularly and that all risk controls operating throughout the Group are in accordance with regulatory requirements.
In addition, an independent assessment of the risk management process and the fundamental risk assumptions is provided by Schroder Group Internal Audit.
Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
The Group carefully manages its exposure to credit risk by approving lending policies including types of acceptable collateral and minimum lending margins, setting limits for individual exposures and sectors and by taking security.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 100 100 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 Financial instrument risk management continued All individual facility requests are presented to the relevant Private Bank credit committees and exposures against limits are monitored daily.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets less the collateral held on its loans and advances to customers.
Loans and advances to customers, trade and other receivables and cash and other equivalents at amortised cost Financial assets at amortised cost principally comprise loans and advances to customers, fee debtors, settlement accounts and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and advances to customers are fully secured on a range of assets including property both residential and commercial, cash, client portfolios and insurance policies.
It is the policy of the Groups Private Banking entities not to advance client facilities on an unsecured basis.
Collateral, except for property, is marked to market daily and positions compared to customer loans.
Limits are set for the reduction in market value of each type of collateral, depending on the perceived risk associated with the collateral.
Clients are contacted once these limits are breached so that action can be taken before the outstanding loan balances exceed the fair value of the collateral.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had no 2008: nil loans and advances to customers that were past due and not impaired.
Fee debtors arise principally within the Groups institutional business and amounts are monitored regularly by local offices.
Historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
Although the Group is usually managing client cash representing a large multiple of the amount owed to the Group by the client, the Group does not hold any of the assets it invests on behalf of its clients as collateral.
The Groups fee debtors and other debtors that are past due but are not considered to be impaired are presented below.
2009 2008 m m Not older than 30 days 0.4 2.7 Older than 30 days not older than 45 days 1.5 2.6 Older than 45 days not older than 60 days 2.5 2.3 Older than 60 days not older than 90 days 1.7 2.3 Older than 90 days not older than 120 days 1.0 Older than 120 days not older than 180 days 0.3 0.7 Older than 180 days 0.2 0.3 6.6 11.9 The credit risk attributable to settlement accounts is 100 per cent.
of the nominal amount involved.
However, the period of exposure is short and the majority of the counterparties are unit trusts managed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents are concentrated principally in its Private Banking entities and fall within their treasury portfolios see the Held to maturity financial assets section below.
The remainder of the Groups cash and cash equivalents is invested primarily in current accounts and on deposit with well-rated UK and overseas banks.
Breakdown of cash and cash equivalents by grade as at 31 December: 2009 2008 % % 1 Credit rating : AAA 2 1 AA 2 AA 30 17 AA- 15 13 A 33 46 A 10 18 A- 4 BBB 1 BBB 1 Non-rated 4 3 100 100 1 Provided by rating agencies.
Debt securities at amortised cost Most debt securities within the Private Banks treasury book are classified as held to maturity and are unsecured.
Policies and limits are set by the relevant Private Bank credit committee and monitored daily.
of the treasury portfolio is rated Aor better.
The portfolio has no exposures to emerging markets, sub-investment grade assets or any asset-backed securities.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 101 101 27 Financial instrument risk management continued The Private Banks take a conservative approach to their treasury investments which are concentrated in terms of industrial sectors purely to well-rated UK and overseas banks and government securities.
All assets within the treasury book are unsecured.
No held to maturity financial assets or loans and advances to banks were impaired during the year 2008: nil or are past due as at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Breakdown by investment grade as at 31 December: 2009 2008 % % 1 Credit rating : AAA 30 AA 3 24 AA 43 55 A 7 15 A 13 2 A 4 4 100 100 1 Provided by rating agencies.
Debt securities, equities and derivatives at fair value Substantially all of the Groups investments in equities at fair value are in listed companies or in listed and unlisted funds managed by the Group.
The Group also has investments in unlisted private equity funds.
For each type of equity and debt security investment, the maximum credit risk is the carrying value.
Breakdown of debt securities by investment grade as at 31 December: 2009 2008 % % 2 Credit rating : Sovereign 15 29 AAA 8 26 AA 11 AA 34 16 AA 15 3 A 20 7 A 8 3 A 1 Non-investment grade 4 100 100 2 Provided by rating agencies.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Schroders cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
The principal liquidity risk the Group faces concerns its Private Banking liabilities.
The liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding, meet all obligations as they fall due and maintain the solvency of the Private Banks as well as the rest of the Group.
This is maintained through the management of the Private Banks treasury against limits set and monitored daily.
For details of maturity analyses, see notes 18, 21, 23, 24, 25 and 26, although, in practice, customer deposits tend to be repaid later than on the earliest date on which repayment can be required.
In terms of non-Private Banking liquidity, the Groups policy is that its subsidiaries should trade solvently and have adequate capital for all activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
In particular, all companies should have sufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements, keep an appropriate credit standing with counterparties, and maintain sufficient liquid funds to meet peak working capital requirements.
In total, the Group holds investment capital of over 1 billion, three quarters of which is in short-term bank deposits or is invested in liquid securities with maturity dates of less than three months.
Liquidity in the Groups investment capital portfolios is monitored on a regular basis.
When policyholders withdraw funds from the life company business and in the Groups reasonable opinion it is required, the Group may delay payment by 30 days and in the case of real estate funds by 180 days.
The Group is not required to surrender all units at the same time and may surrender units in such numbers, at such intervals over the relevant period as the Group considered appropriate.
Schroders has no committed standby lines 2008: nil.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 16:58 Page 102 102 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 Financial instrument risk management continued Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
In the Private Banks, interest rates are monitored against policies and limits set by the relevant risk committee.
Schroders treasury policy is to hedge fixed-rated assets and liabilities back to the floating rate as much as possible and therefore outright interest rate risk arises mainly from the decision to allow a limited amount of mismatch between the cash flows.
Within the Private Banks, three methods are used for monitoring interest rate risk: Sensitivity analysis PV01 this assesses the impact on Schroders current net worth against a one basis point parallel rise in interest rates and is calculated daily for each currency regularly and then in aggregate.
Sensitivity analysis PV100 this assesses the impact on Schroders current net worth against a 100 basis point parallel rise in interest rates and is calculated regularly for each currency and then in aggregate.
Stress testing PV200 this is calculated in the same way as the PV01, but against the much more severe change of a 200 basis point movement both up and down in interest rates.
Interest rate risk in the Private Bank is limited due to the short-term nature of the Private Banks financial assets.
In the case of changes in market interest rates, the Private Banks treasurer can reprice the assets within an average of between two and three months 2008: two months.
Cash held by the operating companies is not normally expected to be placed on deposit for longer than three months.
The Groups capital includes investments in fixed income and money market portfolios, and funds managed by the Groups fixed income fund managers.
These investments are managed to a maximum average duration of two years 2008: two years.
The fund managers may reduce the average duration with the use of futures contracts at their discretion.
At 31 December 2009, if interest rates had been 250 basis points higher nil basis points lower 2008: 100 basis points higher 200 basis points lower with all other variables held constant, the Group estimates that post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 18 million nil 2008: increased by 4 million decreased by 8 million respectively, mainly as a result of higher lower interest income on the Groups floating rate debt securities and cash: other components of equity would have been unaffected.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits in the Private Banks: The fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates Within the Private Bank, the fixed rate financial assets will be repriced to the higher lower market interest rates The average term for repricing is between two and three months 2008: two months.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits in the rest of the Group: The fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates Funds would be reinvested in similar variable interest bearing debt securities on maturity.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
In the Private Banks, some loans and advances to clients as well as a proportion of the treasury activities are undertaken in foreign currencies: however, this is hedged on a daily basis to reduce currency exposures to low levels.
Limits regarding the amount of foreign currency risk that the Group is exposed to are set by the relevant risk committee and monitored daily.
Given the low level of currency mismatch within the Group, the FSAs Basic Methodology for calculating the exposure is used.
The Groups policy in relation to revenue and expenditure currency exposure is not to hedge, as the Groups revenue is earned and expenditure incurred in many currencies and the resulting exposure is considered part of the business.
The Group hedges some of its investments in foreign operations using forward foreign exchange contracts with third parties to mitigate exposure to currency movements where it is considered that the sterling values of such amounts are at risk.
The use of such instruments is subject to the approval of the Group Capital Committee.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 16:58 Page 103 103 27 Financial instrument risk management continued The Groups balance sheet is exposed to the following currencies: 2009 2008 Gross exposure Hedged Net exposure Gross exposure Hedged Net exposure m m m m m m US dollar 575 474 101 580 512 68 Euro 259 91 168 314 97 217 Swiss franc 129 129 150 150 Australian dollar 26 14 12 23 12 11 Hong Kong dollar 23 23 30 30 Japanese yen 20 20 35 35 Other 90 90 94 94 1,122 579 543 1,226 621 605 Sterling 527 579 1,106 406 621 1,027 1,649 1,649 1,632 1,632 The Group estimates that, at 31 December 2009, if the US dollar had strengthened by 10 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 8 million 6 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 7 million 6 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
The Group estimates that, at 31 December 2009, if the euro had strengthened by 8 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 2 million 2 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 18 million 22 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
The Group estimates that, at 31 December 2008, if the US dollar had strengthened by 5 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 1 million 2 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 3 million 7 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
The Group estimates that, at 31 December 2008, if the euro had strengthened by 5 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 1 million 2 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 11 million 26 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
Pricing risk Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group holds equity investments in its seed capital portfolio.
Equity market exposure is hedged where it is considered that the amount at risk is material and an effective hedge is available.
The Group also holds debt security investments in its fixed income and money market portfolios.
Pricing risk of these investments is partially mitigated by their short-term nature.
The Group estimates that, at 31 December 2009, if the FTSE All Share Index had been 20 per cent.
higher lower with all other variables held constant, the effect on post-tax profit would be an increase decrease of 30 million 38 million 2008: 53 million 70 million respectively, principally as a result of an increase decrease in management fees receivable and impairment losses on the Groups unhedged available-for-sale financial assets: other components of equity would increase decrease by 14 million 8 million respectively 2008: 12 million nil, principally as a result of fair value gains on the Groups unhedged available-for-sale financial assets.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits and other components of equity: Changes in the FTSE All Share Index correlate to changes in the Groups equity funds Performance fees, being principally based on returns relative to specified indices, would be unaffected by changes in the index The Groups investments in debt securities and hedge funds have no correlation to the FTSE All Share Index The Groups Private Equity investments is perfectly correlated to the FTSE All Share Index for all but property investments, which are assumed to have no correlation The market risk on the Groups seed capital investments is hedged effectively.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 104 104 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 Financial instrument risk management continued Fair value measurements The Group holds financial instruments that are measured at fair value subsequent to initial recognition.
Each instrument has been categorised within one of three levels using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
These levels are based on the degree to which the fair value is observable and are defined as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices : Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The Groups financial instruments at the balance sheet date are analysed as follows: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Non-current financial assets: Equities 2.9 6.9 53.7 63.5 Debt securities 0.3 2.5 2.8 Derivative contracts 36.1 36.1 3.2 45.5 53.7 102.4 Current financial assets: Equities 127.1 21.5 41.4 190.0 Debt securities 181.0 465.0 646.0 Derivative contracts 1.6 24.1 25.7 309.7 510.6 41.4 861.7 Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 5,353.3 26.7 61.3 5,441.3 5,666.2 582.8 156.4 6,405.4 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Non-current financial liabilities: Derivative contracts 37.6 37.6 Current financial liabilities: Derivative contracts 0.2 23.4 23.6 Liabilities in respect of consolidated funds 19.7 19.7 Other 0.3 0.3 20.2 23.4 43.6 Unit-linked liabilities 5,708.0 5,708.0 5,728.2 61.0 5,789.2 Instruments classified as Level 1 principally comprise investments in quoted equities, daily-priced funds, gilts, amounts due to unit-linked policy holders and exchange-traded derivatives.
Investments classified as Level 2 principally comprise corporate bonds and foreign exchange contracts.
Investments classified as Level 3 principally comprise investments in private equity and hedge funds.
There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the period.
Movements in financial assets categorised as Level 3 during the year were: Assets backing unit-linked Equities liabilities Total m m m At 1 January 2009 139.9 64.6 204.5 Exchange translation adjustments 4.9 4.9 Total gains or losses recognised in profit or loss 7.0 3.3 10.3 Total gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income 11.9 11.9 Additions 31.6 31.6 Disposals 76.4 76.4 At 31 December 2009 95.1 61.3 156.4 There were no financial liabilities categorised as Level 3 in the period.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 105 105 27 Financial instrument risk management continued Of the total gains or losses recognised in profit or loss during the year, 7.5 million net gains related to assets and liabilities still held by the Group at the balance sheet date.
Such gains or losses are included within Revenue in the income statement.
As stated above, instruments classified as Level 3 principally comprise investments in private equity and hedge funds.
Private equity fund valuations are normally supplied to the Group by the funds investment advisors and subsequently reviewed and validated internally by the Group.
When reviewing valuations, the Group considers such factors as valuations of relevant comparable investments, current industry trading multiples and the materiality of any differences in valuation between in-house estimations and the valuations supplied to us by third parties and those derived from reasonably possible alternatives as produced by the Groups in-house models.
In respect of hedge funds, the process is similar in that the funds are valued by a third party with subsequent internal review by the Group.
The Group has little visibility as to the assumptions inherent in the valuations it receives, although validation checks can be performed by comparing discrete returns with movements in publicly-available indices such as the Credit Suisse Tremont index.
At the year-end, the Group was not aware of any significant differences between the valuations received and reasonably possible alternatives explored by the Group.
Capital management The Groups capital is divided between Operating capital consisting of Asset Management and Private Banking capital and Group investment capital.
An analysis of this is shown in the table of Group Capital in the Financial Review.
Operating capital Operating capital is the capital required to meet the Groups regulatory and working capital requirements.
Recognised regulatory bodies, such as the Financial Service Authority in the UK, oversee the activities of many of the Groups operating subsidiaries and impose minimum capital requirements on the subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is that its subsidiaries should have sufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements, keep an appropriate standing with counterparties and meet working capital requirements.
The Group Capital Committee regularly reviews this.
Schroders plc is regulated by the Financial Services Authority as a UK consolidation group.
The current capital resource calculation of capital resources for banks, is 1,286 million December 2008: 1,422 million and the Pillar 1 minimum capital requirement is 258 million December 2008: 277 million.
The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process carried out in 2009 under Pillar 2 of the Capital Requirements Directive concluded that 590 million capital should be retained.
Operating capital is maintained at this level.
All regulated entities within the Group complied at all times with all of the externally imposed regulatory capital requirements.
Group investment capital Group investment capital is used to seed new investment strategies, co-invest selectively alongside our clients and finance organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
It is deployed in accordance with limits approved by the Board.
Group investment capital is the Groups capital that is not required for the regulatory and working capital requirements of the business.
It is invested in the following areas: Cash Debt securities Seed capital Private equity Third party hedge funds Other legacy investments.
The Group investment capital is held to assist existing products and businesses and to accelerate their development: to support the organic development of new businesses which fit with the existing asset management franchise: and to respond to other investment and growth opportunities, such as acquisitions that will accelerate the development of the business, as they arise.
The investments in seed capital and property funds are primarily to support the business.
The remainder of the Group investment capital is invested in cash, fixed income and liquid debt securities, a portfolio of third party hedge funds and private equity.
The objectives are to maintain liquidity and to optimise the return on investments.
Other structural considerations underlying the way in which Group investment capital is deployed are to avoid or hedge exposure to markets so as not to increase the Groups operational gearing and to minimise currency exposure by hedging into sterling.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp070-106 File 07 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 106 106 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 28 Additional disclosures on financial instruments 2009 At fair value through profit or loss Designated as at fair value NonAt through financial amortised Held to Held for profit or AvailableHeld for instrucost maturity trading loss for-sale sale ments Total m m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill 115.6 115.6 Intangible assets 26.3 26.3 Property, plant and equipment 21.3 21.3 Associates and joint ventures 46.5 46.5 Financial assets 504.8 538.5 425.6 1,468.9 Loans and advances to customers 964.2 964.2 Deferred tax 71.1 71.1 Current tax 20.5 20.5 Trade and other receivables 316.9 26.7 343.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1,502.6 1,502.6 Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 266.7 5,441.3 5,708.0 3,050.4 504.8 538.5 5,441.3 425.6 328.0 10,288.6 Liabilities Financial liabilities 0.3 80.9 81.2 Deposits by customers and banks 2,287.6 2,287.6 Deferred tax 2.5 2.5 Provisions 17.6 17.6 Current tax 16.5 16.5 Retirement benefit scheme deficits 46.5 46.5 Trade and other payables 463.2 16.5 479.7 Unit-linked liabilities 5,708.0 5,708.0 2,768.7 80.9 5,708.0 82.0 8,639.6 2008 At fair value through profit or loss Designated as at fair value NonAt through financial amortised Held to Held for profit or AvailableHeld for instrucost maturity trading loss for-sale sale ments Total m m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill 112.8 112.8 Intangible assets 50.7 50.7 Property, plant and equipment 27.7 27.7 Associates and joint ventures 32.7 32.7 Financial assets 845.7 533.9 8.8 428.1 1,816.5 Loans and advances to customers 802.4 802.4 Deferred tax 43.1 43.1 Retirement benefit scheme assets 22.4 22.4 Current tax 15.5 15.5 Trade and other receivables 344.8 20.9 365.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1,067.6 1,067.6 Non-current assets held for sale 2.0 2.0 Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 129.5 3,584.8 3,714.3 2,344.3 845.7 533.9 3,593.6 428.1 2.0 325.8 8,073.4 Liabilities Financial liabilities 136.5 8.8 145.3 Deposits by customers and banks 2,057.0 2,057.0 Deferred tax 4.1 4.1 Provisions 18.9 18.9 Current tax 22.8 22.8 Trade and other payables and retirement benefit scheme deficits 448.0 30.8 478.8 Unit-linked liabilities 3,714.3 3,714.3 2,523.9 136.5 3,723.1 57.7 6,441.2 For all financial instruments, carrying value approximates fair value.
Details of differences between the carrying and fair values of non-current assets held for sale are set out in note 20.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 107 107 29 Share capital Non-voting Ordinary ordinary Total Share Number shares shares shares premium of shares m m m m At 1 January 2009 286,713,360 226.0 60.7 286.7 61.2 Shares issued 2,064,537 2.1 2.1 11.3 At 31 December 2009 288,777,897 226.0 62.8 288.8 72.5 Non-voting Ordinary ordinary Total Share Number shares shares shares premium of shares m m m m At 1 January 2008 294,498,843 226.0 68.5 294.5 58.1 Shares issued 752,747 0.8 0.8 3.1 Shares cancelled 8,538,230 8.6 8.6 At 31 December 2008 286,713,360 226.0 60.7 286.7 61.2 2009 2008 2009 2008 Number Number m m Authorised: Ordinary shares of 1 each 226,022,400 226,022,400 226.0 226.0 Non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each 113,977,598 113,977,598 114.0 114.0 339,999,998 339,999,998 340.0 340.0 Allotted, called-up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1 each 226,022,400 226,022,400 226.0 226.0 Non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each 62,755,497 60,690,960 62.8 60.7 288,777,897 286,713,360 288.8 286.7 The difference between the share classes The non-voting ordinary shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not confer the right to attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company, and that on a capitalisation issue they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
30 Own shares Employee trusts have been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards.
At 31 December 2009, the trusts held 1,438,135 2008: 4,406,488 non-voting ordinary shares costing 12.4 million 2008: 42.1 million, with a market value of 15.4 million 2008: 30.1 million.
In addition, the trusts held 9,088,588 2008: 9,450,527 voting ordinary shares costing 92.7 million 2008: 97.7 million, with a market value of 120.9 million 2008: 81.1 million.
Dividends on shares held by the trusts are waived.
In addition, the Group holds a further 600,000 non-voting ordinary shares within treasury.
The shares cost 5.9 million and have a market value of 6.4 million.
Movements during the year were as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 100.8 75.5 Own shares purchased 19.6 45.5 1 Own shares disposed through vesting 30.7 20.2 At 31 December 89.7 100.8 1 On vesting, own shares balances are transferred to the profit and loss reserve insofar as they relate to share-based payments and to the shares to be issued reserve insofar as they relate to certain contractual obligations to issue shares for example, as part of the consideration for an acquisition.
2009 2008 Number Number of shares Cost Market value of shares Cost Market value Units m m Units m m Group Shares funded by employing companies 2,318,878 21.3 27.7 4,132,179 39.0 28.9 Own shares 8,807,845 89.7 115.0 9,724,836 100.8 82.3 11,126,723 111.0 142.7 13,857,015 139.8 111.2 Company Own shares 7,627,034 75.7 99.9 8,247,911 84.9 70.8 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 108 108 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 31 Other reserves Shares to Capital Own shares Net exchange Hedging 1 3 3 be issued reserves held differences reserve Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 5.0 203.4 100.8 294.4 173.4 228.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 112.8 65.8 47.0 Amounts recycled through the income statement 7.4 7.4 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 105.4 65.8 39.6 Shares cancelled Consideration paid in the form of shares 5.0 4.9 0.1 Own shares purchased 19.6 19.6 Retained profit transfers 29.2 25.8 14.6 11.2 At 31 December 2009 174.2 89.7 203.6 107.6 180.5 Shares to Capital Own shares Net exchange Hedging 1 3 3 be issued reserves held differences reserve Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 10.1 161.8 75.5 28.3 4.1 64.0 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 322.7 169.3 153.4 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 322.7 169.3 153.4 Shares cancelled 8.5 8.5 Consideration paid in the form of shares 5.1 4.9 0.2 Own shares purchased 45.5 45.5 2 Retained profit transfers 33.1 15.3 48.4 At 31 December 2008 5.0 203.4 100.8 294.4 173.4 228.6 1 Shares to be issued represent outstanding deferred consideration in respect of the 2006 acquisition of NewFinance Holdings Limited.
2 Includes a non-distributable credit of 26.1 million from retained profits in respect of a bonus issue made by a subsidiary of Schroders plc.
3 Net exchange differences arise on the translation of the net assets of the Groups non-sterling operations into sterling.
The hedging reserve offsets such differences, recording the changes in fair value of financial instruments used to hedge these exposures.
32 Retained profits reserve Associates and joint ventures Fair value Profit and 1 reserve reserve loss reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2009 14.6 16.9 1,023.9 1,055.4 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 69.6 69.6 Net gains on available-for-sale financial assets 3.2 12.6 15.8 Amounts recycled through the income statement 35.0 35.0 Tax on items taken directly to equity 8.0 35.1 43.1 Other comprehensive income 3.2 55.6 34.5 24.3 Profit for the year 15.6 79.8 95.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 18.8 55.6 45.3 119.7 Share-based payments 27.6 27.6 Dividends 84.9 84.9 Transfers within retained profits reserve 2.7 2.7 Transfers to from other reserves 14.6 3.4 11.2 At 31 December 2009 30.7 57.9 1,018.0 1,106.6 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 109 109 32 Retained profits reserve continued Associates and joint ventures Fair value Profit and 1 reserve reserve loss reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 20.8 99.4 1,158.9 1,279.1 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 29.6 29.6 Net losses on available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 191.2 194.3 Amounts recycled through the income statement 107.4 107.4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1.3 2.3 1.0 Other comprehensive income 3.1 82.5 31.9 117.5 Profit for the year 6.2 70.5 76.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 3.1 82.5 38.6 40.8 Shares cancelled 71.8 71.8 Share-based payments 24.4 24.4 Dividends 86.7 86.7 Transfers within retained profits reserve 9.3 9.3 Transfers to from other reserves 48.4 48.4 Share issue costs 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 14.6 16.9 1,023.9 1,055.4 1 The fair value reserve represents the difference between the cost or, if an asset has been reclassified, fair value at the date of reclassification and the fair value of unimpaired financial assets classified as available-for-sale.
33 Minority interests 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 0.3 0.5 Profit loss retained for the year 0.3 5.4 Transfer to financial liabilities 5.9 Distributions made 0.7 At 31 December 0.6 0.3 34 Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities 2009 2008 m m Operating profit 111.1 78.1 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of software 14.4 11.9 Impairment and amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 5.3 9.8 Impairment of associates and joint ventures 1.0 Impairment of financial assets 34.4 81.3 Other amounts recycled through the income statement in respect of financial assets 0.6 26.1 Increase in trade and other receivables 148.3 134.1 Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 214.4 112.9 Increase in unit-linked liabilities 1,993.7 986.5 Net charge for provisions 2.5 6.2 1 Net losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 0.3 48.2 Share-based payments expensed 27.6 24.4 2 Other non-cash movements 19.8 134.2 Payments made to the UK defined benefit pension scheme 8.6 12.4 UK corporation tax recovered paid 4.8 21.7 Overseas tax paid 43.9 90.8 Interest paid 1.7 0.2 Net purchase of assets backing unit-linked liabilities 1,856.5 858.5 Net cash from operating activities 370.9 133.5 1 Excludes gains and losses on all derivative assets and liabilities.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 110 110 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 35 Commitments and contingent liabilities a Commitments 2009 2008 m m Documentary credits 2.7 10.1 Undrawn loan facilities 30.7 48.2 Investment call commitments 24.9 38.8 58.3 97.1 b Contingent liabilities 2009 2008 m m Assets pledged as collateral security 49.1 53.1 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 38.0 53.5 Other contingent liabilities 0.4 87.1 107.0 Transactions giving rise to contingent liabilities are only entered into by the Group once it has received sufficient high-quality collateral from the client.
The collateral may be in the form of cash, fiduciary deposits or securities held by the Groups Private Banking entities but may also include charges over property or third party guarantees.
c Litigation Certain Group undertakings are the subject of current or pending legal actions or regulatory reviews: the Directors believe that none of these, either individually or in aggregate, is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
d i Operating leases as lessee At 31 December, the Groups total future aggregate minimum lease payments were: 2009 2008 Office Office Offices equipment Offices equipment m m m m Commitment expiring in: Less than 1 year 30.3 1.0 31.9 1.3 1 5 years 87.9 0.8 97.6 1.0 More than 5 years 21.2 45.9 139.4 1.8 175.4 2.3 Leases in respect of office properties are negotiated for an average term of 2.6 years 2008: 3.8 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 2.3 years 2008: 3.0 years.
Leases in respect of office equipment are negotiated for an average term of 1.9 years 2008: 2.3 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 1.9 years 2008: 2.1 years.
ii Operating leases as lessor The Group sublets certain of its properties around the world.
At 31 December, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were: 2009 2008 Offices Offices m m Commitment expiring in: Less than 1 year 5.1 5.4 1 5 years 21.3 21.3 More than 5 years 6.7 9.0 33.1 35.7 Subleases in respect of office properties are negotiated for an average term of 5.0 years 2008: 7.5 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3.7 years 2008: 5.7 years.
e Other Obligations of certain Group companies under the Euroclear settlement system are secured by charges on assets held on their behalf from time to time within that system and by cash deposits placed.
In the ordinary course of business, subsidiary undertakings have custody of customers securities, act as trustees and issue indemnities on behalf of customers who have lost certificates of title.
The Company and subsidiary undertakings have also provided letters of comfort to regulatory authorities and others that subsidiary undertakings will be capitalised adequately and will meet their contractual obligations.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 111 111 36 Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments The Group has the following share-based payment arrangements: Share Option Plan 1999: Options over non-voting ordinary shares were granted to executive Directors and other key employees.
Under the Share Option Plan 1999 the performance target of all option holders, including executive Directors, was that the Companys earnings per share growth must be at least two per cent.
per annum above the increase in the Retail Price Index over a minimum five-year period.
This performance condition was in line with market practice at the time of the award.
The Company no longer grants awards under this plan.
Share Option Plan 2000: Under this Plan, the Group grants market value share options over non-voting ordinary shares to executive Directors and other key employees.
Options usually become exercisable if the option holder remains with the Group for at least three years and, for executive Directors, the performance target has been met.
The performance target, in line with market practice, is that the Companys earnings per share growth defined as the earnings per ordinary share before any exceptional items, as derived from the Companys Annual Report and Accounts must be at least four per cent.
per annum above the increase in the Retail Price Index over the initial three-year period.
Equity Compensation Plan 2000: Under this Plan, executive Directors and other key employees receive deferred bonus awards over either voting or non-voting ordinary shares, normally structured as rights to acquire shares at nil cost.
These awards are subject to forfeiture and will vest on the third anniversary provided the participant continues to be employed within the Group.
Further details are given in the remuneration report.
All of the above share-based payment arrangements involve a maximum term of ten years for each option granted and are settled through the transfer of shares of the Company to its employees.
Share Incentive Plan: Under this Scheme approved by HM Revenue & Customs, eligible employees can purchase shares in the Company each month up to 1,500 per taxation year from their gross salary.
In April 2006, the Group began to match employee share purchases up to 50 per month.
These matching shares are effectively free shares awarded to the employee subject to their remaining in employment for one year.
Equity Incentive Plan 2008: Under this Scheme, eligible employees receive awards of ordinary shares, normally structured as rights to acquire shares at nil cost.
These awards are subject to forfeiture and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant, provided the employee continues to be employed within the Company.
Full details are included within the remuneration report.
Certain employees have been awarded cash-settled equivalents to these share-based awards.
The fair value of these awards is determined using the same methods and models used to value the equivalent equity-settled awards.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
a Share option plans Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their relative weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price per share Options per share Options At 1 January 742p 6,403,208 718p 7,155,955 Exercised 648p 2,064,537 511p 752,747 Lapsed 869p 658,839 At 31 December 772p 3,679,832 742p 6,403,208 Outstanding options immediately exercisable 772p 3,679,832 740p 6,366,341 The weighted average share price, at exercise date, of options exercised during the year was 9.50 2008: 8.89.
b Equity Compensation Plan Under the Equity Compensation Plan, rights over 3,697,433 2008: 5,309,627 ordinary and 47,046 2008: 35,031 non-voting ordinary shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2009.
The weighted average fair value of 5.82 2008: 7.87 per ordinary and 5.15 2008: 6.88 per non-voting ordinary share was calculated using the market value of the shares at the grant date, discounted for dividends forgone over the average holding period of the award.
The table below shows the estimated charges for awards issued under the Equity Compensation Plan to be expensed in future years making reasonable assumptions about forfeiture: m 2010 16.0 2011 7.7 2012 3.3 2013 0.7 2014 0.3 28.0 c Cash-settled share-based awards The Company issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based awards that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of the award to the employee on the date of exercise.
At 31 December 2009, the total carrying amount of liabilities arising from cash-settled share-based awards at the balance sheet date was 2.4 million 2008: 1.2 million.
The total intrinsic value at 31 December 2009 of liabilities for which the employees right to cash or other assets had vested by that date was 0.5 million 2008: 0.6 million.
d Share Incentive Plan The employee monthly share purchase plan is open to most employees and provides free shares from the Group to match the employee purchase up to a maximum of 50 per month.
Pursuant to these plans the Group purchased 44,303 ordinary shares in 2009 2008: 43,014, at a weighted average share price of 9.28 2008: 9.38.
A charge of 0.4 million 2008: 0.4 million will be expensed over a vesting period of one year.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 18:04 Page 113 113 36 Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments continued e Equity Incentive Plan Under the Equity Incentive Plan, the Group issued rights to 699,738 2008: 1,213,639 ordinary shares.
A charge of 2.8 million 2008: 0.4 million was recognised during the financial year.
The weighted average fair value was 12.29 2008: 7.91 per ordinary share, calculated as the market value on the date of grant.
The table below shows the estimated charges for awards issued under the Equity Incentive Plan to be expensed in future years making reasonable assumptions about forfeiture: m 2010 4.7 2011 4.5 2012 3.4 2013 1.7 2014 0.5 14.8 The Group recognised total expenses of 28.8 million 2008: 23.9 million arising from share-based payment transactions during the year of which 27.6 million 2008: 24.4 million were equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
37 Events after the balance sheet date No events requiring disclosure under IAS 10 occurred after the balance sheet date.
38 Related party transactions a Transactions between related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties, excluding compensation, are disclosed below: 2009 Amounts Amounts owed by owed to Revenues Expenses related parties related parties m m m m Associates Key management personnel 0.1 1.2 4.0 2008 Amounts Amounts owed by owed to Revenues Expenses related parties related parties m m m m Associates 2.0 0.7 Key management personnel 0.1 0.1 5.4 Transactions with related parties were made at market rates.
The amounts outstanding are secured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense for bad or doubtful debts has been recognised in the year in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
b Key management personnel compensation The remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 10.8 10.8 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.6 Other long-term benefits 4.8 1.8 Termination benefits 1.7 Share-based payments 6.3 2.8 22.4 17.7 The remuneration of key management personnel is determined having regard to the performance of individuals and market rates.
The remuneration policy is described in more detail in the remuneration report.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp107-114 File 08 08 03 2010 15:29 Page 114 114 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 38 Related party transactions continued c Collective investment vehicles: The Group manages a number of collective investment vehicles and by virtue of the investment management agreements in place between the Group and these vehicles they may be considered to be related parties.
The Group has a total net investment in collective investment vehicles of 70.9 million 2008: 109.2 million and received distributions of 0.3 million 2008: 0.2 million and investment management fees of 393.1 million 2008: 440.7 million.
The Group paid expenses of 2.2 million 2008: 1.3 million on behalf of collective investment vehicles.
39 Acquisitions The Group did not complete any acquisitions during the year.
At 31 December 2008, the initial accounting for two acquisitions of the Group had been determined only provisionally.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 115 115 Independent Auditors report to the members of Schroders plc  Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006  Inouropinion: ,   equity, , andtherelatednotes.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors  Matters on which we are required to report by exception onpage62,    , inouropinion: .
Thosestandards :or require  Standards forAuditors.
We  donot, ,  notmade:or    forouraudit.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements    .
 assurance  Richard Keers, Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, .
Thisincludes for and on behalf of  LLP anassessmentof:   London  3 March2010 :  bythedirectors:and .
Opinion on financial statements :  :   :and  CompaniesAct2006.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 116 116 Schroders plc balance sheet 31December2009 Notes 2009 2008 m m Non-current assets  45 2,585.0 2,585.0 Deferredtax 49 17.0 1.1  42 22.4 2,602.0 2,608.5 Current assets Financialassets 46 0.2  47 40.2 31.0  48 0.1 0.1 40.3 31.3 Total assets 2,642.3 2,639.8 Equity  54 288.8 286.7 Sharepremiumaccount 54 72.5 61.2 Otherreserves 56 1,342.0 1,332.8 Retainedprofits 57 728.5 846.0 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,431.8 2,526.7 Non-current liabilities  51 6.1 7.1  42 41.1 47.2 7.1 Current liabilities Provisions 50 0.6 3.2  51 162.7 102.8 163.3 106.0 Total equity and liabilities 2,642.3 2,639.8  3March2010.
Kevin Parry Directors } Bruno Schroder | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 117 117 Schroders plc statement of changes in equity  Share Share Other Retained capital premium reserves profits Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m At1January2009 286.7 61.2 1,332.8 846.0 2,526.7  70.3 70.3  23.1 23.1 Profitfortheyear 17.4 17.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 29.8 29.8 Sharesissued 2.1 11.3 13.4 Share-basedpayments 25.0 25.0 Dividends 84.9 84.9 Ownsharespurchased 18.6 18.6 Transfers 27.8 27.8 At 31 December 2009 288.8 72.5 1,342.0 728.5 2,431.8 Share Share Other Retained capital premium reserves profits Total  m m m m m At1January2008 294.5 58.1 1,350.8 855.0 2,558.4  30.6 30.6  5.1 5.1 Profitfortheyear 167.0 167.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 141.5 141.5 Sharesissued 0.8 3.1 3.9 Sharescancelled 8.6 8.5 71.8 71.9 Share-basedpayments 22.4 22.4 Dividends 86.7 86.7 Ownsharespurchased 40.5 40.5 Transfers 14.0 14.0 Shareissuecosts 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 286.7 61.2 1,332.8 846.0 2,526.7 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 118 118 Schroders plc cash flow statement  Notes 2009 2008 m m Operatingprofit 16.7 177.0 Adjustments for: Increase  3.9 9.1 Increase decrease  60.8 12.9 Decrease increase infinancialassets 0.2 0.1  6.8 10.5  25.0 22.4  Grouptaxrelief 5.9 9.2 Interestpaid 7.9 9.1 Interestreceived 0.1 1.8 Net cash from operating activities 90.1 186.9 Financing activities  71.8  13.4 3.9  18.6 40.5 Dividendspaid 84.9 86.7 Shareissuecosts 0.4 Net cash from financing activities 90.1 195.5 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 8.6  0.1 8.7  8.6 Closing cash and cash equivalents 48 0.1 0.1 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 18:35 Page 119 119 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 40 Significant accounting policies The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by that Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards which comprise standards and interpretations approved by either the International Accounting Standards Board or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or their predecessors, which had been approved by the European Commission as at 31 December 2009.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Act not to present its own income statement.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in note 1 Summary of accounting policies except as noted below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
41 Revenues and expenses other disclosures 2009 2008 m m Included in revenues: Net gains on financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 0.3 0.9 1 Net losses on foreign exchange 0.4 0.9 Included in administrative expenses: Salaries and other remuneration 8.9 7.5 Social security costs credits 2.0 0.7 Other pension costs see note 42 1.8 1.9 Employee benefits expense 12.7 8.7 1 Excludes foreign exchange on forward exchange contracts.
Such gains and losses are included in net gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
The average number of employees employed by the Company during the year was: Average 2009 2008 Number Number Full-time employees 5 4 The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 0.6 million 2008: 0.6 million.
Fees relating to further assurance services were nil in the year 2008: nil.
2009 2008 m m Included in net finance income: Bank interest receivable 1.4 Interest receivable on loans to subsidiaries not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 0.3 Other interest receivable on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 Interest receivable on similar income 0.1 1.8 Interest payable on loans from subsidiaries not at fair value through profit or loss 3.4 11.6 Interest payable and similar charges 3.4 11.6 42 Retirement benefit obligations The expense borne for pension costs represents the charge for the year in respect of the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Full details of the Scheme can be found in note 5.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 120 120 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts  43 Tax income expense  credit : a Analysis of tax credit charge in the year 2009 2008 m m Current tax:  3.1  11.3 5.3  grouprelief 0.1 2.4 Total current tax credit for the year 8.1 2.9 Deferred tax charge  4.1 2.9  0.3  0.1 Total tax credit charge for the year 4.0 0.2 b Analysis of credit to equity 2009 2008 m m  3.1 0.6  19.6 8.5  0.4 3.8  0.2 Tax credit reported in equity 23.1 5.1 c Factors affecting the tax credit charge for the year Thecurrenttax credit  2008:lower .
3.8 47.7 Effects of:  7.2 50.3  0.1 2.7  0.4  0.7 0.2  0.1 Total tax credit charge for the year 4.0 0.2 44 Dividends .
45 Investments in subsidiaries m  2,585.0 46 Current financial assets 2009 2008 m m  seenote52 0.2 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 18:56 Page 121 121 47 Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Trade and other receivables held at amortised cost: Amounts owed from subsidiaries see note 59 39.7 31.0 Other debtors 0.5 40.2 31.0 The carrying amount of the trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
As part of the Groups process to manage surplus cash effectively and earn maximum investment returns, surplus cash of 1.8 million 2008: 2.9 million was swept to a central bank account held by Schroder Financial Services Limited, a related party.
These balances are shown in trade and other receivables within amounts owed from subsidiaries.
48 Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.1 The book value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to their fair value.
49 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28 per cent.
reflecting the rate expected to be applicable at the time the net deferred tax asset is realised.
The movement on the net deferred tax asset account is as shown below: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 1.1 0.2 Income statement expense 4.1 3.1 Credit taken to equity 20.0 4.5 Effect of changes in UK tax rates income statement expense 0.1 At 31 December 2009 17.0 1.1 a Deferred tax assets Temporary differences Tax losses including carried bonuses and forward pension costs Total m m m At 1 January 2009 1.1 1.1 Income statement expense 4.1 4.1 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 20.0 20.0 At 31 December 2009 17.0 17.0 At 1 January 2008 1.5 1.5 Income statement expense 1.5 1.5 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2008 1.1 1.1 b Deferred tax liabilities 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 2009 1.7 Income statement expense 1.7 Credited to equity 4.5 Transfer to deferred tax assets 1.1 At 31 December 2009 All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities.
The net deferred tax provision at 31 December 2009 was an asset of 17.0 million 2008: 1.1 million.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 122 122 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts  50 Provisions Total m At1January2009 3.2 Provisionsutilised 2.2  0.4 At 31 December 2009 0.6  .
51 Trade and other payables 2009 2008 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total m m m m m m : Socialsecurity 0.5 1.8 2.3 0.6 3.5 4.1 Accruals 10.1 4.3 14.4 9.0 3.6 12.6  seenote59 152.1 152.1 93.2 93.2 162.7 6.1 168.8 102.8 7.1 109.9 .
: 2009 2008 m m Lessthanoneyear 162.7 102.8 12years 2.8 3.3 23years 2.7 3.8 3 4years 0.6 6.1 7.1 168.8 109.9 52 Derivative contracts 2009 2008 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m  1.9 3.1 0.2 1.9 3.1 0.2  , therefore, donotindicatethe .
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 18:36 Page 123 123 53 Financial instrument risk management The risk management processes of the Company are aligned with those of the Group as a whole.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are outlined in Risk management and internal control within the Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts and in note 27.
The Companys specific risk exposures are explained below.
Credit risk The Company has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
The companys counterparties are predominantly its subsidiaries and therefore there is minimal external credit risk exposure.
The Companys cash and cash equivalents is invested in accounts with well-rated UK banks.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
The Groups liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding, meet all obligations as they fall due and maintain the solvency.
The Company holds sufficient liquid funds to cover their normal course of business.
Outside the normal course of business the Company can request to borrow investment capital through intergroup loans to maintain sufficient liquidity.
The Group has investment capital which includes investments in fixed income and money market portfolios.
Liquidity in these portfolios is monitored on a regular basis.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Companys interest rate risk is limited.
Assets and liabilities attracting interest rates are cash balances and intercompany loans, both of which are at floating rate, therefore outright interest rate risk arises mainly from the decision to allow mismatch between cash flows.
The Company estimates that, as at the 31 December 2009, if the Bank of England interest rates had been 250 basis points higher nil basis points lower 2008: 200 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 3 million lower nil higher 2008: 1 million lower 1 million higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on intercompany loans and cash balances: other components of equity would be unaffected.
The following assumption was made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits: the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates.
The Companys exposure to foreign exchange risk has been hedged using currency forwards at detailed in note 52.
The Company has no exposure in this area.
Capital management The Companys policy is to have adequate capital for all activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
In particular, it should have sufficient capital to maintain sufficient liquid funds to meet peak working capital requirements.
Any surplus capital is loaned back to the Groups investment capital management entities.
54 Share capital Details of the Companys share capital can be found in note 29 to the accounts.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 124 124 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts  55 Own shares .
2009 2008 Number Number of shares Cost Market value ofshares Cost Marketvalue units m m units m m  2,312,308 21.3 27.6 3,984,409 34.3 27.8 Ownshares 7,627,034 75.7 99.9 8,247,911 84.9 70.8 9,939,342 97.0 127.5 12,232,320 119.2 98.6 56 Other reserves Own shares Capital held reserves Total m m m At1January2009 84.9 1,417.7 1,332.8 Ownsharespurchased 18.6 18.6 Transfersto  27.8 27.8 At 31 December 2009 75.7 1,417.7 1,342.0 Ownshares Capital held reserves Total m m m At1January2008 58.4 1,409.2 1,350.8 Sharescancelled 8.58.5 Ownsharespurchased 40.5 40.5 Transfersto  14.0 14.0 At31December2008 84.9 1,417.7 1,332.8 57 Retained profits reserve 2009 2008 m m At1January 846.0 855.0  70.3 30.6  23.1 5.1 Other comprehensive income 47.2 25.5 Profit for the year 17.4 167.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 29.8 141.5 Share-basedpayments 25.0 22.4 Dividends 84.9 86.7  71.8 Shareissuecosts 0.4  27.8 14.0 At 31 December 728.5 846.0 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 125 125 58 Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments  note36.
59 Related party transactions a Transactions between related parties , ,  , , aredisclosedbelow.
2009 Amounts Amounts Interest Interest owed by owed to receivable payable Expenses related parties related parties Revenues m m m m m  27.2 0.1 3.4 39.7 152.1  0.0 0.1 1.2 2.4 2008 Amounts Amounts Interest Interest owedby owedto receivable payable Expenses relatedparties relatedparties Revenues m m m m m  177.8 0.3 11.6 31.0 93.2  0.1 0.1 4.4 .
b Key management personnel compensation : 2009 2008 m m  6.7 5.7  0.1 0.1  3.0 1.0 Terminationbenefits 1.0 Share-basedpayments 4.0 1.3 13.8 9.1 .
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp115-127 File 09 08 03 2010 15:30 Page 126 126 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts  61 Subsidiary undertakings , ,  .
Germany England    NewFinanceCapitalLLP Schroder&Co.
Limited     Hong Kong SAR   HongKong Limited  Preferenceshares Limited NorthAmericaLimited Indonesia PTIndonesia 99.0percent.
p. A.  Japan   Japan Limited Argentina S.
A. Korea  Australia  Luxembourg  Luxembourg S. A. Preferenceshares  Luxembourg s. a. r. l. Brazil BrazilDTVMS.
A. Mexico , S. A. Bermuda dec.  SchroderFinance Bermuda Limited Netherlands  Bermuda Limited Schroders Bermuda Limited .
V. NewFinance Cayman Limited Singapore Channel Islands Schroder&Co.
Asia Limited BurnabyInsurance Guernsey Limited Schroder InvestmentManagement Singapore Limited GreshamManager CIP Limited SchroderInvestments Singapore PteLimited SchroderInvestments Guernsey Limited  Singapore Limited Preferenceshares  Guernsey Limited Switzerland Preferenceshares Schroder&CoBankAG Schroders C. I.
Limited  Switzerland AG Denmark Taiwan FondsmaeglerselskabA S .
Limited  Taiwan Limited United States of America NorthAmericaInc.
