Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty second annual general meeting of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on 5 February 2010 at 10:30am, for the purpose of transacting the following: As ordinary business: 1.
To receive and consider the directors report and statement of accounts for the year to 31 October 2009.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 October 2009.
To declare a final dividend of 5.15p per ordinary stock unit.
To re-elect Mr Douglas McDougall as a director.
To re-elect Mr Francis Finlay as a director.
To re-elect Mr Hamish Buchan as a director.
To elect Mr Russell Napier as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of ordinary stock units of 25p each or, subject to the passing of resolutions 10 and 11 in the notice convening the meeting at which this resolution is to be proposed, ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary stock units for cancellation, provided that: a. the maximum number of ordinary stock units hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the aggregate issued ordinary stock units on the date this resolution is passed: b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary stock unit shall be 25p: c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary stock unit shall be the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d. unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 April 2011, save that the company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary stock units under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary stock pursuant to any such contract.
To convert each of the companys issued stock units to an ordinary share of 25p.
To approve that: a. the articles of association be amended by deleting all of the provisions of the companys memorandum of association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as part of the companys articles of association: b. the articles of association of the company be amended by deleting all the provisions referred to in para 42 of schedule 2 of the Companies Act 2006 Commencement No 8, Transitional Provisions and Savings Order 2008 Statutory Instrument 2008 No.
2860 : and c. the draft regulations produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification initialled by the chairman of the meeting be adopted as the articles of association of the company in substitution for, and to the entire exclusion of, the existing articles of association of the company.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except numbers 9 and 11 which are special resolutions.
Steven Hay Secretary 10 December 2009 48 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Meeting continued 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the Notes meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of Arrangements have been made to enable all investors to receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting.
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the companys registrar is able to retrieve Registered stockholders whose names appear on the the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed companys register of members no later than 48 hours by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of appointed through CREST should be communicated to the the AGM or any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend, appointee through other means.
speak and vote or be represented at the meeting in respect of the ordinary stock units registered in their name at that time.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline sponsors or voting service provider s should note that shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not make available attend and vote at the meeting.
special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take and vote on his or her behalf.
If a stockholder wishes to or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, appoint more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service to exercise rights attaching to a different 1 nominal value, provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting or multiple of 1 in nominal value, of ordinary stock units service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary held by the stockholder.
A proxy need not be a member to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the of the company but must attend the AGM to represent you.
CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, Stockholders may not use any electronic address provided CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST either in this notice or any related documents, including the sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, proxy form, to communicate with the company for any to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical purpose other than those expressly stated.
limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure set out in The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Proxy forms must in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the be lodged with the companys registrar not less than 48 hours Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. excluding non-working days before the meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking company who appoints a person other than the chairman as of the poll.
Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at 4 December 2009, CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies the total number of voting rights exercisable at the meeting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service was 31,293,729. may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the website www.
com Stockholders may require the company to publish, on its CREST.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored website, without payment, a statement, which is also passed members and those CREST members who have appointed to the auditors, setting out any matter relating to the audit of a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST the companys accounts, including the auditors report and the sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either i members representing at least In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using 5% of the total voting rights of the company or ii at least 100 the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST members who have a relevant right to vote and hold stock in message a CREST Proxy instruction must be properly the company on which there has been paid up an average sum authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information writing and must state the members full name and address required for such instruction, as described in the CREST and be sent to the companys registered office.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction Information regarding the meeting including the information given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be required by section 311 of the Companies Act 2006 is available valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the companys from www.
co. uk registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC no later than Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 49 Notice of Meeting continued Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b T he answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c It is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of the articles of association of the company as proposed to be adopted with effect from the passing of resolution 11 will be available for inspection at Royal London House, 22-25 Finsbury Square, London E2A 1DX and at the registered office of the company from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and on the date of the Annual General Meeting at the Annual General Meeting 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
The directors terms of appointment letters are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the annual general meeting until the conclusion thereof.
No director has any contract of service with the company.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, SIPP and ISA investors are welcome to attend and may vote on a poll by completing the Form of Direction enclosed with this report.
This must be returned to the companys registrar no later than 10.30am on 29 January 2010.
Other investors whose holdings are in nominee names and who wish to attend and vote are advised to contact their nominee before 29 January 2010.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 11 February 2010 to stockholders registered at the close of business on 15 January 2010.
This report is sent to the address at present registered for communications.
Any change of address should be notified to the companys registrar or the savings scheme administrator.
The register of directors interests maintained by the company will be available for inspection at the meeting together with copies of directors appointment letters.
50 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009
