Investor Information The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, Alternatively, the full 10,200 can be invested in a stocks and provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products shares ISA with one provider.
which enable investors to access SIT stock.
These higher limits will apply to all eligible ISA investors with effect from 6 April 2010.
How to Invest You can buy SIT stock using the investment products Transfers from cash ISAs into stocks and shares ISAs are outlined below.
SIT stock can also be bought directly on permitted and do not count against the current years subscription.
Your bank, lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser may be able to help Investment in ISAs continues to be free from any capital gains with this.
Higher rate tax payers do not have to pay any additional tax on the dividend, nor does it need to be included in a tax return.
STOCKPLAN SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most The SIT ISA is a stocks and shares ISA.
Extremely flexible, it allows you to invest regularly minimum investment 25 per month and or with a The SIT SIPP lump sum minimum investment 250.
There is no maximum The SIT SIPP accepts what is known as protected rights money.
investment limit and you can stop and start investing at any time.
Previously, the only option for most individuals who had built up STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start a protected rights fund through contracting out of SERPs or the SITs Investing for Children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN State Second Pension S2P into a personal pension was to hold scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility it in a traditional style personal pension or stakeholder plan.
and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying SIT Schemes Administrator Telephone Number Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child There is one telephone number for the administration of the to help build savings for the future.
SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes.
This is the number for our scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, The SIT ISA and it should be used by holders of our STOCKPLAN, This is one of the lowest-charging stocks and shares ISAs on STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA schemes for: offer.
There is no initial plan charge, other than stamp duty and account queries dealing spread, nor are there closure or selling charges.
The requests for valuations annual management fee of 0.6% of the value of the investment information about your scheme is capped at 30 VAT regardless of how much your SIT ISA instructing a sale investment grows or how many years ISA allowances you have making an investment using a debit card invested with SIT.
changing the amount of your monthly investment giving change of address details The SIT SIPP help with accessing STOCKPLAN and ISA information online This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice of investments The number is: 0845 850 0181. available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and Dividends objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2009: pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers Record Payment Dividends Amount XD date date date pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning spouse or partner.
Final 2008 5.05p 7 January 9 January 5 February 2009 2009 2009 Update on Tax-Efficient Investing Interim 2009 4.45p 10 June 12 June 17 July ISAs 2009 2009 2009 The overall ISA annual investment limit is currently 7,200 Final 2009 5.15p 13 January 15 January 11 February up to 3,600 in a cash ISA and the balance, or full amount, 2010 2010 2010 in a stocks and shares ISA.
On 6 October 2009, the ISA subscription limit increased to The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic 10,200 for anyone eligible to invest in an ISA who was born reinvestment of dividends.
However, they also allow for dividends on or before 5 April 1960 i. e. who will be aged 50 or over during to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN and ISA holders the current tax year.
Up to 5,100 of the new ISA allowance can should contact the scheme administrator, HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 be saved in a cash ISA with one provider.
The remainder of the if they would like to change their dividend arrangements.
10,200 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with either the same or another provider.
Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Investor Information continued Conversely, name on register stockholders investors whose Electronic Communications names are on our stock register and who hold their stock in If you are a name on register stockholder i. e. not in the certificated form where dividends are automatically paid as STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers nominee income, can have their dividends reinvested by joining our you may choose to receive our interim and annual reports and Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details are available other stockholder communications electronically instead of in from Computershare Investor Services, our Registrar, paper form.
All you need to do to register is to visit the link in the on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations section investor relations section on our website, www.
co. uk and on our website, www.
co. uk provide your email details.
You will then be advised by email when an electronic communication is available to be accessed.
Monitoring Your Investment SITs stock price, together with performance information and Stockholders Meetings product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk Investors whose names appear on the main stock register i. e. not in one of our schemes, nor in a brokers nominee The price of ordinary stock units is published daily in most are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and other general quality newspapers and is also available on Ceefax and Teletext, meetings.
Notices of meetings and proxy cards are sent to listed as Scot.
In addition, a number of financial websites, their registered addresses.
such as the FT website, www.
ft. com and Trustnet Financial Express, www.
com carry stock price information.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, SIPP and ISA investors are entitled to attend the AGM and other general SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its website.
meetings and vote on a poll by completing and returning the An interim report is issued in June of each year, with the annual form of direction enclosed with this report.
report being distributed to all investors in late December.
The AGM will be held at the Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors Edinburgh on 5 February 2010 at 10.30am.
receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
Electronic Voting Name on register stockholders in their own right i. e. not in one Accessing Your Account Online of our schemes, nor in a brokers nominee are able to submit proxy votes electronically for our AGM.
Please follow the ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated instructions on your proxy card.
scheme investors The above scheme investors may view their accounts Personal Taxation online by registering with halifax-online.
This can be accessed Income Tax through the links in the various product sections on our website, www.
co. uk online Currently, all UK dividends are paid to stockholders net of a tax Please note you will need your Share Dealing Personal Reference credit of 10%.
Changes to the tax regime mean that from April Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not have this, please 1999 non-tax payers are no longer able to reclaim the tax credit.
contact SITs scheme administrator, HSDL, on 0845 850 0181.
Non-ISA stockholders liable to higher rates of tax will be SIPP investors assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and sell Capital Gains Tax CGT stock and access their account online, by visiting Investment trusts currently pay no CGT on gains made within www.
co. uk online the portfolio.
When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 10,100 pa of Name on register stockholders such gains from all sources is exempt.
Investors who hold ordinary stock in their own name on SITs stock register can check their holdings on our Registrars For investors who purchased stock prior to 31 March 1982 website, www.
co. uk or through the link in the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
Please note that to access this facility, investors will need to Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT quote the reference number shown on their stock certificate.
Moreover, by registering for the Investors Centre facility ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
on Computershares website, investors can view details of all their holdings for which Computershare is Registrar, Please remember that we are unable to offer individual as well as access additional facilities and documentation.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
co. uk for further information.
46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Investor Information continued SIT Savings Limited is the plan manager of STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning The capital value of stock units and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations and cannot be guaranteed.
That means you may not get back the amount you originally invested.
Past performance may not be repeated and is no indicator of future performance.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns for stockholders.
However, if markets fall, these borrowings will magnify any losses.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Taxation levels, bases and reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual circumstances.
Further Information For further information and brochures on any SIT products please visit our website, www.
co. uk or contact: SIT Investor Relations SIT Savings Limited Freepost EH882 Edinburgh EH2 0BR Brochure Request Line: 0800 42 44 22 Fax: 0131 226 3663 Email: info@sit.
co. uk Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 47
