Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in e Finance Costs paragraphs a to i below.
All have been applied consistently Interest payable has been charged one-half to revenue reserve throughout the current and the preceding year: and one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of long-term future returns from the companys a Basis of Accounting investments 2008: same.
Tax relief applicable to those The financial statements are prepared on a going concern charges is allocated between revenue and capital using basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include the marginal basis as described in para 66 of the SORP.
the revaluation of investments at fair value, and in accordance The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured bonds with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The due 2030 have been included in the financing costs of the companys accounting policies comply with the AIC Statement issue which are being written off over the life of the bonds.
of Recommended Practice SORP issued in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and f Taxation Venture Capital Trusts.
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered.
b Valuation of Investments Listed investments are valued at fair value through profit or Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which loss.
Fair value is the closing bid or last traded price according result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay to the recognised convention of the markets on which they are more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Where trading in the securities of an investee company differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and is suspended, the investment is valued at the boards estimate expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from of its net realisable value.
Where appropriate the directors those in which they are included in the financial statements.
have adopted the guidelines issued by the International Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Private Equity and Venture Capital Association for the valuation regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Heritable property is included at a Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Depreciation is not charged on heritable company has no deferred tax asset or liability.
property as it is not material.
g Foreign Currency Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded permanent impairments in the value of investments and in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of unrealised surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of the transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange investments are taken to capital reserve as explained in a related forward contract.
Assets and liabilities denominated in note h below.
in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital c Income reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
account on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into h Capital Reserve account when the companys right to receive payment is The following are accounted for in this reserve: established.
gains and losses on the realisation of investments realised exchange differences of a capital nature Fixed interest and other returns on non-equity securities are realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect to hedge an exposure of a capital nature the effective yield on the securities.
The fixed return on a the funding of ordinary stock repurchases debt security is recognised on a time apportionment basis expenses, interest and tax charged to capital.
so as to reflect the effective yield on the debt security.
increases and decreases in the valuation of investments Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form of held at the year end additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken the shares received over the amount of the cash is recognised to hedge an exposure of a capital nature in capital reserves.
increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension fund surplus or deficit.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
i Pensions Information on the companys pension scheme is contained Eligible investment expenses have been charged one-half in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 32. to revenue reserve and one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of the nature of long-term future returns from the companys investments 2008: same.
Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are treated as part of the cost, or deducted from the sales proceeds of the investment.
30 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009
