NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies The financial statements for the year to 31 March 2009 have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out below.
These are unchanged from last year and have been applied consistently.
a Basis of Accounting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modi ed to include the revaluation of xed asset investments, and on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be sterling as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in the UK and the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued in 2003, revised 2005.
In order to re ect better the activities of the trust and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the pro t and loss account between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented in the Income Statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
b Investments Purchases and sales of investments are accounted for on a trade date basis.
All investments are designated as fair value through pro t or loss upon initial recognition.
The fair value of listed investments is bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded prices issued by the London Stock Exchange.
Listed investments include Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued at closing price and are classi ed for valuation purposes according to the principal geographical area of the underlying holdings.
The fair value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, determined by the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, stockbroker valuations, net asset values and other information, as appropriate.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments are considered to be realised to the extent that they are readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, at the balance sheet date.
Fair value gains on unlisted investments are not considered to be readily convertible to cash and are therefore treated as unrealised.
The treatment of listed investments is dependent upon the individual circumstances of each holding.
c Income i Income from equity investments is brought into account on the date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
ii Interest from xed interest securities is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
iii Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
iv Unfranked investment income includes the taxes deducted at source.
v Interest receivable on deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of the cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement except as follows: where they relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of an investment transaction costs, in which case they are recognised as capital: and where they are connected with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of investments, in which case they are charged 50:50 to the revenue account and realised capital reserve.
e Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at the cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued finance costs attributable to the stepped interest debentures.
The finance costs of such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to the revenue column of the Income Statement and realised capital reserve at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
f Taxation The tax effect of different items of income and expenditure is allocated between revenue and capital on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, under the marginal method, using the Companys effective tax rate for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, calculated at the current tax rate relevant to the bene t or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it will be more likely than not that there will be taxable pro ts from which underlying timing differences can be deducted.
g Foreign Currencies Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the time of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve as appropriate.
h Capital Reserves i Capital Reserve Realised: Gains and losses on realisation of investments, changes in fair value of instruments which are readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, and realised exchange differences of a capital nature are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares for cancellation are also funded from this reserve.
50% of management fees and finance costs are allocated to the realised capital reserve in accordance with the Companys objective of combining capital and income growth.
ii Capital Reserve Unrealised: Changes in fair value of investments that are not readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, and the amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value are dealt with in this reserve.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35
