FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information How to Invest Share Register Enquiries The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share register They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries regarding shares asking a professional adviser to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford registered in your own name, please contact the Registrars on savings vehicles see page 50.
If you are interested in investing 0870 707 1300. directly in Scottish Mortgage, you can do so online.
There are a This helpline also offers an automated selfservice functionality number of companies offering real time online dealing services available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: nd out more by visiting the investment trust pages at hear the latest share price: www.
con rm your current share holding balance: Sources of Further Information on the Company con rm your payment history: and The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can also be found on the Scottish Mortgage page of the Baillie order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock Gifford website at www.
com, Trustnet at Transfer forms.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company They also offer a free, secure share management website service factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and which allows you to: are updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on request.
view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares: AIC calculate the total market price of each shareholding: Scottish Mortgage was one of the founding members of The Association of Investment Companies in 1932.
The AICs website view price histories and trading graphs: www.
co. uk contains detailed information about investment update bank mandates and change address details: and trusts, such as factsheets and statistics on the investment trust industry.
The AIC also hold a series of private investor roadshows throughout the year at which Baillie Gifford will be in attendance.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder Key Dates Reference Number and Company Code this information can be Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect found on the last dividend voucher or your share certi cate.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of November and a final dividend is paid in early July.
The AGM is Dividend Reinvestment Plan normally held in late June or early July.
Computershare operate a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which can be used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your dividend via Capital Gains Tax cheque or into your bank account.
For further information log in to For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value www-uk.
com investor and follow the instructions adjusted for the bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share or telephone 0870 707 1694. in the Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Analysis of Shareholders At 31 March 2009 At 31 March 2008 Number of Number of shares held % shares held % Institutions 106,515,744 39.2 113,932,814 41.6 Intermediaries 110,037,280 40.4 106,716,403 39.0 Individuals 30,286,931 11.1 31,294,080 11.4 Baillie Gifford Share Plans ISA 20,926,116 7.7 19,454,203 7.1 Marketmakers 4,323,826 1.6 2,592,397 0.9 272,089,897 100.0 273,989,897 100.0 number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed Electronic Communications and Proxy Voting for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to receive taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by communications from the Company, and vote, in electronic format.
the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve This method reduces costs, is environmentally friendly and, for many, the message.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored is convenient too.
The paragraphs below explain how you can use members should contact their CREST sponsors for assistance with these services.
For further information on CREST Electronic Communications If you would like to take advantage procedures, limitations and systems timings, please refer to the CREST of this service, please visit our Registrars website at Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment www-uk.
You will sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a need your shareholder reference number which is on your share of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001.
Computershare certi cate and tax voucher to hand.
If you then agree to the Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial terms and conditions, in future, on the day that documents are Services Authority.
sent to shareholders by post, you will receive an e-mail providing If you have any questions about these services please contact the website address link to the documents.
After you register, Computershare on 0870 707 1300. paper documents will be available on request.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision Electronic Proxy Voting You can also return proxies electronically of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, at www.
If you have registered for this should be treated as information only.
electronic communications you will be issued a PIN number to use when returning proxies to the secure Registrar website.
Scottish Mortgage is an investment trust.
Investment You do not need to register for electronic communications to trusts offer investors the following: use electronic proxy voting, paper proxy forms will contain Participation in a diversi ed portfolio of shares.
a PIN number to allow you to return proxies electronically.
Constant supervision by experienced professional managers.
CREST Proxy Voting The Company is free from capital gains tax on capital pro ts If you are a user of the CREST system including a CREST Personal realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for Member, you may appoint one or more proxies or give an capital gains tax on pro ts when selling their investment.
instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message These accounts have been approved by the Directors of Scottish transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a proxy Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49
