COST-EFFECTIVE WAYS TO BUY AND HOLD SHARES IN SCOTTISH MORTGAGE A GUIDE TO THE INVESTMENT TRUST ISA & SHARE PLAN Investment trust application pack Press advertisement for The Share Plan and ISA brochure available Scottish Mortgage.
com Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Baillie Gifford & Co offers a number of plans that enable you to buy and No annual wrapper charge hold shares of the Trust cost-ef ciently.
Purchases and sales are normally The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the child subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty of 0.5% Flexible investment options: lump sum from 250 or monthly saving is payable on purchases.
from just 30 A withdrawal charge of just 22 The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan No initial charge Further Information No annual wrapper charge If you would like more information on any of the plans described, please Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
Contact details are given below.
Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 No maximum investment limits Literature in Alternative Formats Stop and start saving at any time with no charge If you require literature in alternative formats, such as large print or on Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday audio tape, please contact the Client Relations Team.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Client Relations Team Contact Details The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA Telephone: 0800 027 0133 Tax-ef cient investment E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com No set-up charge Fax: 0131 275 3955 Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT Client Relations Team Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a maximum of Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited 7,200 each year Calton Square Save monthly from 100 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh A withdrawal charge of just 22 EH1 3AN ISA Transfers www.
com Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Baillie Your call may be recorded.
Gifford ISA Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability Minimum transfer value 2,000 of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan For Scottish Mortgage speci c queries, please use the following contact An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to invest details: for a child E-mail: scottishmortgage@bailliegifford.
com No initial charge 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2009
