$ Article in Trust magazine to mark Scottish Mortgages centenary year.
A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com Communicating with Shareholders If you are interested in investing directly in Scottish Mortgage, you can Promoting Scottish Mortgage do so online.
There are a number of companies offering real time online Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Scottish dealing services nd out more by visiting our investment trust pages at Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct investors.
supports the promotion of the plans described on the previous page in order to bring the merits of Scottish Mortgage to as wide an audience as possible.
Online Management Service You can also open and manage your Share Plan and or ISA online, through Trust Magazine our secure Online Management Service OMS which can be accessed Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published through the Baillie Gifford website.
OMS enables you to apply for, open and twice a year.
It provides an insight to our investment approach by including administer a Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA interviews with our fund managers, as well as containing investment trust online.
As well as being able to view the details of your plan online, the news, investment features and articles about the trusts managed by Baillie service also allows you to: Gifford, including Scottish Mortgage.
Trust plays an important role in helping get current valuations: to explain our products so that readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team make lump sum investments: or visit www.
co. uk switch between investment trusts except where there is more than one All articles are available to read on screen and can now also be holder : downloaded in PDF format.
set up a direct debit to make regular investments: and Guide to Investment Trusts update certain personal details.
Baillie Gifford has produced a Guide to Investment Trusts that is designed to Award Winners explain how trusts work and to demystify some of the terms used.
They have also produced a guide explaining the various ways you can save or invest For the second year in a row, Scottish Mortgage was successful in the for a child, including how you can use investment trusts and how they What Investment Awards.
Selected by a panel of industry experts, Scottish compare to other savings and investment options.
A new guide named Mortgage won the Generalist Investment Trust of the Year award.
Investing for retirement is now also available.
If you would like a copy, Baillie Gifford & Co was the Winner of the Premier Group Award in the please contact the Client Relations Team.
Money Observer Investment Trust Awards 2008.
Baillie Gifford also picked up a Highly Commended for Best Global Trust award for Scottish Mortgage.
Scottish Mortgage on the Web Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on the Managers website Suggestions and Questions at www.
In the Investment Trust section you will Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved nd full details of the Trust, including a monthly commentary, recent portfolio are welcomed, so please do contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team information and performance gures.
and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer You can also nd a brief history of the Trust, an explanation of the effects of any questions you may have, either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans gearing and a exible performance reporting tool.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51
