ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE C A L L L T I H O G E C ON LT A A R N C L P R O A D NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Merchants Hall, 22 Hanover Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EP on Thursday, 25 June 2009 at 4.00pm.
Omni If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend Cinema JOHN the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
LEWIS Baillie Gifford may record your call.
ST. JAMES BUS CENTRE STATION BALMORAL HOTEL Access to Waverley Train Station on foot EDINBURGH WAVERLEY STATION Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one-hundredth Annual General a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby authorised Meeting of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be held to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued ordinary within The Hall at The Merchants Hall, 22 Hanover Street, share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: Edinburgh EH2 2EP on Thursday, 25 June 2009 at 4.00pm b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be for the following purposes: 25p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be Ordinary Business paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to the higher of To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions as a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations Ordinary Resolutions: as derived from the Daily Of cial List of the London Stock 1.
To receive and adopt the Accounts of the Company for the year Exchange for the Shares for the 5 business days immediately to 31 March 2009 with the Reports of the Directors and of the preceding the date of purchase and b the higher of the Independent Auditors thereon.
price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the 31 March 2009.
Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy-back 3.
programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments No 2273 2003 : and 4.
To elect Professor JA Kay as a Director.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the 5.
To elect Ms FC McBain as a Director.
Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred 6.
To re-elect Sir Donald MacKay as a Director shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, save that the Company 7.
To re-elect Lord Strathclyde as a Director.
may, prior to the expiry of such authority, enter into a contract 8.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditors.
or contracts to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after 9.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Independent Auditors.
Shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions as 11.
That, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Special Resolutions: generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to sell relevant shares as fide ned in sections 10.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under section 166 94 2 to 94 3A and section 94 5 of the Act in the Company of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to if, immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company as treasury shares as fide ned in section 162A 3 of the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Act treasury shares for cash as fide ned in section 162D 2 of Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section the Act as if subsection 1 of section 89 of the Act did not apply 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital to any such sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: of the Company either for retention as treasury shares for future sale or cancellation Shares, provided that: SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 O E O Q U E E N S T R E E T L GEORGE STREET GEORGE STREET ROSE STREET ROSE STREET LANE R E A 8 P R I N C E S S T R E E T WAT Merchants Hall L LEITH WALK E E N I S I D E T H S T R E E T HANOVER STREET ST ANDREW SQUARE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING a the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares of 25p each in the Company Shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all such shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective number of Shares held or deemed or notionally held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or to deal with problems under the laws, or requirements of, any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the sale of treasury shares other than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution of up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,797,872 being 10% of the Companys issued Share capital as at 13 May 2009: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require treasury shares to be sold after the expiry of such power, and the Directors of the Company may sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By order of the Board Baillie Gifford & Co Managers and Secretaries 21 May 2009 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notes has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, 1 A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is entitled from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, vote on his her poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A Form of to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders Proxy for the use of members is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered with the Registrar of the Company not later than 48 hours before the time Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives set for the meeting.
Any Power of Attorney or any other authority under www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance which the proxy is signed or a duly certi ed copy of such power of includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being authority must be included with the proxy form.
The appointment of a appointed as described in i above.
proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are in person.
held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to 2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 2001, the Company speci es that only those shareholders entered on 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated the Register of Members of the Company as at the close of business on persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered 23 June 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person entries on the Register of Members after the close of business on 23 June holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be 6 As at 13 May 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at document, the Company had 271,914,897 ordinary shares excluding the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the treasury shares in issue with a total of 271,914,897 voting rights.
Articles of Association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
7 Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Company who 3 Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete and return disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
8 No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
4 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, 9 The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate its website, a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate Companys accounts, including the Auditors Report and the conduct of representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the the audit, which they intend to raise at the next meeting of the Company.
directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder The Company will be required to do so once it has received such at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the total voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 members who have a withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100. corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Independent Auditors Chairman: Sir Donald MacKay Computershare Investor The Bank of Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc MA FRSE FRSGS Services PLC New York Mellon 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Saltire Court PO Box 82 Yard 20 Castle Terrace GA Ball FCA The Pavilions London Edinburgh Dr MM Gray OBE DL Bridgwater Road EC2R 7AS EH1 2EG Professor JA Kay Bristol BS99 6ZZ FC McBain MA Hons ACA Tel: 0870 707 1300 WG McQueen BSc CA FCIBS JPHS Scott FCII FSI www.
com The Rt Hon Lord Strathclyde PC Company registration No.
7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Of ce Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
