Section 04 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc We have audited the fi financial statements of Carillion plc for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 56 to 121.
Companies Act 2006 The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In our opinion: preparation of the Group fi financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the EU.
The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the preparation of the parent company fi financial statements is Act 2006: and applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally the information given in the Directors Report for the fi financial Accepted Accounting Practice.
year for which the fi financial statements are prepared is consistent with the fi financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: companys members those matters we are required to state to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest if, in our opinion: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been we have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company fi financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement agreement with the accounting records and returns: or set out on page 54, the Directors are responsible for the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specifi ed by law preparation of the fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that are not made: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the we have not received all the information and explanations we fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and require for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going Scope of the audit of the fi financial statements concern: and A description of the scope of an audit of fi financial statements is the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the provided on the APBs web-site at www.
companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specifi ed for our review.
Opinion on fi financial statements In our opinion: the fi financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profi t for the year D K Turner then ended: Senior Statutory Auditor the Group fi financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor the parent company fi financial statements have been properly Chartered Accountants prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting One Snowhill Practice: Snow Hill Queensway the fi financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Birmingham the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards B4 6GH the Group fi financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
3 March 2010 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55
