Glossary 95 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Early-stage Distributions Seed: Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the partnership.
Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, perhaps Divestments or realisations or exits involving production of prototypes and additional research, prior to Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public Offering bringing a product to market.
Start-up: Draw downs calls Financing provided to companies for the use in product development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in the process of being set up or may Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance investments.
have been in business for a short time, but have not sold their product Funds are drawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
Fund of funds Other early-stage: Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing in other private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby increase their Financing provided to companies that have completed the product development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial level of diversification.
They will not yet be generating profit.
Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage the level of a companys borrowings as a percentage of shareholder funds.
Late-stage Expansion financing: Hurdle rate Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company which Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
It allows investors to get preferential access to the profits of the partnership.
In the absence is breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to finance increased production capacity, market or product development and or of reaching the hurdle return, general partners will not receive a share of the provide additional working capital.
Capital provided for turnaround profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the private equity situations is also included in this category.
fund needs to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits are shared according to the carried interest arrangement.
Management Buy-Out MBO : Limited partnership Funds provided to enable current operating management and investors to acquire an existing business.
Most private equity firms structure their funds as limited partnerships.
Investors represent the limited partners and private equity managers the Management Buy-In MBI : general partners.
Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers from outside Realisation the Company to buy into the Company.
The sale of an investment.
Follow-on investment Secondary market A company which has previously received private equity.
The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their stakes Secondary purchase in a private equity partnership before it is wound up.
Purchase of existing shares in a company from another private equity firm, Trade sale or from other shareholders.
Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
Public to private Turnaround Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock exchange with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking it private.
A loss-making company which can be successfully transformed into a profit maker.
General Terms Further information on our website Carried interest carry.
com Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a private equity funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital Capital committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one has to deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost of operation of a fund.
