Company summary 92 The Company SVG Capital plc is a private equity investor and fund management business listed on the London Stock Exchange.
SVG Capital plc carries on business as an investment trust.
Investment trust companies are able to switch investments without liability for capital gains tax.
This, together with the advantages of professional management and spread of risk, makes investment trusts a valuable investment medium.
The Company carries on business as an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the Company conducts itself with a view to continuing as an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the United Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as amended.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Information for shareholders The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SVI.
The price of the shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times, the Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The net asset value is calculated at 30 June and 31 December each year following an extensive valuation procedure.
Due to the nature of the Companys investments, it is not practical to publish the net asset value on a more frequent basis.
A factsheet containing information including the diversification of the portfolio and the Companys largest investments is published quarterly and is available on request from the Company Secretary.
Registrar services Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to registered share holdings, including a change of address or other amendment should be directed to Equiniti Registrars at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The helpline telephone number of Equiniti Registrars is 0871 384 2776 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers charges may vary.
