Performance condition footnotes: 1 Awards subject to stretching growth targets in the gross value of SVG Advisers Limited over three financial years of the Company ending 31 December 2009.
The targets were not met and the awards have lapsed.
2 Awards subject to performance conditions based on growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share of the Company NAV over four financial years ending 31 December 2010.
Specifically, 25% and 100% of an award will vest or become capable of exercise if average annual NAV growth over the performance period is equal to 10% and equal to or greater than 18% respectively.
For performance between these two points awards will vest on a straight-line basis.
3 Awards subject to stretching growth targets in the gross value of SVG Advisers Limited over three financial years of the Company ending 31 December 2010.
4 Awards subject to performance conditions based on growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share of the Company NAV over four financial years ending 31 December 2011.
5 Awards subject to performance conditions based on growth in Total Shareholder Return TSR over three financial years ending 13 October 2012.
6 Awards subject to performance conditions based on growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share of the Company NAV over four financial years ending 31 December 2011.
The price of an ordinary share on 13 October 2009, when awards were granted under the PSP, was 126.2p.
The price of an ordinary share on 13 March 2008 and 25 September 2008, when awards were granted under the PSP, was 708.5p and 579.0p, respectively.
The fair value of equity-settled performance shares granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the performance shares were granted.
23 Reserve accounts The purpose of the various reserve accounts used by the Group is set out below.
Share premium account The net proceeds of share issues in excess of the nominal value of such shares are credited to the share premium account.
Capital redemption reserve This reserve represents the nominal amount of the Companys own shares that have been purchased for cancellation.
The amounts included in this reserve represent transfers from the Companys share capital account.
Share purchase reserve On 24 June 1998, the Company obtained permission from the High Court to cancel its share premium account in existence at that date and set up a new distributable reserve, the share purchase reserve, against which the cost of purchasing the Companys own shares for cancellation can be debited.
Share option reserve The Groups share option reserve represents the fair value amounts in respect of options issued that have been charged through the income statements of SVG Advisers Limited and SVG Advisers Inc, as well as related deferred tax.
The Companys share option reserve represents the corresponding amount included in SVG Capitals accounts as a contribution to subsidiaries note 17.
