Notes to the accounts 54 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company and the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2005 is consistent with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared on a basis compliant with the SORP.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors consider that for the foreseeable future the Group will continue to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Revised Amendments to IFRS 2 i clarified the definition of vesting conditions and prescribed the treatment for an award that is cancelled and ii clarified the scope and accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
The Group adopted these amendments as of 1 January 2009.
It did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 3 introduced significant changes in the accounting for business combinations.
Changes affect the valuation of non-controlling interests, accounting for transaction costs, initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent consideration and business combinations achieved in stages.
IAS 27 Amended requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore not give rise to goodwill or a gain or loss.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Amendments to IFRS 7 were issued by the IASB in March 2009 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments to IFRS 7 require fair value measurements to be disclosed by the source of inputs, using a three-level hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 In addition, the amendment revises the specific minimum liquidity risk disclosures including: the contractual maturity of non-derivative and derivative financial liabilities, and a description of how this risk is managed.
Comparative information has not been restated or provided as permitted by the transitional provisions of the amendment.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are slightly more detailed than those previously identified.
IFRS 8 disclosures are shown in note 3, including the related revised comparative information.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
The Group has also adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2009: IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 9 Remeasurement of Embedded Derivatives Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 Adopting these changes did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
55 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 1 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Financial statements of all Group companies are prepared for the same reporting period.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Presentation of income statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the Companys contractual right to the cash flow from the asset expires or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the contractual obligation is discharged, with gains and losses recognised in the income account.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value.
As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income or capital gains, such financial assets are designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Incidental costs on acquisition of such assets are expensed.
Financial assets designated as fair value through profit or loss are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which for investment funds is at their net asset value based on the fair value of the underlying investments.
Quoted instruments are valued at either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
Fair value is the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the Reporting Date.
Gains and losses arising from investments, designated as investments held at fair value through profit or loss, are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on fair value through profit or loss investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its risk associated with interest rate fluctuations and foreign exchange movements.
It is not the Groups policy to trade in derivative instruments.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
Fair value is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Cash flow hedges For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the unrealised gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in equity and recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to the income statement.
Notes to the accounts continued 56 1 Accounting policies continued A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if all of the following conditions are met.
at the inception of the hedge there is formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship and the entitys risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
the hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistently with the originally documented risk management strategy for that particular hedging relationship.
for cash flow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit or loss.
the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrument can be reliably measured.
the hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined actually to have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was designated.
Current financial assets Financial assets purchased with a view to subsequent transfer or resale warehoused investments are carried at fair value and included in current assets.
Investments in subsidiaries In its separate financial statements the Company recognises its investment in subsidiaries at cost, unless they are investment vehicles, in which case they are included at fair value.
Investments in associates In accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Associates, the standard does not apply to investments held in associates by private equity organisations that are designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Such investments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they occur.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Bank borrowings and loan notes Interest-bearing bank loans and loan notes issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Convertible loan notes Convertible loan notes are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible loan notes and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity.
Issue costs are allocated proportionately to the liability and equity components.
The carrying amount of the liability component is subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled share-based payments with employees of the Group are measured at fair value at the date of grant and recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate valuation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the consolidated income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised in the Companys income statement as there are no equity instruments issued in consideration for the provision of employee services to the Company.
The cost of equity awards to employees of subsidiaries is added to the Companys investment in subsidiaries.
57 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided in the normal course of business.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Interest income is classified within operating activities in the cash flow statement.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established and is classified within operating activities in the cash flow statement.
Investment management and advisory fees are accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
The Groups revenue and realised capital gains are derived primarily from distributions in respect of its holdings in fund investments.
Realised gains on capital distributions which arise from the realisation of investments within the funds are credited to the income statement and taken to the capital reserve.
Income distributions are credited to the income statement and taken to the revenue reserve.
Management and advisory fee income are accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The costs relating to defined benefit schemes are accounted for in the same way as for defined contribution schemes where the Group is unable to identify its share of the underlying performance and financial position of the plan with sufficient reliability for accounting purposes.
Such situations arise where the contributions payable by the Group are set in terms of the scheme as a whole and, as such, there is no consistent and reliable basis for allocating the Groups obligations, plan assets, or costs.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the Company is pounds sterling.
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement and are allocated either to revenue or capital, as appropriate.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups capital reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Notes to the accounts continued 58 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost, including direct acquisition costs, less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less estimated residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Telecommunications and office equipment 10% 20% Leasehold improvements 10% Computer equipment 20% 33% The Group does not ordinarily provide for depreciation against art.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment purposes.
Assets are classified as cash equivalents if they are readily convertible to cash and are not subject to significant changes in value.
The Company has classified short-term bank deposits, investments in money market funds and short-dated treasury bills as cash equivalents.
Summary of new standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS IFRS 3R Business Combinations 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 July 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedge Items 1 July 2009 IFRS 1R Structural Amendment 1 July 2009 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners 1 July 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009 The effective dates stated are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
