59 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 2 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of profits and net assets at the end of the reporting period.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that have a material impact on net assets in future periods.
The key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to net assets within the next financial year are discussed below.
Other areas of uncertainty and risk are discussed in note 29.
Fair value of financial instruments The Group primarily invests in private equity limited partnerships Funds that in turn invest in companies that are typically unquoted.
Valuing unquoted investments involves a significant degree of judgement.
Fair values of the Funds in which the Group invests are typically provided by the general partner of such funds and are reviewed and, if considered appropriate, approved by the Board.
The fair value of a Funds investment in an investee company is generally obtained by calculating the Enterprise Value EV of the company and then deducting financial instruments, such as external debt, ranking ahead of the Funds highest ranking instrument in the company.
A common method of determining the EV is to apply a market-based multiple i. e. an average multiple based on a selection of comparable quoted companies to the normalised earnings of the investee company.
This market-based approach presumes that the comparator companies are correctly valued by the market.
Where the fair value of financial assets recorded in the Groups balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques, in accordance with IPEV Valuation Guidelines, including the methodology briefly outlined above.
The valuation techniques recommended by the IPEV Board are industry standard.
However, amounts ultimately realised on disposal of an investee company can differ materially from the previous carrying value and therefore have a significant impact on the Groups profits and net assets.
Taxes Uncertainties exist with respect to the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Significant deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of brought-forward tax losses that the Company can utilise to offset future taxable profits.
Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
The Company expects to derive returns primarily in the form of capital gains on its investment portfolio.
As an investment trust, the Company is exempt from corporation tax on capital gains.
The Companys tax return for the year-ended 31 December 2008 showed taxable losses amounting to 42.2 million.
If the Group recognised these losses as deferred tax assets, profits and net assets would increase by 11.8 million.
A tax return for the year ended 31 December 2009 hasnt been submitted yet but is expected to show a further taxable loss.
3 Business segments For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into the following two principal activities: Investing activities SVG Capitals investment objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira, an international private equity specialist.
In addition, the Company invests in private equity funds that invest in Japan, North America, Asia and the life sciences sectors, and in unquoted and quoted businesses through specialist funds and co-investments alongside these funds.
Investing activities are undertaken by SVG Capital plc, SVG India LP and The Platinum Trust.
A further segmental analysis within investment activities is the Groups exposure to Permira and non-Permira investments.
Investment management and advisory services To complement this investment objective and create capital and income for the Company, its fund advisory business structures, markets, manages and advises products for investment in private equity and in public equity using private equity techniques.
Investment management and advisory services are provided by SVG Advisers Limited SVGA, SVG Managers Limited SVGM, SVG Advisers Inc. SVGI, SVG North America SVGNA, SVG Advisers Singapore Limited Pte.
SVGS and SVG Investment Managers Limited SVGIM.
This latter category can be further sub-divided into the following three main business areas: SVGA external private equity investment management and advisory services provided by SVGA, SVGNA and SVGS.
SVGIM public equity investment management services provided by SVGIM, plus the ancillary operations of SVGM and SVGI.
Other intra-Group services provided by SVGA to SVG Capital and the Permira feeder vehicles, plus certain other items.
For this purpose in respect of the current year, items such as redundancy costs, defined benefit pension costs in respect of former employees, project costs, LTIP costs and charges associated with the termination of supplier contracts fall within this category.
These sub-categories are additional business segments to those disclosed in prior years and are intended to provide a further layer of information to shareholders.
This will be of greater relevance going forward as share-based payment awards granted to SVGA employees in 2010 will include vesting conditions that will be partly dependent on the performance of the SVGA business unit.
Notes to the accounts continued 60 3 Business segments continued These activities are undertaken by SVG Advisers Limited, SVG Managers Limited, SVG Investment Managers Limited, SVG Advisers Singapore Pte.
