Notes to the accounts 54 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company and the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2005 is consistent with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared on a basis compliant with the SORP.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors consider that for the foreseeable future the Group will continue to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Revised Amendments to IFRS 2 i clarified the definition of vesting conditions and prescribed the treatment for an award that is cancelled and ii clarified the scope and accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
The Group adopted these amendments as of 1 January 2009.
It did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 3 introduced significant changes in the accounting for business combinations.
Changes affect the valuation of non-controlling interests, accounting for transaction costs, initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent consideration and business combinations achieved in stages.
IAS 27 Amended requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore not give rise to goodwill or a gain or loss.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Amendments to IFRS 7 were issued by the IASB in March 2009 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments to IFRS 7 require fair value measurements to be disclosed by the source of inputs, using a three-level hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 In addition, the amendment revises the specific minimum liquidity risk disclosures including: the contractual maturity of non-derivative and derivative financial liabilities, and a description of how this risk is managed.
Comparative information has not been restated or provided as permitted by the transitional provisions of the amendment.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are slightly more detailed than those previously identified.
IFRS 8 disclosures are shown in note 3, including the related revised comparative information.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
The Group has also adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2009: IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 9 Remeasurement of Embedded Derivatives Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 Adopting these changes did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
