Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES There were seven Board meetings and two audit committee meetings held during the year and the The Board attaches great importance to ensuring attendance by the directors was as follows: that the Company operates to high ethical and compliance standards.
In addition, the Board Number of meetings attended Audit seeks to observe the principles set out in the AIC Board Committee Code of Corporate Governance, established John Reeve 7 2 specifically for investment trust companies and June fide Moller 7 2 endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council.
By Richard Jewson 7 2 following the Code, the Company continues to Martin Riley 7 2 meet its obligations in relation to the FRCs Field Walton 6 2 David Webster 7 2 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Code provides a guide to best practice in Independence of the Directors certain areas of governance where the specific Each of the directors is independent of any characteristics of investment trusts suggest that association with the management company and alternative approaches to those set out in the has no other relationships or circumstances Combined Code may be preferable.
which might be perceived to interfere with the COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE exercise of independent judgement.
Two of the six directors Mr Reeve and Mr Walton have AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE served on the Board for more than nine years Operation of the Board from the date of their first election, but given the Each of the directors is independent of any nature of the Company as an investment trust association with the management company and the strongly independent mindset of the which might interfere with the exercise of individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the independent judgement.
There is a formal view that all of the directors can be considered schedule of matters to be specifically approved to be independent.
In arriving at this conclusion by the Board and individual directors may seek the Board makes a clear distinction between the independent advice at the expense of the activities of an investment trust and a Company within certain limits.
The Board has conventional trading company.
An investment delegated the investment management, within trust has no employees or executive directors, clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, the only significant relationship being with the and the administration of the business to management company.
In overseeing this Investec Asset Management Limited IAM.
The relationship it is the view of the Board that long Board makes all strategic decisions, reviews the service aids the understanding, judgement, performance of the Company at Board meetings objectivity and independence of the directors and sets the objectives for the Manager.
The and in no way detracts from any of these directors have a range of business and financial qualities.
skills or experience relevant to the direction of Re-election of directors the Company.
Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their The Company Secretary is responsible to the appointment and, thereafter, are subject to Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board retirement by rotation at intervals of no more procedures are followed and for compliance with than three years.
In addition, the appointment of applicable rules and regulations including the AIC each director is reviewed by other members of Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated the Board every year.
Directors are not, representative of the Corporate Company therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter Non-executive directors are not appointed for for the Board as a whole.
Because of the nature of an The content and presentation of Board papers investment trust the Board believes that the circulated before each meeting contain sufficient contribution and independence of a director is information on the financial condition of the not diminished by long service and, conversely, Company.
Key representatives of IAM attend that a more detailed knowledge of the Company each Board meeting enabling directors to probe and its business has a beneficial impact.
on matters of concern or seek clarification on The directors due to stand for re-election at the certain issues.
forthcoming AGM are Mr Jewson and Mr Reeve.
The Board has carefully considered the position of each of these directors and believes it would 22 22 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t
