1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Expenses All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the income statement, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or sales of investments designated as fair value through profit or loss are expensed to capital in the income statement.
Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments held can be demonstrated, and accordingly the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect the directors long term view of the nature of the expected investment returns of the Company.
Management charge In accordance with the expected long term division of returns, 40% 2008: 40% of the investment management fee for the year is charged to revenue and the other 60% 2008: 60% is charged to capital, net of incremental corporation tax relief and inclusive of any related irrecoverable value added tax.
Investments in funds managed by the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this charge.
Taxation The tax expenses represent the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
The taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group and Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been or are substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the income statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by expenses in the revenue column of the income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the revenue return column of the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
