Corporate governance continued The directors are responsible for the Group and Exercise of Voting Rights the Companys system of internal control and for The Manager has been instructed to vote on reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate behalf of the Company in accordance with the control process the Board has requested the recommendations put forward by the National Manager to confirm annually that they have Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the conducted the Group and the Companys affairs Manager wish to vote in a different way to the in compliance with the legal and regulatory recommendation of the NAPF this requires the obligations which apply to the Group and the specific approval of the Board.
Company and to report on the systems and procedures within Investec which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly reconciled.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal control matters and does not believe that there is scope or necessity for an internal audit function in addition to that employed by the Manager.
Based on the foregoing the Group and the Company has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the reporting period and to the date of this report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance and the Combined Code.
Socially Responsible Investment The Board believes that its primary duty is to act in the best financial interests of the Company and its shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the ethical stance of investee companies on matters such as the environment or society as a whole, the ultimate objective is to deliver superior investment returns for shareholders.
