Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups and Companys balance sheet when the Group or Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group or Company shall offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Group or Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
Financial assets and liabilities are derecognised when the Group or Company settles its obligations relating to the instrument.
Other receivables Other receivables do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Investments Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments, which are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses on investments designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included in net profit or loss as a capital item, and transaction costs on acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed.
For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell an asset.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest bearing borrowings Interest bearing borrowings, being the debenture stocks issued by the Company, are initially recognised at cost, being the proceeds received net of issue cost associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other payables Other payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity dividends payable Equity dividends payable are recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
