Notice of meeting NOTICE OF MEETING: NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty fourth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Monday 29 March 2010 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1. to approve the group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon, 2. to approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009, 3. to declare a final dividend of 23.0p per ordinary share, 4. to re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director, 5. to re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director, 6. to re-appoint the auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS: 7.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,474,034, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2010, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date upon which this resolution is passed but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
That the provision of the Companys memorandum as to the amount of the Companys authorised share capital as altered by anything done by virtue of Section 121 of the Companies Act 1985, which as from 1 October 2009 is treated as a provision of the Companys Articles setting a maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the Company, be revoked with the intent and effect that such provision is deleted from the Articles.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 7 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 570-573 of that Act for cash, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares, as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,474,034: and 46 Temple Bar Investment Trust
