Notice of meeting NOTICE OF MEETING: NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty fourth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Monday 29 March 2010 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1. to approve the group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon, 2. to approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009, 3. to declare a final dividend of 23.0p per ordinary share, 4. to re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director, 5. to re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director, 6. to re-appoint the auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS: 7.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,474,034, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2010, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date upon which this resolution is passed but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
That the provision of the Companys memorandum as to the amount of the Companys authorised share capital as altered by anything done by virtue of Section 121 of the Companies Act 1985, which as from 1 October 2009 is treated as a provision of the Companys Articles setting a maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the Company, be revoked with the intent and effect that such provision is deleted from the Articles.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 7 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 570-573 of that Act for cash, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares, as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,474,034: and 46 Temple Bar Investment Trust shall expire five years from the date upon which this resolution is passed save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
10. i That the Articles of Association of the Company are amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and ii That the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Dated this 23rd day of February, 2010 By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade For Investec Asset Management Limited Secretary 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Temple Bar Investment Trust 47 NEWGATE STREET CHEAPSIDE GRESHAM STREET Notice of meeting continued Museum of London LONDON WALL Shown is a plan of the location of Investec Asset St Barts Management Limited, Hospital ANGEL ST. 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP where the Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 29 March 2010 at 11.00 a. m. ST PAULS St Pauls Cathedral NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in respect of a specified number of shares within his holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and must indicate the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6LT so as to arrive no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Companys register of members by 6.00 p. m. on 27 March 2010 in order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent IDRA19 by not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1 January 2009: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year 1 January 2009 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
As at 23 February 2010, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 58,961,367 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 58,961,367 voting rights.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website: www.
T S E U G A T N O M. T S NOBLE ST STREET D R A W D FOSTER LA WOOD E G N I K ST MARTINS LE GRAND
