Report of the directors continued DONATIONS securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,474,034 equivalent to 5,896,136 ordinary No political or charitable donations were made shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the Companys during the year 2008: Nil.
existing issued ordinary share capital.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO The directors intend to use this authority to issue AUDITORS new shares to participants in the Temple Bar The directors are not aware of any relevant Investment Trust Savings Scheme or to other information of which the auditors are unaware prospective purchasers whenever they believe it and have taken all the steps that they ought to may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
have taken as directors in order to make Any such issues would only be made at prices themselves aware of any relevant audit greater than net asset value, as adjusted for the information and to establish that the Companys market value of the Companys debt, and, auditors are aware of that information.
therefore, would increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be AUDITORS available for investment in line with the A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Companys investment policy.
auditors to the Company will be proposed at the No issues of shares will be made which would Annual General Meeting on 29 March 2010. alter the control of the Company without the ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION prior approval of shareholders in general We are asking shareholders to adopt new articles meeting.
of association the New Articles, primarily to The appropriate resolutions are set out in the take account of changes in company law brought notice of meeting on page 46. about by the Companies Act 2006.
The proposed DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE changes introduced in the New Articles are THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES summarised in the Appendix on page 49.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or The directors consider it desirable to give the clarifying nature or which merely reflect Company the opportunity to buy back shares in modifications made by the Companies Act 2006 circumstances where the shares may be bought have not been noted in the Appendix.
The New for a price which is below the net asset value per Articles showing all the changes to the current share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary articles are available for inspection at the Office shares is intended to reduce the discount at of the Manager, Investec Asset Management, which ordinary shares trade in the market Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, London through the Company becoming a new source of EC2V 5HA from 23 February 2010 until the time demand for ordinary shares.
The rules of the UK of the AGM and at the location of the meeting, Listing Authority provide that the maximum price 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP from which can be paid by the Company is 5% above 15 minutes before the AGM until it ends.
the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES AND purchase is made.
DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS It is expected that any shares bought back It is proposed that the directors be authorised to pursuant to this authority will be cancelled rather allot up to 1,474,034 of relevant securities in the than being held in Treasury.
The appropriate Company equivalent to 5,896,136 ordinary resolution is set out in the notice of meeting on shares of 25p each, representing 10.0% of its page 46. ordinary shares in issue as at 23 February 2010.
When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires such new shares By order of the Board of Directors to be offered first to existing shareholders in M K Slade proportion to their existing holdings of ordinary For Investec Asset Management Limited shares.
However, in certain circumstances, it is Secretary beneficial to allot shares for cash otherwise than 23 February 2010 pro rata to existing shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can by special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting which, if passed, will give the directors the power to allot for cash equity 20 20 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t
