Appendix to the notice of meeting EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 1.
Memorandum of Association From 1 October 2009 the memorandum of association of a company must only contain a statement that the original subscribers wish to form a company, agree to be members of the company and accept at least one share each in the company.
The other provisions of the memorandum of association are deemed to form part of the articles of association.
The provisions of the memorandum of association have been copied into the New Articles with the exception of the objects clause and the information about the share capital of the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company is no longer required to have an objects clause or an authorised share capital.
Authorised share capital Under the Companies Act 2006 it is no longer necessary for a company to have an authorised share capital.
References to an authorised share capital have therefore been removed from the New Articles.
Conversion of shares into stock Under the Companies Act 2006 it is no longer possible to convert shares into stock.
However, reconversion of stock, that was previously converted from shares, back into shares is still permitted.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
Consolidation and sub-division of shares The Current Articles give the company authority to consolidate and or sub-divide its shares by ordinary resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 it is no longer necessary for this authority to be given in the articles of association.
This provision has therefore been removed from the New Articles.
Notice of general meetings The Companies Act 2006 has changed the requirements for calling a general meeting on short notice, for making such a notice available on a website and for the content of a notice calling a general meeting.
The New Articles have been amended to reflect these provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans casting vote Under the Companies Act 2006 a traded company is no longer permitted to give the chairman a casting vote for breaking a deadlock on an ordinary resolution.
The Articles have been amended to be consistent with this restriction.
Proxies Under the Current Articles the directors are given discretion when deciding whether to accept instruments of proxy that are delivered electronically.
The Companies Act 2006 states that such instruments must be accepted subject to any conditions imposed by the directors.
The New Articles have been amended accordingly.
The provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding the amount of time that a proxy appointment is valid for have been reflected in the New Articles.
