The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks that the Company is exposed to.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review and, if relevant, necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
It has to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 13 June 2008, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its Ordinary Shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue on 13 June 2008 or 70,854,915 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to purchase the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market, being a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue on 17 July 2009 or 49,533,908 shares, whichever is the lower, at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and b that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
The minimum price payable for the Ordinary Shares will be 25 pence per share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowing.
The authority to purchase shares will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally and would result in an increase in asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2010 and in each succeeding year.
ANNUALGENERALMEETING Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2009 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2009.
It is proposed to declare an ordinary dividend and a special dividend.
It is proposed to re-elect Neil A Collins and Gregory E Johnson as Directors.
It is proposed to appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors in place of Grant Thornton UK LLP, the retiring auditors.
It is proposed to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to i the continuation of the Company as an investment trust, ii the authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares and iii to maintain the 14 clear days notice period for general meetings.
Continuation Vote It is proposed in resolution 9 that pursuant to Article 147 A of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company continues as an investment trust for a further five years.
Market Purchases It is proposed in resolution 10 that the Company be authorised to make market purchases in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and subject to specified conditions.
Notice Period for General Meetings The Shareholder Rights Directive is intended to be implemented in the UK in August this year.
One of the requirements of the Directive is that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
TEMIT is currently able to call general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Special Resolution 11 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe all the Resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the Resolutions.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH, UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 12 June 2009 36 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
