13 Related party transactions The following are considered to be related parties: Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML.
All material related party transactions, as set out in International Accounting Standard 24 Related Party Disclosures, have been disclosed in the Directors Report, Note 2 and Note 3.
14 Risk management In pursuing the investment objectives set out on the page 23 of this Report the Company holds a number of financial instruments which are exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market risk which comprises market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks, and the methods used to measure the risk, are set out below.
These policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which these financial statements relate.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainties about future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Directors meet quarterly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to minimise the risk associated with particular countries or industry sectors whilst continuing to follow the investment objectives.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selected in accordance with the overall asset allocation parameters described above and seeks to ensure that individual stocks also meet the risk reward profile on an ongoing basis.
The Investment Manager does not use derivative instruments to hedge the investment portfolio against market price risk, as in its opinion, the cost of such a process would result in an unacceptable reduction in the potential for capital growth.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55
