13 Related party transactions The following are considered to be related parties: Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML.
All material related party transactions, as set out in International Accounting Standard 24 Related Party Disclosures, have been disclosed in the Directors Report, Note 2 and Note 3.
14 Risk management In pursuing the investment objectives set out on the page 23 of this Report the Company holds a number of financial instruments which are exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market risk which comprises market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks, and the methods used to measure the risk, are set out below.
These policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which these financial statements relate.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainties about future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Directors meet quarterly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to minimise the risk associated with particular countries or industry sectors whilst continuing to follow the investment objectives.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selected in accordance with the overall asset allocation parameters described above and seeks to ensure that individual stocks also meet the risk reward profile on an ongoing basis.
The Investment Manager does not use derivative instruments to hedge the investment portfolio against market price risk, as in its opinion, the cost of such a process would result in an unacceptable reduction in the potential for capital growth.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55  CONTINUED 14 Risk management continued Foreign currency risk Currency translation movements can significantly affect the income and capital value of the Companys investments as the majority of the Companys assets and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The Investment Manager has identified three principal areas where foreign currency risk could affect the Company: movements in rates affect the value of investments: movements in rates affect short-term timing differences: and movements in rates affect the income received.
The Company does not hedge the sterling value of investments that are priced in other currencies.
The Company may be subject to short-term exposure to exchange rate movements, for instance where there is a difference between the date an investment purchase or sale is entered into and the date on which it is settled.
The Company receives income in currencies other than sterling and the sterling values of this income can be affected by movements in exchange rates.
The Company converts all receipts of income into sterling on or near the date of receipt.
It, however, does not hedge or otherwise seek to avoid rate movement risk on income accrued but not received.
The fair value of the Companys monetary items that have foreign currency exposure at 30 April 2009 are shown below: 2009 Trade and Trade and Total net Investments at other Cash other foreign currency fair value through receivables at bank payables exposure profit or loss Currency 000 000 000 000 000 US $ 4,803 1,775 127 6,452 396,806 Hong Kong $ 209,330 Thai Bhat 474 474 109,348 Indian Rupee 103,726 Korean Won 99,536 New Turkish Lira 78,752 Other 114 914 1,728 700 186,398 2008 Trade and Trade and Total net Investments at other Cash other foreign currency fair value through receivables at bank payables exposure profit or loss Currency 000 000 000 000 000 US $ 5,455 4,758 10,213 841,085 Hong Kong $ 308 308 333,831 Indonesia Rupee 5,235 5,235 134,963 Korean Won 236,801 Thai Bhat 1,896 1,896 204,639 New Turkish Lira 103 103 178,931 Other 15,020 2,938 971 16,987 334,676 56 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 14 Risk management continued Sensitivity The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the profit loss after taxation for the year in regard to the Companys monetary financial assets and liabilities and its equity if the pound had strengthened by 10% relative to all currencies on the reporting date, with all other variables held constant.
A 10% weakening of the pound against the above currencies would have resulted in an equal and opposite effect on the above amounts.
Interest rate risk The Company is permitted to invest in fixed rate securities.
Any change to the interest rates relevant to particular securities may result in either income increasing or decreasing, or the Manager being unable to secure similar returns on the expiry of contracts or the sale of securities.
In addition, changes to prevailing rates or changes in expectations of future rates may result in an increase or decrease in the value of the securities held.
In general, if interest rates rise the income potential of the Company also rises, but the value of fixed rate securities will decline.
A decline in interest rates will have the opposite effect.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57  CONTINUED 14 Risk management continued Interest rate risk profile The majority of the Companys financial assets are non-interest bearing equity investments.
The carrying amount, by the earlier of contractual re-pricing or maturity date, of the Companys financial instruments was as follows: Within Within one year one year 2009 2008 000 000 Cash flow interest rate risk Loans and receivables Cash 29,671 22,605 Exposures vary throughout the year as a consequence of changes in the make up of the net assets of the Company arising from out of the investment and risk management process.
Cash balances are held on call deposit and earn interest at the banks daily rate.
There were no exposure to fixed interest investment securities during the year or at the year end.
Liquidity risk The Companys assets comprise mainly of securities listed on the stock exchanges of emerging economies.
Liquidity can vary from market to market and some securities may take longer to sell.
As a closed ended investment trust, liquidity risks attributable to the Company are less significant than for an open-ended fund.
The risk of the company not having sufficient liquidity at any time is not considered by the board to be significant, given the large number of quoted investments held in the portfolio and the liquid nature of the portfolio of investments The portfolio manager reviews liquidity at the time of making each investment decision and monitors the evolving liquidity profile of the portfolio regularly.
Securities held by the Company are valued at Bid price.
Other financial assets and liabilities of the Company are included in the balance sheet at fair value.
Credit risk Certain transactions in securities that the Company enters into expose it to the risk that the counter-party will not deliver the investment purchase or cash in relation to sale or declared dividend after the Company has fulfilled its responsibilities.
The Company only buys and sells through brokers which have been approved by the Investment Manager as an acceptable counter-party.
In addition, limits are set as to the maximum exposure to any individual broker that may exist at any time.
These limits are reviewed regularly.
The company has an ongoing contract with its custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank for the provision of custody services.
Details of securities held in custody on behalf of the Company are received and reconciled monthly.
Cash is held in a floating rate deposit account whose rate is determined by reference to rates supplied by the Custodian.
There is no significant risk on debtors and accrued income or tax at the year end.
58 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
