NOTICEOFMEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC the Company will be held in the Mountbatten Room, the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS on 17 July 2009 at 12 noon to transact the following business: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 9 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary Business Resolution No.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2009.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2009.
To declare an ordinary dividend of 3.75 pence per ordinary share.
To declare a special dividend of 2.50 pence per ordinary share.
To re-elect Neil A Collins as a Director.
To re-elect Gregory E Johnson as a Director.
To appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors in place of Grant Thornton UK LLP the retiring auditors to act until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company at which audited accounts are laid before the members.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
That, pursuant to Article 147 A of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company shall continue in being as an investment trust.
That, in addition to any existing authorities granted to the Company, the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the company the Ordinary Shares provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall not exceed 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue on 17 July 2009, or 49,533,908 shares, whichever is lower: b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 25 pence: c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average market value of Ordinary Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the regulation entitled the Buy-Back and Stabilisation Regulation: and d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which will or may be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street, Edinburgh EH3 8BH Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 12 June 2009 Please ensure that you read the notes to this Notice on pages 61 and 62.
60 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Notes: 1.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those members registered on the Companys register of members at 6.00pm on 15 July 2009 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, to speak and, on a poll, vote thereat instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to one share.
Please contact the Companys registrar Equiniti, at Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to appoint more than one proxy.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
A proxy form must be returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to arrive not later than 12 noon on 15 July 2009.
NZ Shareholders must return a proxy form to Computershare Private Bag 92119, Auckland 1142, New Zealand to arrive not later than 4 p. m. on 14 July 2009 NZ time.
As at 5.00pm on 12 June 2009, the Companys issued share capital was 330,446,352 ordinary shares of 25p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to vote at an annual general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 5.00pm on 12 June 2009 is 330,446,352.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the Directors, the current Articles of Association of the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 5 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BH, at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, The Adelphi, 1-11 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6HT and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The Dress Code of the RAC Club requires that gentlemen must wear a shirt with collar and tie.
No jeans or trainers are permitted and ladies must wear smart business attire.
Electronic proxy appointment for CREST members for UK only CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 July 2009 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent IDRA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 61 NOTICEOFMEETING CONTINUED ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic proxy appointment for non-CREST members for UK only Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk where full instructions on the procedure are given.
The personal reference number, card ID and account number printed in the voting pack will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 15 July 2009.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic proxy appointment for New Zealand registered shareholders New Zealand registered investors who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Computershare website at www.
co. nz investor centre, click on Proxy voting, choose the company, where full instructions on the procedure are given.
Your CSN Common Shareholder Number and personal FIN Number will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than that provided or if received after 4 p. m. on 14 July 2009 NZ time.
Please note that any electronic communication found and contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
New Zealand registered investors cannot appoint more than one proxy when registering the appointment of their proxy electronically.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that: i if a corporate member has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all the other corporate representatives for that member at the Meeting, then, on a poll, those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the Meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter to appoint the Chairman as a corporate representative as described in i above.
A member of the Company may make a request in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to have a statement published on the Companys website setting out an audit concern.
This allows a member or members having a right to vote at the Meeting and holding at least 5% of total voting rights of the Company: or at least 100 members have a right to vote at the Meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital, to make a request so that the Company must publish on its website, a statement setting out any matter that such members propose to raise at the Meeting relating to either the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting or the circumstances connected with Grant Thornton UK LLP ceasing to hold office.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website: i it may not require the members making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request: ii it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditors no later than the time the statement is made available on the Companys website: and ii the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the Meeting.
A member wishing to request publication of such a statement on the Companys website must send the request to the Company in hard copy form to [the Company secretary].
The request must either set out the statement in full or, if supporting a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the statement which is being supported and be received by the Company at least one week before the Meeting.
62 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
