Independent Auditors Report on the Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of The by the Directors in the preparation of the Company financial Carphone Warehouse Group PLC the Company statements, and of whether the accounting policies are We have audited the Company financial statements for the year appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the balance sheet and applied and adequately disclosed.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary We have reported separately on the Group financial statements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give for the year ended 31 March 2009 and on the information in the reasonable assurance that the Company financial statements Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud been audited.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a information in the Company financial statements.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Opinion state to the Companys members those matters we are In our opinion: required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
as at 31 March 2009: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the Company financial statements have been properly The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the information given in the Directors Report is consistent United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice with the Company financial statements.
are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 40.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements London, United Kingdom in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 4June 2009 and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made www.
