Directors Report Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors have elected to prepare the individual company Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The individual Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Company financial statements are required by law to give statements for each financial period.
The Directors are required a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
by the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are to prepare the Group financial statements under International required to: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
The financial statements are also select suitable accounting policies and then apply required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with them consistently: the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that and prudent: financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of Standards have been followed, subject to any material transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with departures disclosed and explained in the financial the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, statements: and income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by continue in business.
compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the properly select and apply accounting policies: financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 present information, including accounting policies, in a and the effective provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
They manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group understandable information: and and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity to understand the impact of particular transactions, other of the corporate and financial information included on the events and conditions on the entitys financial position and corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom financial performance.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report confirms that: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of taken as a whole: and any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
the Business Review, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in and performance of the business and the position of the accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Act 1985. taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
C W Dunstone R W Taylor Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 40 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009
