THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Accounts, Directors Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Remuneration Report & Dividends Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Value for the These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation of the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would audited accounts, the approval of the directors remuneration only be made at prices below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers report and the declaration of the final dividends.
The vote to that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to approve the remuneration report is advisory only and will not be able to make such purchases as and when it considers the timing require the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in the to be favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for report should the resolution not be passed.
Resolution 5: Re-election of Director The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Resolution 5 deals with the re-election of Richard Stone as director.
Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on Under the Articles of Association, Richard Stone is required to retire 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable companies in the by rotation at the AGM: he has confirmed he will offer himself for United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they re-election.
have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any Resolution 6: Re-election of Director of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of Resolution 6 deals with the re-election of Hugh Seaborn as the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased director.
Under the Articles of Association, Hugh Seaborn is will continue to be cancelled.
required to retire by rotation at the AGM: he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such Resolution 7: Re-election of Director share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: Resolution 7 is for the re-election of Peter Salsbury, who has served on the Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires an Ordinary share if an Ordinary share is being directors who have served for more than nine years to seek annual purchased or of a Sigma share if a Sigma share is being re-election, Peter Salsbury will retire at the forthcoming AGM and purchased as taken from the London Stock Exchange he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Resolutions 8 and 9: Auditors preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & Young shares concerned: and LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine their remuneration.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share Resolution 10: Authority to make Market Purchases of the or Sigma share in the Company on the trading venue Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares where the purchase is carried out.
At the AGM held on 29 July 2008, a special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until the The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share and conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2009, to make 12.5p per Sigma share being the nominal values.
The Listing market purchases of the Companys own issued Ordinary shares Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares up to a maximum of 38,599,250 representing approximately representing up to 15% of its issued share capital through the 14.99% of the issued share capital as at 5 June 2008, the date of market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Notice of the AGM for cancellation.
This authority will expire at the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to this years AGM.
14.99% of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 38,483,078 Ordinary Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed shares of 25p each nominal value 9,620,770 and 18,725,808 authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the market.
Your Board Sigma shares of 12.5p each nominal value 2,340,726 at believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate 4 June 2009, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The authority will times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing shareholder last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2010 or at any value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from time to time other general meeting.
by the Board, make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at least 75% maximising the benefits to shareholders.
of those present and voting to be passed.
