TR Property Share Plan BNP Paribas Security Services offers a Share Plan providing a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate TR Property ISA You can invest directly in TR Property Investment Trust plc through the TR Property ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or an initial lump sum investment from 2,000, and further lump sums of 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations and reports Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Under the TR Property ISA, you are permitted to transfer your existing ISA funds into the Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Further Information Please consult our website www.
co. uk or write to: BNP Paribas Security Services TR Property Investment Trust plc Share Plan ISA Block C, Western House Lynch Wood Business Park Peterborough PE2 6BP Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on 0845 358 1113.
BNP Paribas Security Services is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
94 TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009 TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009 TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by This document is printed on Revive Silk of which 75% of the furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin fibres.
This paper is bleached using a combination of Totally Chlorine Free TCF and Elemental Chlorine Free ECF.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
