THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of b the maximum number of Sigma shares hereby TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Tuesday 28 July 2009 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 Pall Companys Sigma shares in issue at the date of the Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 18,725,808 following business: Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each at 4 June 2009, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : Ordinary Business 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009. be paid for any such share shall not be more than the higher of: 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2009. i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share if an Ordinary 3 To declare a final dividend of 3.45 pence per Ordinary share is being purchased or of a Sigma share if a share.
Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 4 To declare a final dividend of 1.10 pence per Sigma share.
five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares 5 To re-elect Richard Stone as a Director.
concerned: and 6 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a Director.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for 7 To re-elect Peter Salsbury as a Director.
an Ordinary share or Sigma share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried 8 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the out.
d the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may 9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being of the auditors.
the nominal value per Ordinary share and for Sigma shares the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being Special Business the nominal value per Sigma share: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as to which resolution 10 shall be proposed as a special resolution e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the and resolution 11 shall be proposed as an ordinary resolution: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 or at any other general meeting Special Resolution prior to such time.
10 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 166 Ordinary Resolution of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market 11 THAT subject to and in accordance with the Companies Act purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act 2006, as in force or as amended and re-enacted from of Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of time to time: 12.5 pence each in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time a the Company may supply documents or information to to time determine provided that: members, or persons nominated by members, by making them available on a website: a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the b a person in relation to whom the following conditions Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the are met is taken to have agreed that the Company Annual General Meeting equivalent to 38,483,078 may supply documents or information in that manner: Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at 4 June 2009, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : 86 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued i the person has been asked individually by the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Company to agree that the Company may supply 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General documents or information generally, or the Meeting AGM may appoint one or more proxies who documents or information in question, by means need not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a of a website: poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned in hard copy form by ii the Company has not received a response within post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, the period of 28 days beginning with the date on Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, which the Companys request was sent.
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB not less than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
Appointment of a proxy does In accordance with the Articles of Association holders of not preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and Sigma shares do not have the right to vote on a declaration voting in person.
of a dividend in respect of the Ordinary shares.
2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities In accordance with the Articles of Association holders of Regulations 2001, in order to be able to attend and vote at Ordinary shares do not have the right to vote on a the AGM or any adjourned meeting, and also for the declaration of a dividend in respect of the Sigma shares.
purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the Register Holders of Ordinary shares will vote on resolution 10 of Members of the Company by 12 noon on 26 July 2009 only in respect of market purchases of Ordinary shares and or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned holders of Sigma shares will vote on resolution 10 only in meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members respect of market purchases of Sigma shares.
after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Registered Office: Registered in England No: 84492 may be required to publish on a website a statement 51 Berkeley Square setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the London Companys accounts including the auditors report and the W1J 5BB conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
By Order of the Board The Company may not require the shareholders requesting Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited any such website publication to pay its expenses in Secretary complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 4 June 2009 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
4 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in TR Property Investment Trust 87 D WHITEHALL A O UR STREET R CHARING CRO AIR ST S R E GREEK ST DEAN STREET G E N T S T S R RUPERT ST OXENDON WARDOUR STREET E E T WHITCOMB STREET SACKVILLE ST ST WAR DO DUKE ST BURY ST MARLBOROUGH ROAD REGENT STEET SHERWOOD ST SAVILE ROW ST JAMESS STREET GT WINDMILL ST HAYMARKET LEXINGTON ST ARLINGTON STREET NEW BOND STREET OLD BOND STREET CARNABY ST C IRVING ST I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWNING ST S S U O K H S C S DENMAN ST O THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate Leicester Square representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate Piccadilly representative, a designated corporate representative will Circus Royal Academy be nominated, from those corporate representatives who National of Arts Gallery attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate Nelsons Column representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are Green referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Park Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being GREEN ST JAMESS PARK PARK appointed as described in i above.
5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Jacket and Tie.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to given instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
6 Biographical details of the Directors are shown on page 45 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
7 The issued share capital of the Company is 256,725,000 Ordinary shares of 25p each and 124,922,000 Sigma shares of 12.5p each.
The total number of voting rights in the Company is 381,647,000.
Shareholders are reminded that on a poll vote, the total number of votes cast is calculated according to the NAV per Ordinary share and the NAV per Sigma share.
8 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Letters of Appointment for Directors will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
88 TR Property Investment Trust L R A C STREET T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADDOX N I F LEIC I L L R A U GERRARD ST B R BROADWICK STREET T ORANGE ST JAMESS PANTON ST SQ PICCADILY KING STREET OLD COMPTON STREET ST JAMESS PLACE PALL MALL S RYDER T SQUARE E M JER YN STREET CHARLES II STREET L L UE A N P M BEAK STREET A ESTER CRANBOURN STREET L L E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BREWER STREET E T F A STRAND STREET H SHAFTESBURY AVENUE S CONDUIT STREET MONMOUTH ST ST MARTI ST MARTINS LANE NS PL
