THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 11: Electronic Communications by means of website communication, the relevant member must At the AGM held on 29 July 2008, the Companys Articles of be asked individually to agree that the Company may send or Association were updated to permit communication to members supply documents or information to him by means of a website.
in electronic form and to take advantage of new provisions relating The Company must either have received a positive response or to website communications.
In accordance with the Disclosure and have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning Transparency Rules this resolution must now be passed to allow with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will the Company to use these electronic forms of communication.
notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website Your Board is proposing that they should be given authority to and a member can always request a hard copy version of the supply documents and make information to members available on document or information.
Before the Company can communicate with a member Glossary of Terms Discount Ordinary shares The amount by which the market price per share of an Investment Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the Articles of Trust Company is lower than the Net Asset Value per share.
discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Premium Value per share.
The amount by which the market price per share of an Investment Dividend Yield Trust Company exceeds the Net Asset Value per share.
The The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per share.
Gearing Total debt comprising debentures, loan stock, bank loans and Sigma shares overdrafts less cash at bank and short term deposits divided by Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the Articles of shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value The value of the total assets less the liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include both current and long-term liabilities.
To calculate the Net Asset Value per Ordinary share, divide the Net Asset Value by the number of Ordinary shares in issue.
To calculate the Net Asset Value per Sigma share, divide the Net Asset Value by the number of Sigma shares in issue.
