Witan Investment Trust plc Marketing Review 2009 of money into the Jump Savings message for discretionary managers The primary aim of products.
Childrens savings and private client brokers.
Witans marketing is continues to be the main area of to stimulate demand growth for Witan, and it is very We have a number of new initiatives for Witan shares, encouraging to note that Witan now planned for 2010, and intend to thus providing a has more investors under the age of 5 make some significant improvements level of liquidity that it has over the age of 70. to the administration of our savings which boosts the schemes as referred to on page 9 in James Frost, share price and For many financial advisers the the Business Review, details of Marketing Director allows shareholders impending implementation of the which we should be in a position to to purchase and sell Retail Distribution Review RDR is share later in the year.
We will shares at a price accurately reflecting already having an impact on their continue to deploy a wide range of the performance rating of the businesses.
The main aim of the activities across the full marketing Company.
The presence of liquidity in RDR is to modernise the way in mix, including advertising, direct investment trust shares is increasingly which financial advice is paid for mail, public and investor relations, important in an environment where in short, renewal commission will be e-commerce and sponsorship.
Good demand can drop, discounts slip and outlawed.
Many financial advisers marketing should be innovative, price spreads widen.
The effects and are moving to a fee-based approach.
creative, and thought provoking, but results of Witans marketing is This is great news for investment what really matters is whether it measured and the results are reported trusts as historically they have been works, and that it generates new to the Board, to ensure all activity is ignored by financial advisers in investment into Witan.
To this end effective, adheres to our key favour of unit trusts and OEICs all marketing activity will continue objectives, and above all provides because of their inability to pay a to be tracked and reported to the value for money to shareholders.
RDR represents Board on a regular basis.
a golden opportunity for Investor sentiment in 2009 has been investment trusts like Witan as changeable as the markets.
When to reassert themselves as we started the year sentiment was cost-effective direct very fragile.
As the markets bombed competitors to open-ended so too did the AIC investor funds.
confidence index, which fell to a record low point in February.
As 2010 markets recovered so too did the 2010 is set to be a year of demand for equity based products, change for the financial thanks mainly to the speed of the services industry: progress recovery but also to continued low towards the interest rates and changes to the ISA implementation of RDR in limits for the over 50s.
These changes 2012: clarification of the have led to an influx of ISA flows.
implications of the AIFM Figures recently published by the Directive as referred to on Investment Managers Association page 9 in the Business show there were more equity ISAs Review : and a change of opened in October 2009 than in any government could bring corresponding month outside of the wholesale change to the ISA season since 2000. regulatory framework that governs the financial Within Witans savings schemes services industry.
For Witan, demand for shares remained strong the appointment of an throughout the year.
We saw a slight investment-led Chief net increase in the number of shares Executive Officer offers new held on the Witan Wealthbuilder opportunities to focus the platform, and a generous net inflow Companys investment 78 Annual Report 2009 How to invest who would prefer more investment There are a variety of ways to invest flexibility than the CTF allows.
Both in Witan Investment Trust plc.
the Jump Savings Plan and the CTF Naturally, Witans shares can be give parents, grandparents and other traded through any UK stockbroker.
adults the chance to save effectively However, Witan is also available for for children over the long term.
investment through the Witan Minimum lump-sum investments Wealthbuilder savings platform start at just 50, regular contributions managed by Witan Investment can be made from as little as 25 a Services.
Witan Wealthbuilder offers month or quarter.
Please visit different savings wrappers which www.
com for more carry the benefits of income information and application forms.
reinvestment, regular saving and tax efficient investment.
Saving scheme Further information on all investments may be purchased products is available by calling online, by telephone or through the 0800 082 81 80 or online via post.
Online dealing is fixed at 15 www.
If you would per trade while telephone and postal prefer to write to request further business is charged at 1% per deal information the address details subject to a minimum of 1.25. can be found on page 80.
The Share Plan is a straightforward Investors are reminded that the value savings scheme with a minimum of investments and the income from lump sum investment from 500 them may go down as well as up and and or regular savings from 50 per investors may not get back the month or quarter.
Tax benefits may change if the law The ISA enables investors to save changes and their value will depend efficiently up to a limit of 7,200 upon individual circumstances.
per annum 10,200 for the over Witan Investment Trust plc is an 50s rising to 10,200 for all eligible equity investment.
Minimum lump sum investment is Issued and approved by Witan 2,000 with regular savings from Investment Services Limited.
Investment Services Limited of 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE is The Transfer ISA allows investors to registered in England no.
5272533. transfer all or any number of their Witan Investment Services provides existing ISA holdings to Witan investment products and services and Wealthbuilder.
The investments is authorised and regulated by the retain their tax free status during and Financial Services Authority.
record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer Jump, Witans savings scheme for service.
children, now comes in two flavours, the Child Trust Fund CTF and the Savings Plan.
The CTF is for new born children who are entitled to receive the 250 voucher issued by the Government.
The Savings Plan is for older children who dont qualify for the CTF voucher or for investors 79
