Annual Report 2009 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Report and the financial statements in accordance with accuracy at any time the financial position of the applicable law and regulations.
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Company law requires the directors to prepare financial are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the directors are required to prepare the Group financial prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Union and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and have integrity of the corporate and financial information also chosen to prepare the parent company financial included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under United Kingdom governing the preparation and company law the directors must not approve the dissemination of financial statements may differ from financial statements unless they are satisfied that they legislation in other jurisdictions.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for Responsibility statement that period.
In preparing these financial statements, We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted properly select and apply accounting policies: by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the present information, including accounting policies, in a Company and the undertakings included in the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable consolidation taken as a whole: and and understandable information: the management report, which is incorporated into the provide additional disclosures when compliance with Directors' Report, includes a fair review of the the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to development and performance of the business and the enable users to understand the impact of particular position of the Company and the undertakings transactions, other events and conditions on the included in the consolidation taken as a whole, entity's financial position and financial performance: together with a description of the principal risks and and uncertainties that they face.
make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
By order of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate H M Henderson A L C Bell accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Chairman Chief Executive Officer 12 March 2010 12 March 2010 Note to those who access this document by electronic means The annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc and circulated to the Companys shareholders in hard copy format.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
However, the Board cannot accept responsibility for guaranteeing the integrity of the document in electronic format.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Office in London.
