Witan Investment Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one Companies Act 2006 the Act to the expiration of such authority hundred and second Annual General make market purchases within the and may make a purchase of Meeting of Witan Investment Trust meaning of section 693 of the Act Ordinary Shares pursuant to any plc will be held at Merchant Taylors of ordinary shares of 25p each in such contract provided that all Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares purchased EC2R 8JB on Tuesday 27 April 2010 Ordinary Shares, provided that: pursuant to the said authority shall be cancelled immediately at 2.30 pm for the following a the maximum aggregate upon completion of the purchase.
purposes: number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased as a Special Resolution Ordinary Business shall be 29,942,248 representing 11 THAT the Company be and is all as Ordinary Resolutions approximately 14.99% of the hereby generally and 1 To receive the Report and Ordinary Shares in issue at unconditionally authorised in Financial Statements for the year 12 March 2010, the date of this accordance with section 701 of ended 31 December 2009.
Notice of Annual General the Companies Act 2006 the Meeting : Act to make market purchases 2 To receive and approve the within the meaning of section Directors Remuneration Report b the minimum price exclusive 693 of the Act of 3.4 per cent for the year ended 31 December of expenses which may be paid Cumulative Preference Shares of 2009. for an Ordinary Share is 25p: 1 each and 2.7 per cent Cumulative Preference Shares of 3 To elect Mr A L C Bell as a director c the maximum price exclusive 1 each in the capital of the of the Company.
of expenses which may be paid Company Preference Shares, for an Ordinary Share is an provided that: 4 To re-elect Mr J E B Bevan as a amount equal to 105% of the director of the Company.
average middle market quotations a the maximum aggregate for an Ordinary Share taken from number of Preference Shares 5 To re-elect Mr R W Boyle as a the London Stock Exchange Daily hereby authorised to be purchased director of the Company.
Official List for the five business shall be the entire issued capital days immediately preceding the amount of the Preference Shares 6 To re-elect Mr H M Henderson as day on which the Company as at 12 March 2010, the date of a director of the Company.
agrees to purchase an Ordinary this Notice of Annual General Share, or such other amount as Meeting, being i 2,055,000 of 7 To re-elect Mr R H McGrath as a may be specified by the UK Listing the 3.4 per cent Cumulative director of the Company.
Authority from time to time: Preference Shares of 1 each and ii 500,000 of the 2.7 per cent 8 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as d the authority hereby conferred Cumulative Preference Shares of Statutory Auditors to the will expire at the conclusion of 1 each: Company.
the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011, or, if b the minimum price exclusive 9 To authorise the directors to earlier, on the expiry of 18 of expenses which may be paid determine the remuneration of months from the passing of this for a Preference Share is 1: the Statutory Auditors.
resolution, unless such authority is renewed, varied or revoked c the maximum price exclusive Other Business prior to such time: and of expenses which may be paid for To consider and, if thought fit, pass an Preference Share is an amount the following resolutions: e the Company may make a equal to 105% of the average contract to purchase Ordinary middle market quotations for the as a Special Resolution Shares under the authority hereby relevant Preference Share taken 10 THAT the Company be and is conferred prior to the expiry of from the London Stock Exchange hereby generally and such authority which will or may Daily Official List for the business unconditionally authorised in be executed wholly or partly after day immediately preceding the day accordance with section 701 of the 68 Annual Report 2009 on which the Company agrees to By order of the Board Notes purchase the relevant Preference G S Rice ACIS Resolutions 1 to 9 are proposed as Share, or such other amount as For and on behalf of ordinary resolutions.
This means that, for may be specified by the UK Listing Henderson Secretarial Services each of those resolutions to be passed, Authority from time to time: Limited, more than half of the votes cast must be Secretary in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions d the authority hereby conferred 12 March 2010 10 to 12 are proposed as special will expire at the conclusion of resolutions.
This means that, for each of the Annual General Meeting of those resolutions to be passed, at least the Company in 2011, or, if three quarters of the votes cast must be in earlier, on the expiry of 18 Registered Office favour of the resolution.
months from the passing of this 201 Bishopsgate resolution, unless such authority London EC2M 3AE 1.
Voting record date is renewed, varied or revoked Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Only those shareholders registered in prior to such time: and the Register of Members of the Registered as an investment Company at close of business on Friday e the Company may make a company in England and Wales 23 April 2010 shall be entitled to attend contract to purchase Preference Number 101625 and vote at the meeting in respect of Shares under the authority hereby the number of voting rights registered conferred prior to the expiry of in their name at that time.
Changes to such authority which will or may entries on the Register of Members after be executed wholly or partly after close of business on Friday 23 April the expiration of such authority 2010 shall be disregarded in and may make a purchase of determining the rights of any person to Preference Shares pursuant to any attend and vote at the meeting.
such contract provided that all Preference Shares purchased In the case of joint holders of a voting pursuant to the said authority right, the vote of the senior who tenders shall be cancelled immediately a vote, whether in person or by proxy, upon completion of the purchase.
shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for as a Special Resolution this purpose, seniority shall be 12 THAT determined by the order in which the a the Articles of Association of names stand in the Register of Members the Company be amended by in respect of the joint holding.
deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of 2.
Rights to attend and vote Association which, by virtue of Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to section 28 of the Companies Act attend and vote at the meeting or at any 2006, are to be treated as adjournment s thereof.
On a poll, every provisions of the Companys ordinary shareholder who is present in Articles of Association: and person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal value of shares b the Articles of Association held by him or her.
Accordingly, on a produced to the meeting and poll each ordinary shareholder has one initialled by the Chairman of the vote for every four shares held.
meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the 3.
Right to appoint proxies new Articles of Association of the Pursuant to section 324 of the Company in substitution for, and Companies Act 2006, a member entitled to the exclusion of, the existing to attend and vote at the meeting may Articles of Association.
appoint more than one proxy, provided 69 Witan Investment Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued that each proxy is appointed to exercise On a poll all or any of the voting rights In order for a proxy appointment made the rights attached to different shares of the member may be exercised by one by means of CREST to be valid, the held by him.
A proxy need not be a or more duly appointed proxies.
appropriate CREST message a CREST member of the Company.
However, where a member appoints Proxy Instruction must be properly more than one proxy, section 285 4 of authenticated in accordance with A form of proxy is enclosed.
The the Companies Act 2006 does not Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds completion of the form of proxy will not authorise the exercise by the proxies specifications and must contain the preclude a shareholder from attending taken together of more extensive voting information required for such and voting in person at the meeting.
rights than could be exercised by the instructions, as described in the CREST member in person.
The message must be transmitted Section 324 does not apply to persons so as to be received by the Issuers agent nominated to receive information 5.
Voting by corporate representatives ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of rights pursuant to section 146 of the Corporate representatives are entitled to proxy appointments specified in note 6 Companies Act 2006.
Persons attend and vote on behalf of the above.
For this purpose, the time of nominated to receive information corporate member in accordance with receipt will be taken to be the time as rights under section 146 of the section 323 of the Companies Act 2006. determined by the timestamp applied to Companies Act 2006 have been sent the message by the CREST applications this notice of meeting and are hereby 6.
Receipt and termination of proxies host from which the Issuers agent is able informed, in accordance with section A form of proxy is enclosed and to be to retrieve the message by enquiry to 149 2 of the Companies Act 2006, that valid must be lodged with the Companys CREST in the manner prescribed by they may have the right under an Registrar before 2.30pm on Friday 23 CREST.
After this time any change of agreement with the registered member April 2010. instructions to proxies appointed through by whom they are nominated to be CREST should be communicated to the appointed, or to have someone else A member may terminate a proxys appointee through other means.
appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
authority at any time before the If they have no such right or do not commencement of the meeting.
CREST members and, where applicable, wish to exercise it, they may have a Termination must be provided in writing their CREST sponsors or voting service right under such an agreement to give and submitted to the Companys Registrar.
provider s should note that Euroclear UK instructions to the member as to the & Ireland Limited does not make exercise of voting rights.
In accordance with the Companys available special procedures in CREST for Articles of Association, in determining the any particular messages.
Normal system Nominated persons should contact the time for delivery of proxies, no account timings and limitations will therefore registered member by whom they were shall be taken of any part of a day that is apply in relation to the input of CREST nominated in respect of these not a working day.
It is the responsibility arrangements.
of the CREST member concerned to take 7.
Electronic receipt of proxies or, if the CREST member is a CREST 4.
Proxies rights to vote at the meeting CREST members who wish to appoint a personal member or sponsored member On a vote on a show of hands, each proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST or has appointed a voting service proxy has one vote.
electronic proxy appointment service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s may do so for the meeting and any If a proxy is appointed by more than take s such action as shall be necessary adjournment s thereof by utilising the one member and all such members have to ensure that a message is transmitted by procedures described in the CREST instructed the proxy to vote in the same means of the CREST system by any manual, which is available to download way, the proxy will only be entitled, on particular time.
In this connection, from the Euroclear website a show of hands, to vote for or CREST sponsors or voting service www.
If a proxy is providers are referred, in particular, to personal members or other CREST appointed by more than one member, those sections of the CREST manual sponsored members, and those CREST but such members have given different concerning practical limitations of the members who have appointed a voting voting instructions, the proxy may, on a CREST system and timings.
service provider s, should refer to their show of hands, vote both for and CREST sponsor or voting service against in order to reflect the different The Company may treat as invalid a provider s, who will be able to take the voting instructions.
CREST Proxy Instruction in the appropriate action on their behalf.
70 Annual Report 2009 circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 9.
Website b must identify the resolution of of the Uncertificated Securities A copy of the notice of the meeting, which notice is to be given by Regulations 2001. including these explanatory notes, is either setting out the resolution included on the Companys website, in full or, if supporting a 8.
Questions at the meeting www.
com resolution sent by another Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 member, clearly identifying the requires the directors to answer any 10.
Total voting rights resolution which is being question raised at the AGM which relates As at 11 March 2010 being the latest supported: to the business of the meeting, although business day prior to the publication of no answer need be given a if to do so this Notice, the Companys issued c must be authenticated by the would interfere unduly with the ordinary share capital consists of person or persons making it 199,748,153 ordinary shares of 25p each.
preparation of the meeting or involve see note 14 below : and On a poll ordinary shareholders have disclosure of confidential information: b one vote for every 1 in nominal value if the answer has already been given on d must be received by the i. e. four ordinary shares are required for the Companys website: or c if it is Company not later than one vote.
The Company does not hold undesirable in the best interests of the 6 weeks before the meeting.
any ordinary shares in treasury.
Company or the good order of the Therefore the total number of voting meeting that the question be answered.
Members right to have a matter of rights in the Company on a poll were business dealt with at the meeting 49,937,038.
Members satisfying the thresholds in Under section 338A of the Companies section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 Act 2006, a member or members meeting 11.
Members right to require circulation can require the Company to publish a the qualification criteria set out in note of resolution to be proposed at the statement on its website setting out any 13 below, may, subject to conditions, meeting matter, relating to a the audit of the require the Company to include in the Under section 338 of the Companies Act Companys accounts including the business to be dealt with at the AGM a 2006, a member or members meeting the auditors report and the conduct of the matter other than a proposed resolution qualification criteria set out at note 13 audit that are to be laid before the which may properly be included in the below, may, subject to conditions, require meeting or b any circumstances business a matter of business.
the Company to give to members notice connected with an auditor of the of a resolution which may properly be Company ceasing to hold office since The conditions are that: moved and is intended to be moved at the last annual general meeting, that that meeting.
the members propose to raise at the i The matter of business must not be meeting.
The Company cannot require defamatory of any person, frivolous The conditions are that: the members requesting the publication or vexatious.
Any statement i The resolution must not, if passed, placed on the website must also be sent ii The request: be ineffective whether by reason of to the Company's auditors no later than inconsistency with any enactment or the time at which it makes its statement a may be in hard copy form or in the Company's constitution or available on the website.
The business electronic form see note 14 otherwise.
which may be dealt with at the meeting below : includes any statement that the ii The resolution must not be Company has been required to publish b must identify the matter of defamatory of any person, frivolous on its website.
business by either setting it out or vexatious.
in full or, if supporting a By attending the meeting, members and statement sent by another iii The request: their proxies and representatives are member, clearly identify the understood by the Company to have matter of business which is a may be in hard copy form or in agreed to receive any communications being supported: electronic form see note 14 relating to the Companys shares made at below : the meeting.
c must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request: 71 Witan Investment Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued d must be authenticated by the i a hard copy request, signed by person or persons making it the member, stating his or her see note 14 below : and full name and address and providing evidence of the e must be received by the number of shares held, sent to Company not later than the Company Secretary, 6 weeks before the meeting.
Witan Investment Trust plc, 201 Bishopsgate, London 13.
In order to be able to exercise the members right to require: ii a scanned copy of a request, signed by the member, stating a circulation of a resolution to be his or her full name and address proposed at the meeting and providing evidence of the see note 11 : or number of shares held, sent to ITsecretariat@henderson.
b a matter of business to be dealt with Please state Witan AGM in at the meeting see note 12 the subject line of the e-mail.
the relevant request must be made by: 15.
Receipt of communications at the meeting i a member or members having a The attendance at the meeting of right to vote at the meeting and members and their proxies and holding at least 5% of the total representatives is understood by the voting rights of the Company: Company to confirm their agreement to or receive any communications made at the meeting.
ii at least 100 members having a right to vote at the meeting and 16.
Preference shareholders and holding, on average, at least debenture stockholders 100 of paid up share capital.
This notice is sent for information only to holders of the preference shares and For information on voting rights, the debenture stock who are not entitled including the total number of voting to attend or vote at the meeting.
rights, see notes 2 and 10 above.
Submission of hard copy and agreement electronic requests and The Chief Executive Officers service authentication requirements agreement will be available for inspection Where a member or members wishes to at the meeting.
request the Company to: a circulate a resolution to be proposed at the meeting see note 11 : or b include a matter of business to be dealt with at the meeting see note 12 : such request must be made in accordance with one of the following ways: 72 PRINCES STREET F I N S B POULTRY U GRESHAM ST. WORMWOOD STREET LIVERPOOL STREET R LONDON WALL Y LOTHBURY CORNHILL C LEADENHALL STREET Annual Report 2009 Annual General Meeting Venue Liverpool St Location of Merchant Taylors Hall Moorgate Merchant Taylors Hall is located at 30 Threadneedle Street in the City of London.
It is a few minutes walk from Liverpool Street Station and from Bank Underground Station.
THROGMORTON STREET Merchant Taylors Hall Bank The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 27 April 2010 at 2.30 pm.
Appendix Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting of the principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 excepted at the Companys Registered with all other provisions of its Act, which is replacing the Companies Office 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M Memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been 3AE up until the close of the AGM.
implemented in stages but is fully in Copies will also be available for the Companys Articles as of 1 October force from 1 October 2009.
In addition, inspection at the AGM venue Merchant 2009.
Resolution 12 confirms the the Shareholders Rights Regulations, Taylors Hall on Tuesday 27 April 2010, removal of these provisions and adopts which amend certain provisions of the the new Articles.
from 1.50 pm until the close of the 2006 Act relating to meetings of the meeting.
Authorised share capital and Company, came into force in August Set out below is a summary of the unissued shares 2009.
Under Resolution 12, the principal changes.
The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of Company is adopting new Articles of authorised share capital and, under the Association the new Articles which 1.
The Companys objects 2006 Act, the Memorandum no longer will reflect the changes in company law The 2006 Act significantly reduces the contains a statement of the Companys brought about by the Shareholders constitutional significance of a authorised share capital.
For existing Rights Regulations and by the provisions companys Memorandum of Association companies, this statement is deemed to of the 2006 Act which came into effect Memorandum.
The provisions be a provision of the Companys Articles on or before 1 October 2009.
The new governing the operations of the that sets out the maximum amount of Articles also include some other Company are currently set out in both share capital that may be allotted by the modernising and clarificatory its Memorandum and its Articles of Company.
The adoption by the amendments, including, where Association Articles.
Under the 2006 Company of the new Articles will have appropriate, tracking the wording of the Act, the Memorandum no longer the effect of removing this provision new model form articles for public contains an objects clause and simply relating to the maximum amount of companies contained in Schedule 3 to records the names of the subscribers and share capital.
The directors will still need the Companies Model Articles the number of shares which each to obtain authority from the Regulations 2008 the model form subscriber agreed to take in the shareholders in general meeting should Articles, which are replacing the Table Company.
Under section 28 of the 2006 they wish to allot shares.
A articles under the 1985 Act on which Act, the objects clause and all other many of the Companys current articles provisions in the Memorandum are References to authorised share capital are based.
treated as part of the Articles with effect and to unissued shares have therefore from 1 October 2009 but the Company been removed from the new Articles.
A copy of the current Articles and a copy can remove these provisions by special of the proposed new Articles that reflect resolution.
Redeemable shares Article 5 the amendments will be available for otherwise, the Companys objects will be Under the 2006 Act, the Articles need inspection during normal business hours unrestricted.
The Company is proposing not include the terms on which Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays to remove its objects clause together redeemable shares may be redeemed.
73 I R C T U E THREADNEEDLE STREET S E R T S E T O L D B R O A A D L G L S BISHO P A IRONMONGER LANE OLD JEWRY MOORGATE H COLEMAN STREET BLOMFIELD STREET G THROGMORTON AVE N I S A B Witan Investment Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The directors may determine the terms, 8.
Validity of votes Article 67 conditions and manner of redemption The Shareholders Rights Regulations Following the implementation of the of redeemable shares provided they are add a provision to the 2006 Act which Shareholders Rights Regulations, authorised to do so by the Articles.
The requires that, when a general meeting is proxies are expressly required to vote in new Articles contain such authorisation accordance with instructions given to adjourned due to lack of quorum, at and the requirement for a special least ten days notice must be given to them by members.
The new Articles resolution of shareholders to approve reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles contain a provision stating that the the terms of any redeemable shares has include amendments to the provisions Company is not required to enquire been removed accordingly.
whether a proxy or corporate dealing with notice of adjourned meetings to make them consistent with representative has voted in accordance 4.
Share certificates Article 12 this new requirement.
with instructions given to him and that The new Articles contain new provisions votes cast by a proxy or corporate for the issue of consolidated share 9.
Voting rights Article 62 representative will be valid even if he certificates, in line with the model form The Shareholders Rights Regulations has not voted in accordance with his Articles.
clarify the various powers of proxies and instructions.
representatives of corporate members in 5.
Termination of proxy authority respect of resolutions taken on a show Articles 30 and 31 Article 73 of hands.
Where a proxy has been duly The provision which gave the ability Article 73 provides that the termination appointed by one member, he has one to suspend the registration of transfers of a proxys authority should be in vote on a show of hands unless he has of shares for periods not exceeding writing, as this is required by the been appointed by more than one 30 days in any one year has been Shareholders Rights Regulations.
member, in which case the proxy has removed from the new Articles as there one vote for and one vote against if the is no ability under the 2006 Act to close 13.
Corporate representatives proxy has been appointed by more than the register.
Article 75 one member to vote for the resolution The new Articles provide that the and by more than one member to vote 6.
Authority to purchase own shares, Company can require a corporate against the resolution.
Where a consolidate and sub-divide shares, representative to produce a certified corporate member appoints and reduce share capital Article 40 copy of the resolution appointing him representatives to attend meetings on its Under the 1985 Act, a company required before permitting him to exercise his behalf, each representative duly specific authorisations in its Articles to powers.
appointed by a corporate member has purchase its own shares, to consolidate one vote on a show of hands.
The new or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its Articles contain provisions which clarify 14.
Retirement of directors by rotation share capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public these rights and also clarify how the Article 81 companies do not require specific provisions giving a proxy a second vote Article 81 continues to comply with authorisations in their Articles to on a show of hands should apply to Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which undertake these actions: but shareholder discretionary powers.
recommends that all directors should authority is still required.
Amendments be subject to re-election at intervals of have been made to the new Articles to 10.
Voting record date Article 63 not more than three years.
New Article reflect these changes.
The new Articles include a new provision 81 5 requires any non-executive which was not previously in the director who has held office for nine 7.
Participation in meetings at different Companys Articles, dealing with the years or more to put himself up for places and by electronic means method for determining which persons re-election at each annual general Article 51 are allowed to attend or vote at a general meeting.
This is in line with Combined Amendments made to the 2006 Act by meeting of the Company and how many Code provision A.
7.2. the Shareholders Rights Regulations votes each person may cast.
Under this specifically provide for the holding and new provision, when convening a 15.
Alternate directors conducting of electronic meetings.
The meeting the Company may specify a Articles 87, 89 and 91 new Articles include amendments to time, not more than 48 hours before the Article 87 now clarifies that an provide greater scope for members to time of the meeting excluding any part alternative director is entitled to be paid participate in meetings of the Company of a day that is not a working day, by expenses but not directors fees.
even if they are not present in person at which a person must be entered on the Article 89 is a new provision which the principal place where the meeting is register of members in order to have the effectively applies the provisions of being held.
The amendments allow for right to attend or vote at the meeting.
Article 85, regarding removal of members to participate not only by This new provision is in line with a directors, to alternate directors.
Article attendance at satellite meeting locations requirement for listed companies 91 c makes it clear that an alternate is but also by any other electronic means introduced by the Shareholders Rights subject to the same restrictions as the of participation.
74 Annual Report 2009 other matters or resolutions to be model form Articles, allowing the 16.
Borrowing powers Article 93 directors to delegate as they decide considered or voted on at the meeting.
A number of presentational and appropriate.
Permitted interests and voting made to the borrowing powers 18.
Directors appointments, interests Article 107 provision: Article 107 has been amended to allow a and conflicts of interest Article 100 director to vote on a resolution which Article 100, which is the provision for i Article 93 1 a a reference has relates to giving him an indemnity or been added to amounts credited dealing with conflicts of interest in the funding for expenditure incurred in as paid up on share capital to current Articles, allowing directors to be defending proceedings, provided all the clarify that these should be interested in transactions and to be an other directors have been given or are to officer of or employed by or interested in included as well as amounts be given arrangements on substantially actually paid up.
a body corporate in which the company the same terms.
This exception has is interested provided that he has ii Article 93 1 b this has been become a common exception for listed disclosed his interest in accordance with amended to refer to the total of any companies to include.
the Articles and the provisions of the credit balance on the distributable Act, has been amended so that it and undistributable reserves of the 22.
Notice when post not available contains provisions relating to Group, to clarify that all reserves of Article 127 confidential information, attendance at the Group will be relevant for the Article 127 is the article covering service Board meetings and availability of Board calculation and to reflect the of notice in the event of a postal strike.
papers to protect a director from being language used by those preparing the It has been amended to allow the in breach of duty if a conflict of interest accounts.
The reference to including Company in such circumstances to serve or potential conflict of interest arises.
share premium account, capital notices only on those members who These provisions will only apply where redemption reserve and credit receive notices via electronic means, the position giving rise to the potential balance on the profit and loss provided that the Company also puts an conflict falls within the situations account reserve has therefore been advertisement in two national covered by Article 100. deleted.
newspapers and sends a confirmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is 19.
Procedures regarding Board iii Article 93 1 the last paragraph available again within seven days of the meetings and resolutions in writing has been amended to allow the meeting.
Company also to adjust for Articles 102 & 105 The provisions of Article 102 have been variations in its capital redemption 23.
The seal Articles 136 and 137 amended to make it clear that notice of reserve since the balance sheet date Article 136 provides an alternative as the directors may reasonably a Board meeting may be given option in the absence of specific consider to be appropriate.
personally, by telephone, in hard copy instructions from the directors for or in electronic form.
The requirements iv Articles 93 1 a and 93 3 e documents other than share certificates for giving notice to directors who are additional wording has been to which the seal is affixed to be signed not in the United Kingdom have also included to clarify how any by one authorised person in the been clarified.
In order to clarify the preference shares that might be presence of a witness, in addition to procedure for written resolutions of issued should be treated for the either two directors or a director the directors, Article 105 has been amended purposes of the borrowing powers.
so that, rather than referring to a Under IFRS and UK GAAP resolution in writing by all directors, a 24.
Change of name Article 139 preference shares are now treated as resolution in writing will be valid and Under the Companies Act 1985, a a debt on a companys balance sheet effectual as if it had been passed at a company could only change its name by rather than as equity.
The meeting if executed by all the directors special resolution.
Under the Companies additional wording included in entitled to receive notice of the meeting Act 2006 a company is able to change its Articles 93 1 a and 93 3 e reflects and who would have been entitled to name by other means provided for by its this accounting treatment.
The vote and whose vote would have been Articles.
To take advantage of this effect of this wording is to exclude counted on a resolution at a meeting.
provision, the new Articles enable the the amount of any preference share directors to pass a resolution to change capital from the calculation of the 20.
Quorum Article 106 the Companys name.
Companys share capital and The proposed amendment to Article reserves and to include such 106, which deals with the quorum amount in the calculation of the requirement for Board meetings, clarifies Companys borrowings.
that a director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution on 17.
Delegation to persons or committees which he is not entitled to vote or Article 95 when his vote cannot be counted but Article 95 follows the new, simplified he may count in the quorum for the approach to delegation adopted in the 75
