Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Gas and Liquids Reserves unaudited The Groups estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the half-year and full-year reporting process and updated accordingly.
A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices and future costs.
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes available.
The Group discloses proven and probable gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery.
Reserves for Centrica-operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers.
Reserves for non-operated fields are estimated by the operator, but are subject to internal review and challenge.
Internal guidelines for reserve recognition have been revised following the acquisition of Venture Production plc in 2009.
As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an audit of the reserves, including the application of the reserves definitions, is undertaken by an independent technical auditor.
Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy and procedure standard.
The Group has estimated proven and probable gas and liquids reserves in Europe and North America.
The principal fields in Europe are South and North Morecambe, Chiswick, Cygnus, Statfjord, Ensign, Grove and Seven Seas fields associated with UK Upstream, and the Rough and York fields associated with UK Storage.
The European reserves estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and World Petroleum Congress Petroleum Resources Management System using accepted principles.
An annual reserves audit has been carried out by DeGoyler and MacNaughton.
The principal fields in North America are Medicine Hat, Entice and Bashaw, located in the province of Alberta, Canada.
The North American reserves estimates have been evaluated in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook COGEH reserves definitions and are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the World Petroleum Congress.
An annual reserves audit has been carried out by Sproule Associates Limited.
North Estimated net proven and probable reserves of gas billion cubic feet Europe America Rest of World Total 1 January 2009 1,352 375 1,727 i Revisions of previous estimates 39 16 23 ii Purchases of reserves in place 776 55 831 iii Extensions, discoveries and other additions 18 18 Production 167 37 204 31 December 2009 2,018 377 2,395 North Estimated net proven and probable reserves of liquids million barrels Europe America Rest of World Total 1 January 2009 32 4 36 i Revisions of previous estimates 3 3 ii Purchases of reserves in place 32 1 5 38 Production 9 9 31 December 2009 58 5 5 68 i Includes minor reserves revisions to a number of fields in Europe and North America.
ii Reflects the acquisition of Venture Production plc in the UK Rest of World and the Channel Lake, Medallion and Bittern Lake properties in North America.
iii Recognition of reserves associated with the York field.
Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 159 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
