Notes to the Financial Statements 10 million respectively.
The impact on deferred tax liabilities and 1.
General information the related taxation charge in 2008 was not material.
The Centrica plc is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the UK resulting impact on both basic and diluted earnings per share for under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered 2009 was an increase of 0.5p 2008: 0.2p.
The nature of the Groups operations IFRS 8, Operating Segments, effective from 1 January 2009. and principal activities are set out in note 6 and in the Directors This standard replaces IAS 14, Segment Reporting and requires Report Business Review on pages 4 to 34. segmental information reported to be based on that which the Groups Executive Committee uses internally for the purposes of The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are evaluating the performance of the Groups operating segments presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions and making decisions about resource allocation between conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included operating segments.
The Group adopted IFRS 8 with effect from in the consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the 1 January 2009.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has resulted in certain foreign currencies accounting policy set out in note 2. changes to the Groups reportable segments and the 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies information disclosed see note 6.
The measure of operating profit used by management to evaluate segment performance The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of and to allocate resources is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, certain re-measurements and before depreciation resulting from unless otherwise stated.
fair valuing property, plant and equipment to their acquisitiondate fair values on the acquisition of strategic investments as Basis of preparation described in section d below.
Additionally, adjusted operating The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in profit includes the Groups share of the results from joint accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS ventures and associates before interest and taxation.
as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Improvements to IFRSs contains amendments to various Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
existing standards, most being effective from 1 January 2009.
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the One of these improvements envisions that not all derivative historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, financial instruments be classified as current.
The Group has available-for-sale financial assets, financial instruments designated classified those derivatives held for the purpose of Energy as at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition, and the Procurement and Treasury Management as current or nonassets and liabilities of the Group pension schemes that have been current based on expected settlement dates.
Where the measured at fair value.
The carrying values of recognised assets derivative is held for proprietary energy trading, it remains and liabilities that are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are classified as current.
The Group adopted this improvement with otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair effect from 1 January 2009, prior to which all derivatives held for values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The principal trading under IAS 39 were classified as current irrespective of accounting policies adopted are set out below.
This change in presentation has resulted in recognition of non-current derivative financial assets of The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS as 316 million, current derivative financial assets of 492 million, adopted by the EU requires the use of certain critical accounting non-current derivative financial liabilities of 1,006 million and estimates.
It requires management to exercise its judgement in the current derivative financial liabilities of 1,744 million at processes of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The impact on comparatives has been involving a higher degree of judgement, complexity or areas where to report an increase in non-current derivative financial assets assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated of 674 million 2007: 424 million, a decrease in current Financial Statements are described in note 3. derivative financial assets of 564 million 2007: 322 million, an increase in non-current derivative financial liabilities of 1,372 a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective million 2007: 812 million and a decrease in current derivative in 2009 financial liabilities of 1,262 million 2007: 710 million.
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Financial IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial Statements, effective Statements, the following standards and amendments to existing from 1 January 2009.
The revised standard prohibits the standards were effective for the current period: presentation of items of income and expense in the Statement of IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs, effective from 1 January Changes in Equity, requiring non-shareholder changes in equity 2009.
The Amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing to be presented separately from shareholder changes in equity.
costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or All non-shareholder changes in equity are required to be production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial presented in a performance statement.
IAS 1 Revised permits a period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of choice as to whether to present a single performance statement that asset.
The option of immediately expensing such borrowing being a Statement of Comprehensive Income or two costs was removed.
The Group adopted IAS 23 Amendment statements being an Income Statement and a Statement of retrospectively and applied a commencement date of 1 January Comprehensive Income.
The Group has elected to present two 2008 for qualifying projects.
The adoption of IAS 23 statements: an Income Statement and a Statement of Amendment has resulted in an increase to the closing net book Comprehensive Income.
Other changes require the Statement of value of property, plant and equipment and an increase to Changes in Equity to be shown as a Primary Statement.
These deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2009 amounting to consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under 43 million 2008: 9 million and 10 million respectively, and a the revised disclosure requirements.
reduction to interest expense and increase to the tax charge for the period amounting to 34 million 2008: 9 million and 68 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 68 8 3 10 11:38:16 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Improvements to IFRSs 2009, effective for annual periods 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies beginning on or after 1 July 2009 or later, subject to EU continued endorsement.
The Improvements to IFRSs 2009 contains IFRS 7 Amendment, Improving Disclosures about Financial amendments to various existing standards, most being effective Instruments, effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: and requires enhanced disclosures in relation to financial instruments IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, effective for annual periods measured at fair value.
The amendment also requires additional beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU disclosures aimed at improving users ability to evaluate the endorsement.
The standard is part of a wider project to replace nature and extent of liquidity risk related to financial instruments.
IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard establishes two primary measurement categories The following amendments to existing standards and for financial assets: amortised cost and fair value, for which interpretations were also effective for the current period, but the classification is based on an entitys business model and the adoption of these amendments to existing standards and contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
interpretations did not have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: The impact of adopting these standards and amendments to existing standards is under assessment.
IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards liquidation: and interpretations in future periods, which were also in issue at IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time adoption of IFRS, and IAS 27 the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have Amendment, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based Payment Vesting IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective Conditions and Cancellations: for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes: IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation: periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers: IFRS 1 Revised, First-time Adoption of IFRS, effective for annual IAS 39 Amendment, Reclassification of Financial Assets: periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: Effective Date and Transition: and IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based Payment Group CashIFRIC 9 Amendment, Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives, settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for annual and IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010, subject to EU and Measurement.
endorsement: b Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet IFRS 1 Amendment, Additional Exemptions for First-time effective and that have not been early adopted by the Group Adopters, effective for annual periods commencing on or after At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the 1 January 2010, subject to EU endorsement: following standards, amendments to existing standards and IAS 32 Amendment, Classification of Rights Issues, effective for interpretations, which have not been applied in these consolidated annual periods commencing on or after 1 February 2010: Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRIC 14 Amendment, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, effective for annual 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement: periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity continues to apply the acquisition method to business Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after combinations with some significant changes.
For example, all 1 July 2010, subject to EU endorsement: payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, effective for annual value at acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
endorsement: and All acquisition related costs should be expensed.
There is a IFRS 1 Amendment, Limited Exemption from Comparative choice on an  basis to measure the IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters, effective for annual non-controlling interest in the acquiree at either fair value or at periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, subject to EU the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the endorsement.
The Group will adopt IFRS 3 Revised to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
There is no c Income Statement presentation requirement to restate previous acquisitions, therefore any The Groups Income Statement and segmental note separately impact will only affect new business combinations: identify the effects of re-measurement of certain financial IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial instruments, and items which are exceptional, in order to provide Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups 1 July 2009.
The revised standard requires the effects of all underlying performance, as described below.
transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The revised standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group will adopt IAS 27 Revised prospectively from 1 January 2010: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 69 8 3 10 11:38:16 Notes to the Financial Statements continued In addition, certain re-measurements includes the effects of 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies unwinding the acquisition-date fair values attributable to forward continued energy procurement and energy sales contracts arising on the i Certain re-measurements acquisition of Strategic Investments, as described below in section As part of its energy procurement activities, the Group enters into d. The Group has shown the effect of unwinding the acquisitiona range of commodity contracts designed to achieve security of date fair values attributable to forward energy procurement and energy supply.
These contracts comprise both purchases and energy sales contracts for these investments separately as a sales and cover a wide range of volumes, prices and timescales.
certain re-measurement as the intention is to use these energy The majority of the underlying supply comes from high-volume, supplies in the normal course of business and management long-term contracts which are complemented by short-term believes the ultimate net charge reflected before the unwind of arrangements.
These short-term contracts are entered into for the acquisition-date fair values will be consistent with the price of purpose of balancing energy supplies and customer demand and energy agreed within these contracts.
Such presentation is to optimise the price paid by the Group.
Short-term demand can consistent with the internal performance measures used by the vary significantly as a result of factors such as weather, power Group.
generation profiles and short-term movements in market prices.
ii Exceptional items Many of the energy procurement contracts are held for the As permitted by IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial purpose of receipt or delivery of commodities in accordance with Statements, certain items are presented separately.
The items that the Groups purchase, sale or usage requirements and are the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which are therefore out of scope of IAS 39.
However, a number of contracts of a non-recurring nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, are considered to be derivative financial instruments and are need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or required to be fair valued under IAS 39, primarily because their incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of terms include the ability to trade elements of the contracted the Groups underlying business performance.
Items which may be volumes on a net-settled basis.
considered exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses, business restructurings, renegotiation of significant contracts and The Group has shown the fair value adjustments arising on these asset write-downs.
contracts separately in the certain re-measurements column.
This is because the intention of management is, subject to short-term d Use of adjusted profit measures demand balancing, to use these energy supplies to meet customer The Directors believe that reporting adjusted profit and adjusted demand.
Accordingly, management believes the ultimate net earnings per share measures provides additional useful information charge to cost of sales will be consistent with the price of energy on business performance and underlying trends.
These measures agreed in these contracts and that the fair value adjustments will are used for internal performance purposes.
The adjusted reverse as the energy is supplied over the life of the contract.
This measures in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and makes the fair value re-measurements very different in nature from may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by costs arising from the physical delivery of energy in the period.
At the balance sheet date the fair value represents the difference The principal adjustments made to reported profits in arriving at between the prices agreed in the respective contracts and the adjusted profit are as follows: actual or anticipated market price of acquiring the same amount of energy on the open market.
The movement in the fair value taken Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring Strategic Investments to certain re-measurements in the Income Statement represents IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken allocating the the unwinding of the contracted volume delivered or consumed during the period, combined with the change in fair value of future cost of acquiring controlling interests and interests in associates to the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contracted energy as a result of movements in forward energy contingent liabilities.
Any difference between the cost of acquiring prices during the year.
the interest and the fair value of the acquired net assets, which These adjustments represent the significant majority of the items includes identified contingent liabilities, is recognised as included in certain re-measurements.
The fair value exercise is performed at the date of acquisition.
In addition to these, however, the Group has identified a number of comparable contractual arrangements where the difference The Directors have determined that for Strategic Investments it is between the price which the Group expects to pay or receive important to separately identify the earnings impact of increased under a contract and the market price is required to be fair valued depreciation arising from the acquisition-date fair value uplifts by IAS 39.
These additional items relate to cross-border made to property, plant and equipment over their useful economic transportation or transmission capacity, storage capacity and lives.
As a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the contracts relating to the sale of energy by-products, on which energy industry the value attributed to strategic assets is a economic value has been created which is not wholly recognised subjective judgement based on a wide range of complex variables under the requirements of IAS 39.
For these arrangements the at a point in time.
The subsequent depreciation of the fair value related fair value adjustments are also included under certain uplifts bears little relationship to current market conditions, re-measurements.
operational performance or underlying cash generation.
Management therefore reports and monitors the operational These arrangements are managed separately from proprietary performance of Strategic Investments before the impact of energy trading activities where trades are entered into speculatively depreciation on fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment for the purpose of making profits in their own right.
These and the segmental results are presented on a consistent basis.
proprietary trades are included in the results before certain re-measurements.
indd 70 8 3 10 11:38:16 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Whilst the impact of increased depreciation and related taxation 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies through unwinding the fair value uplifts to the nuclear power continued stations is included in the share of associates post-acquisition The Group has two Strategic Investments for which reported result included in overall reported Group profit for the year, the profits before certain re-measurements and exceptional items have Directors have reversed these impacts in arriving at adjusted profit been adjusted in arriving at adjusted profit and adjusted earnings from continuing operations for the year.
The acquisition-date fair per share.
These Strategic Investments relate to the acquisition of values attributed to the nuclear power stations require a subjective Venture Production plc Venture for 1,253 million, where a judgement based on a wide range of complex variables at a point controlling interest was gained on 27 August 2009 and the in time.
The subsequent depreciation bears little relationship to acquisition of the 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited British current market conditions, operational performance or underlying Energy, which owns the British Energy Group on 26 November cash generation of these assets.
This adjusted profit measure is 2009 for 2,255 million and is accounted for as an associate.
consistent with the internal measures used by the Group in reporting and monitoring performance and the segmental results i Venture are presented on a consistent basis.
Each of Ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired has been consolidated into the Group Financial The impact of unwinding energy procurement contracts and Statements at their acquisition-date fair values 27 August 2009. energy sales contracts at their acquisition-date fair values is Significant adjustments have been made to the acquired property, included within certain re-measurements and is excluded in plant and equipment to report oil and gas field interests at their arriving at adjusted profit.
acquisition-date fair values which are subsequently depreciated e British Gas Services Limited revenue recognition through the Income Statement over their respective useful Within British Gas Services Limited BGSL, included within the economic lives using the unit of production method.
Downstream UK Residential services segment, revenue on fixed Whilst the impact of unwinding the property, plant and equipment fee service contracts has been recognised on a straight-line basis at their acquisition-date fair values is included in overall reported over the contract period.
Annual contracts were divided into 12 profit for the year, the Directors have reversed the earnings impact equal amounts which were taken to income each month.
The of the increased depreciation and related taxation resulting from whole of the first months income was recorded in the calendar fair value uplifts to the acquired oil and gas interests in order to month of the sale or renewal.
arrive at adjusted profit from continuing operations after taxation.
Standard insurance accounting practice is to recognise revenue The acquisition-date fair values attributed to these interests require with regard to the incidence of risk over the period of cover.
If a subjective judgement based on a wide range of complex there is a marked unevenness in the incidence of risk over the variables at a point in time.
The subsequent depreciation bears period of cover, a basis which reflects the profile of risk should be little relationship to current market conditions, operational used.
Whilst BGSL is not an insurer, its products have some performance or underlying cash generation of these interests.
This similarities to insurance products for accounting purposes and the adjusted profit measure is consistent with the internal measures Directors consider that the accounting recognition of income used by the Group in reporting and monitoring performance and should be undertaken on a similar basis.
This is consistent with the the segmental results are presented on a consistent basis.
Groups strategy and the Group has announced plans to convert ii British Energy many of BGSLs products to insurance products over the next two Lake Acquisitions Limited was formed by EDF for the purpose of years and to effect this plan has created British Gas Insurance acquiring the controlling interest in the British Energy Group, which Limited BGIL which in 2009 received regulatory approval from the it acquired on 5 January 2009.
Financial Services Authority to sell insurance products.
While income in BGSL has been accrued on a straight-line basis, the Centrica acquired its 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited and workload undertaken under the contracts is significantly higher in thus British Energy on 26 November 2009.
As the investment in the winter.
BGSL has therefore moved to recognising revenue, still British Energy is accounted for as an investment in an associate, over the contract period, but in line with the workload and the risk IAS 28 requires that a notional fair value exercise is undertaken at under the contracts.
In making the change the deferred income the date of acquisition to allocate the cost of the investment to the has been calculated with reference to the number of days acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
IAS remaining in the contract period to reflect the point at which 28 requires investments in associates to be accounted for using contracts are entered into more precisely.
the equity method such that the Group reports its share of the associates profit or loss, which is net of interest and taxation, The impact of the new policy is to reduce revenue in 2009 by within the Groups Income Statement.
IAS 28 requires that the 2 million 2008: 2 million and brought forward reserves by Groups share of the associates profit or loss includes the effects 30 million, with an offsetting 31 million credit to deferred income.
of unwinding the fair value adjustments arising from the notional A corporation tax adjustment has been applied as a result, with a fair value exercise undertaken at acquisition date.
total 9 million reduction in the tax creditor by way of a decreased 2008 tax charge of 1 million and an increase to the brought The most significant fair value adjustments arising on the forward reserves of 8 million.
acquisition of the 20% investment in British Energy relate to the fair value uplifts made to the British Energy nuclear power stations to report the property, plant and equipment at their acquisition-date fair values and fair value uplifts made to British Energys energy procurement contracts and energy sales contracts to report these at their acquisition-date fair values.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 71 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 71 8 3 10 11:38:17 Notes to the Financial Statements continued supplier, and is included in accrued energy income within trade 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies and other receivables.
continued Basis of consolidation Proprietary energy trading: Revenue comprises both realised The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial settled and unrealised fair value changes net gains and losses Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Company its subsidiaries up to 31 December each year, and Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly incorporate the results of its share of jointly controlled entities and over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the associates using the equity method of accounting.
injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Gas purchases and gas the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to sales transactions entered into to optimise the performance of the obtain benefits from its activities.
gas storage facilities are presented net within revenue.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year Home services and fixed-fee service contracts: Revenue from are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the fixed-fee service contracts is recognised in the Income Statement effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, with regard to the incidence of risk over the life of the contract, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the associates and jointly-controlled entities to bring the accounting contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, which span policies used into line with those used by the Group.
the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term.
Amounts paid in advance All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are greater than recognised revenue are treated as deferred income, eliminated upon consolidation.
with any paid in arrears recognised as accrued income.
For one-off services, such as installations, revenue is recognised at the date of Interests in joint ventures service provision.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture which involves the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, which Gas production: Revenue associated with exploration and the Group controls jointly with its fellow venturers.
Under the equity production sales of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is method, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost recognised when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the Group the jointly controlled entity, less any impairment in value in has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant productionshare of the results of operations after tax of the jointly controlled sharing arrangements the entitlement method.
arise between production sold and the Groups share of production, this is accounted for as an overlift or underlift see Certain exploration and production activity is conducted through separate accounting policy.
Gas purchases and gas sales entered joint ventures, where the venturers have a direct interest in and into to optimise the performance of gas production facilities are jointly control the assets of the venture.
The results, assets, presented net within revenue.
liabilities and cash flows of these jointly controlled assets are included in the consolidated Financial Statements in proportion Power generation: Revenue is recognised on the basis of power to the Groups interest.
Power purchases and sales entered into to optimise the performance of power generation facilities are Interests in associates presented net within revenue.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence.
Interest income: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated assets of the associate, less any impairment in value in individual future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of to that assets net carrying value.
the results of the associate, which is net of interest and taxation Cost of sales and presents this as a single line item in arriving at Group operating Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced profit on the face of the Income Statement.
and purchased during the period taking into account the industry Revenue reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the supplier, and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be bought-in materials and services.
Revenue includes amounts receivable for goods Home services and fixed-fee service contracts cost of sales and services provided in the normal course of business, net of includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
repairs and service contracts in the period.
Energy supply: Revenue is recognised on the basis of energy supplied during the period.
Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity is estimated using historical consumption patterns, taking into account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by 72 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 72 8 3 10 11:38:17 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies different schemes as follows: continued Segmental reporting LTIS: awards up A Black-Scholes valuation augmented by a The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner to 2005 Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total consistent with the internal reporting provided to and regularly shareholder return performance reviewed by the Groups Executive Committee for the purposes LTIS: EPS awards Market value on the date of grant of evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
after 2005 Borrowing costs LTIS: TSR awards A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the Borrowing costs that arise in connection with the acquisition, after 2005 total shareholder return performance construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised and Sharesave Black-Scholes subsequently amortised in line with the depreciation of the related asset.
Borrowing costs are capitalised from the time of acquisition ESOS Black-Scholes using an adjusted option or from the beginning of construction or production until the point life assumption to reflect the possibility of at which the qualifying asset is ready for use.
Where a specific early exercise financing arrangement is in place, the specific borrowing rate for SAS, SIP, DMSS, Market value on the date of grant that arrangement is applied.
For non-specific financing RSS, ESPP and arrangements, a Group financing rate representative of the DBP weighted average borrowing rate of the Group is used.
Borrowing costs not arising in connection with the acquisition, construction Foreign currencies or production of a qualifying asset are expensed.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target programme CERT Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group UK-licensed energy suppliers are set a carbon emission reduction determines its own functional currency and items included in the target by the Government which is proportional to the size of their Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that customer base.
The current CERT programme runs from April functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are, on initial 2008 to March 2011.
The target is subject to an annual adjustment recognition, recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the throughout the programme period to take account of changes to date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities a UK-licensed energy suppliers customer base.
Energy suppliers denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the can meet the target through expenditure on qualifying projects functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet which give rise to carbon savings.
The carbon savings can be date.
All differences are included in the Income Statement for the transferred between energy suppliers.
The Group charges the year with the exception of exchange differences on foreign costs of the programme to cost of sales and capitalises costs currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment incurred in deriving carbon savings in excess of the annual target in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the as inventory which is valued at the lower of cost or net realisable disposal or partial disposal of the net investment, at which time value and which may be used to meet the carbon emissions they are recognised in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items reduction target in subsequent periods or be transferred to third that are measured in terms of historical cost in a currency other parties.
The inventory is carried on a first-in, first-out basis.
The than the functional currency of the entity concerned are translated carbon emission reduction target for the programme period is using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
allocated to reporting periods on a straight-line basis as adjusted by the annual determination process.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign subsidiary Employee share schemes undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59 and balance sheet date.
The results of foreign subsidiary undertakings, in note 35, under which it makes equity-settled share-based jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into pounds payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based sterling at average rates of exchange for the relevant period.
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value net assets and the results are transferred to the Groups foreign determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In the period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of awards event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities that will vest, and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation vesting conditions.
difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is charged or credited to the Income Statement on disposal.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to hedge foreign currency net investments in foreign subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are taken directly to reserves and are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other exchange movements are recognised in the Income Statement for the year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 73 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 73 8 3 10 11:38:17 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial continued recognition at cost.
Intangible assets include emissions trading Business combinations and goodwill schemes, renewable obligation certificates and certain exploration The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase and evaluation expenditures, the accounting policies for which are method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid dealt with separately below.
For purchased application software, and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of for example investments in customer relationship management and other assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity billing systems, cost includes contractors charges, materials, instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the  labour and  overheads.
acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are IFRS 3, Business Combinations, are recognised at their fair value in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with complete.
Amortisation commences at the point of commercial IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued deployment.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate at the date of finite lives are amortised over their useful economic life and acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the impairment losses.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in amortisation method for an intangible asset are reviewed at least the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and at each financial year end.
Changes in the expected useful life or contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits the excess is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
embodied in the asset are accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is measured and treated as changes in accounting estimates.
initially at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
Goodwill, which is recognised as an asset, is reviewed for Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income intangible asset may be impaired, either individually or at the cashgenerating unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cashassessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change generating units that expect to benefit from the business in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on combination in which the goodwill arose.
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment The amortisation period for the principal categories of intangible annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the assets are as follows: unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit or groups of cash-generating units is less than the Application software up to 10 years carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and allocated first to reduce Licences up to 20 years the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then Consents up to 25 years to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment is not Contractual customer relationships up to 20 years subsequently reversed.
Identifiable acquired brands Indefinite On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
indd 74 8 3 10 11:38:17 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies expected useful economic lives on the same basis as for owned continued assets, or where shorter, the lease term.
EU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable obligations The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed certificates for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate Granted CO emissions allowances received in a period are 2 that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
recognised initially at nominal value nil value.
Purchased CO 2 emissions allowances are recognised initially at cost purchase Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and, if price within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised when the necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances granted.
The liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to Exploration, evaluation and production assets the level of purchased allowances held, and then at the market Centrica uses the successful efforts method of accounting for price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Exploration and evaluation movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward expenditure associated with an exploration well, including contracts for the purchase or sale of CO emissions allowances acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation activities, 2 are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from are capitalised initially as intangible assets.
Certain expenditures changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
The such as geological and geophysical exploration costs are intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period expensed.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be and written off to reflect the consumption of economic benefits at successful on completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure that point in time.
including licence acquisition costs is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If Purchased renewable obligation certificates are recognised initially the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for the renewables completion of evaluation, the associated costs are expensed in the obligation is recognised based on the level of electricity supplied period in which that determination is made.
to customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the UK Government and the renewable obligation certificate All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and buyout price for that period.
The intangible asset is surrendered equipment.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation of at the end of the compliance period and written off to reflect the production facilities and include development drilling costs, project-related engineering and other technical services costs.
consumption of economic benefits at that point in time.
Property, plant and equipment, including rights and concessions Property, plant and equipment related to production activities, are depreciated from the Property, plant and equipment is included in the Balance Sheet commencement of production in the fields concerned, using at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for the unit of production method, based on all of the proven and impairment.
probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing The net carrying value of fields in production and development is the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted future is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial consideration given to acquire the asset.
An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of property, plant net present value of future net revenues.
Exploration and production and equipment such as the replacement of major parts, major assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
inspections or overhauls, are capitalised as part of the cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits Overlift and underlift will arise as a result of the expenditure and the cost can be reliably Offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced from jointly owned measured.
All other subsequent expenditure, including the costs operations are often such that it is not practical for each participant of day-to-day servicing, repairs and maintenance, is expensed to receive or sell its precise share of the overall production during as incurred.
This results in short-term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative sales, referred Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and to as overlift and underlift.
equipment, with the exception of upstream production assets, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets balance sheet date and measured at market value, with over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciation periods for the movements in the period recognised within cost of sales.
principal categories of assets are as follows: Decommissioning costs Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the Plant 5 to 20 years producing lives of fields, and storage facilities and power stations Power stations and wind farms up to 30 years at the end of the useful life of the facilities, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years Gas storage assets up to 40 years Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 75 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 75 8 3 10 11:38:18 Notes to the Financial Statements continued If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount continued of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an a decommissioning asset is recognised and included within expense.
Changes in these estimates and changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding the estimate used to determine the assets recoverable amount decommissioning asset included within property, plant and since the last impairment loss was recognised.
For gas production facilities and offshore storage impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount For power stations the decommissioning asset is amortised on does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been a straight-line basis over the useful life of the facility.
The unwinding determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset of the discount on the provision is included in the Income cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment Statement within interest expense.
loss is recognised as income immediately.
After such a reversal the depreciation or amortisation charge, where relevant, is adjusted Leases in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires useful life.
an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leases are classified discontinued operations as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant assets classified as held for sale.
and equipment at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
Management must be committed to the sale Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed reduction of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a sale within one year from the date of classification.
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major component of the Group or geographical region that has been Payments under operating leases are charged to the Income sold or is classified as held for sale are presented separately Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the from continuing operations as discontinued operations within relevant lease.
the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Inventories intangible assets excluding goodwill Inventories are valued on a weighted-average cost basis at the At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying lower of cost and estimated net realisable value after allowance for amounts of its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment redundant and slow-moving items, where applicable.
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the Take-or-pay contracts recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine Where payments are made to external suppliers under take-or-pay the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not obligations for gas not taken, they are treated as prepayments and generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the included within other receivables, as they generate future Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating economic benefits.
unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an Pensions and other post-retirement benefits indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually, and whenever The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time They are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Discount rates are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Risks specific to cash-generating units are reflected within cash flow forecasts.
indd 76 8 3 10 11:38:18 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any continued remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there charged to the Income Statement over the periods benefiting from will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the employees service.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is difference can be utilised.
amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The difference between the expected Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except return on scheme assets and the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time is where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can recognised in the Income Statement within interest income be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are The retirement benefit obligation or asset recognised in the expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been obligation of the schemes as adjusted for unrecognised past enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
service cost, and the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the present value of the defined benefit obligation or asset is tax consequences expected from the manner in which the asset determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows or liability is recovered or settled.
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are paid, Financial instruments and that have terms of maturity approximating to the terms of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the the related pension liability.
Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes fide-recognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash are charged as an operating expense as they fall due.
flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of the asset.
Provisions Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation under Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, that a Trade receivables can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the Group will Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Provision the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle is made when there is objective evidence that the Group may not the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to be able to collect the trade receivable.
Balances are written off present value where the effect is material.
Where discounting when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Income Statement within interest expense.
b Share capital Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Contracts to deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments purchase or sell energy are reviewed on a portfolio basis given the that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
fungible nature of energy, whereby it is assumed that the highest No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the priced purchase contract supplies the highest priced sales purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own contract and the lowest priced sales contract is supplied by the equity instruments.
c Cash and cash equivalents Taxation Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences For the purpose of the Group Cash Flow Statement, cash and identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill if above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
amortisation of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not d Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss.
Temporary recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction differences are differences between the carrying amount of the costs.
Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 77 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 77 8 3 10 11:38:18 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies gas, power and oil are within the scope of IAS 39 due to the fact continued that they net settle or contain written options.
Such contracts are After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other borrowings accounted for as derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised in are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from interest method, except when they are the hedged item in an changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge effective fair value hedge relationship where the carrying value is accounting are taken directly to the Income Statement for the year.
also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risks.
Such fair value movements are recognised in the The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to Income Statement.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign account any issue costs, discount or premium.
exchange and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of business.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by e Available-for-sale financial assets the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Further Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial detail on the Groups risk management policies is included within assets that are designated as available-for-sale, which are the Directors Report Governance on pages 42 to 43 and in recognised initially at fair value within the Balance Sheet.
Availablenote 4 to the Financial Statements.
for-sale financial assets are re-measured subsequently at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on whether directly in equity and presented in the Statement of they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
A derivative Comprehensive Income, until the asset is disposed of or is instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income with the Groups risk management policies and is in accordance Statement for the year.
Accrued interest or dividends arising on with established guidelines, which require the hedging relationship available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the Income to be documented at its inception, ensure that the derivative is Statement.
highly effective in achieving its objective, and require that its effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The Group also holds At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there derivatives which are not designated as hedges and are held is objective evidence that available-for-sale financial assets are for trading.
If any such evidence exists, cumulative losses recognised in equity are removed from equity and recognised All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the in profit and loss.
The cumulative loss removed from equity derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each represents the difference between the acquisition cost and current reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
previously recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis only when both a legal right of set-off exists and the Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity intention to net settle the derivative contracts is present.
investments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently reversed through the Income Statement.
Impairment losses The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering periods for which observable market data does not exist.
The fair recognised in the Income Statement for debt instruments classified as available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the value of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part to fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event published price quotations from active markets, to the extent that such observable market data exists, and in part by using valuation occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
techniques, whose inputs include data which is not based on or f Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss derived from observable markets.
Where the fair value at initial The Group holds investments in gilts which it designates as fair recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, value through profit or loss in order to reduce significantly a a fair value gain or fair value loss will arise.
This is referred to as measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise.
a day-one gain or day-one loss.
Such gains and losses are Investments are measured at fair value on initial recognition and deferred and amortised to the Income Statement based on are re-measured to fair value in each subsequent reporting period.
volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised such time observable market data becomes available.
When in the Income Statement within interest income or interest observable market data becomes available, any remaining deferred expense.
day-one gains or losses are recognised within the Income Statement.
Recognition of the gains or losses resulting from g Derivative financial instruments changes in fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions the derivative.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge for physical delivery of gas, power and oil.
A portion of these accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and are taken directly to the Income Statement and are included within continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the gross profit or interest income and interest expense.
Gains and physical commodity in accordance with the Groups expected losses arising on derivatives entered into for speculative energy sale, purchase or usage requirements, and are not within the trading purposes are presented on a net basis within revenue.
indd 78 8 3 10 11:38:18 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Net investment hedges: Hedges of net investments in foreign 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any continued gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate recognised in the Income Statement.
On disposal of the foreign derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are directly in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the Income Statement.
The closely-related nature of embedded derivatives is Nuclear activity The Groups investments in Lake Acquisitions Limited and NNB reassessed when there is a change in the terms of the contract which significantly modifies the future cash flows under the Holding Company Limited are accounted for as associates.
Where a contract contains one or more embedded following accounting policies are specific to the accounting for the nuclear activity of these associates.
derivatives, and providing that the embedded derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, the option a Fuel costs nuclear front end to fair value the entire contract may be taken and the contract will Front end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of be recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in uranium, conversion and enrichment services and fuel element the Income Statement.
All costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
h Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either b Fuel costs nuclear back end as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net Advanced Gas-cooled Reactors AGR investments in foreign operations.
Spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing and or long-term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste Fair value hedges: A derivative is classified as a fair value hedge products.
Back end fuel costs comprise a loading related cost per when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of a tonne of uranium and a rebate surcharge to this cost dependent recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from re-measuring the on the out-turn market electricity price in the year and are hedging instrument to fair value is recognised immediately in the capitalised into inventory and charged to the Income Statement Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Income Pressurised Water Reactor PWR Statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if Back end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, followed by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel.
the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group Back end fuel costs are capitalised into inventory on loading and revokes the designation.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount charged to the income statement in proportion to the amount of of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest fuel burnt.
method is used is amortised to the Income Statement.
Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and shall c Nuclear property, plant and equipment and depreciation begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted The depreciation period for the principal categories of nuclear for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
assets, which are depreciated on a straight-line basis, are as follows: Cash flow hedges: A derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is AGR power stations 4 to 13 years attributable to a particular risk either associated with a recognised PWR power station 25 years asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of production plant recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is recognised is depreciated over the period until the next outage which for AGR in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised power stations is two to three years and for the PWR power directly in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the station is 18 months.
same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction affects income, for example when the future sale of physical gas or d Nuclear Liabilities Fund NLF funding arrangements physical power actually occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost Under the arrangements in place with the Secretary of State, of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are the NLF will fund, subject to certain exceptions, British Energys transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying or liability on its recognition.
Hedge accounting is discontinued decommissioning costs.
when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or In part-consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the exercised without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for Secretary of State and the NLF, British Energy agreed to pay fixed hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
decommissioning contributions each year and 150,000 indexed At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging to RPI for every tonne of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into the instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the highly Sizewell B reactor after the date of these arrangements.
If the transaction is no longer e NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity The Government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future is recognised in the Income Statement.
shortfall on NLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities including PWR back end fuel services and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs such that the receivable equals the present value of the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 79 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 79 8 3 10 11:38:19 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Finance lease third-party power station tolling arrangement The Group has a long-term tolling arrangement with the Spalding continued power station.
The contract provides Centrica with the right to f Nuclear liabilities nominate 100% of the plant output until 2021 in return for a mix Nuclear liabilities represent provision for British Energys liabilities in of capacity payments and operating payments based on plant respect of the costs of waste management of spent fuel and availability.
Centrica holds an option to extend the tolling nuclear decommissioning.
arrangement for a further eight years, exercisable by 30 September 2020.
If extended, Centrica is granted an option to purchase the g Unburnt fuels at shutdown station at the end of this further period.
The Directors have judged Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be that the arrangement should be accounted for as a finance lease quantities of unburnt fuel in the reactors at station closure.
The as the lease term is judged to be a major part of the economic life costs relating to this unburnt fuel final core are estimated by of the power station and the present value of the minimum lease applying a long-term inflation index to the projected costs, which payments at inception date of the arrangement amounted to a are then discounted.
large part of the fair value of the power station at that time.
Details of the finance lease asset, finance lease creditor and interest 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources charges are included in notes 18, 26 and 10 respectively.
of estimation uncertainty a Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting Provision for onerous gas contract policies On 1 October 2009 an onerous contract provision was established The Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2 and Notes to for a gas purchase contract for which a two-year notice had been the Financial Statements include descriptions of key judgements served to terminate see notes 8 and 28.
This contract provided management has made in applying the Groups accounting the Group with the option to purchase gas for which a significant policies.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect capacity charge was incurred regardless of the offtake.
The on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements apart from capacity charges are unavoidable costs of the contract.
The those involving estimations which are dealt with below include the economic benefits expected to be received under the contract following: have been estimated using the Groups standard contract valuation methodology.
Management has judged that, following the presentation of certain items as exceptional notes 2 and 8: serving notice to terminate, this contract no longer forms part of the use of adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per share the Groups gas supply and that any gas delivered under the measures notes 2 and 14: and contract is delivered to minimise the overall cost of the contract the classification of energy procurement contracts as derivative during the notice period rather than to satisfy the Groups overall financial instruments and presentation as certain redemand for gas.
Therefore the expected economic benefits have measurements notes 2, 4, 8 and 22. been estimated based on market prices rather than being valued on a portfolio basis as explained in note 2.
In addition to those described above, management has made the following key judgements in applying the Groups accounting Business combinations and acquisitions purchase price policies that have the most significant effect on the Groups allocations Financial Statements.
For business combinations and acquisitions of associates and joint ventures, IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken Wind farm partial disposal GLID Wind Farm TopCo Limited allocating the purchase price cost of acquiring controlling The Group disposed of 50% of the equity voting share capital interests and interests in associates to the fair value of the of GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited GLID, the owner of Glens acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
of Foudland and Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms on Any difference between the cost of acquiring the interest and 11 December 2009 see note 38. the fair value of the acquired net assets, which includes identified As part of this disposal, the Group contracted to purchase 100% contingent liabilities, is recognised as acquired goodwill.
The fair of the power output and 50% of the renewable obligation value exercise is performed at the date of acquisition.
As a result certificates produced by these wind farms under a 15-year offtake of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy industry the agreement.
The pricing of this arrangement was on an arms purchase price allocation exercise and acquisition-date fair value length basis.
The Group also contracted to provide management determinations require subjective judgements based on a wide and transitional support services to GLID as directed by their board range of complex variables at a point in time.
A shareholders agreement was also put in all available information to make the fair value determinations.
place which included a number of reserved matters and provides Business combinations are set out in note 37. for joint management of the major decisions of the company.
EU Emissions Trading Scheme The Directors have judged that the disposal of equity voting share The Group has been subject to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme capital is a loss of control over the financial and operating policies EU ETS since 1 January 2005.
IFRIC 3, Emission Rights was of GLID.
The offtake agreement pricing together with the other withdrawn by the IASB in June 2005, and has not yet been arrangements in place mean that the majority of the benefits and replaced by definitive guidance.
The Group has adopted an residual risks of owning the wind farms reside with GLID and not accounting policy which recognises CO2 emissions liabilities when Centrica.
Accordingly, the remaining investment in GLID is equity the level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances granted by accounted as an investment in a joint venture see note 19.
The the Government in the period.
The liability is measured at the cost Directors have judged also that the 15-year offtake agreement is of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances not a leasing arrangement.
This is because the Group is not held, and then at market price of allowances ruling at the balance purchasing substantially all of the economic output of the wind sheet date.
Movements in the liability are reflected within operating farm.
The contract is instead assessed as falling within the scope profit.
Forward contracts for sales and purchases of allowances of IAS 39 and is being marked to market.
are measured at fair value.
indd 80 8 3 10 11:38:19 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Gas and liquids reserves 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves of estimation uncertainty continued is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of Petroleum revenue tax PRT producing gas and liquids property, plant and equipment as The definitions of an income tax in IAS 12, Income Taxes, have led well as being a significant estimate affecting decommissioning management to judge that PRT should be treated consistently with estimates and impairment calculations.
The factors impacting other income taxes.
The charge for the year is presented within gas and liquids estimates, the process for estimating reserve taxation on profit from continuing operations in the Income quantities and reserve recognition are described on page 159.
Deferred amounts are included within deferred tax The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable reserves assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining book b Key sources of estimation uncertainty value of producing assets over the expected future production.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised downwards, of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying immediate write-down impairment of the assets book value.
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, Decommissioning costs are discussed below.
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the Revenue recognition unread gas and electricity meters producing lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based on Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter balance sheet date.
Provision is made for the estimated cost of reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity decommissioning at the balance sheet date.
The payment dates comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
It is estimated through of total expected future decommissioning costs are uncertain and the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a dependent on the lives of the facilities, but are currently anticipated customer by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, to be between 2010 and 2050, with the substantial majority of the load forecasts and the differences between actual meter reads costs expected to be paid between 2015 and 2030. being returned and system estimates.
Actual meter reads continue Provisions are determined for the estimated costs of to be compared to system estimates between the balance sheet decommissioning British Energys nuclear power stations and the date and the finalisation of the accounts.
An assessment is also costs of waste management and spent fuel.
Various arrangements made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate and indemnities are in place with the Secretary of State with economic benefits which will flow to the Group, including bill respect to these costs, as explained in note 2. cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets revenue is not recognised.
The judgements applied, and the The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite-lived assumptions underpinning these judgements, are considered intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis in to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions accordance with the Groups accounting policy, as described in would have an impact on the amount of revenue recognised.
This requires the determination of the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and indefinite-lived Industry reconciliation process cost of sales intangibles are allocated.
The recoverable amounts are determined Industry reconciliation procedures are required as differences arise by either estimating the value in use of those cash-generating units between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group or, in the case of the Upstream UK Gas production and deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated development cash-generating unit, determining the fair value less quantity industry system operators deem the individual suppliers, costs to sell of the cash-generating unit.
Value in use calculations including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
Difference in require the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash deemed supply is referred to as imbalance.
The reconciliation flows to be derived from the cash-generating units and to choose procedures can result in either a higher or lower value of industry a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of deemed supply than has been estimated as being supplied to those cash flows.
The fair value less costs to sell methodology is customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher deemed more appropriate for the Upstream UK Gas production value of deemed supply.
The Group then reviews the difference to and development cash-generating unit as it is based on post-tax ascertain whether there is evidence that its estimate of amounts cash flows arising from each field within the cash-generating unit, supplied to customers is inaccurate or whether the difference which is consistent with the approach taken by management in arises from other causes.
The Groups share of the resulting determining the economic value of the underlying assets.
Fair value imbalance is included within commodity costs charged to cost of less costs to sell is determined by discounting the post-tax cash sales.
Management estimates the level of recovery of imbalance flows expected to be generated by the gas production and which will be achieved either through subsequent customer billing development assets within the Upstream UK Gas production and or through developing industry settlement procedures.
development cash-generating unit, net of associated selling costs, Determination of fair values energy derivatives and takes into account assumptions market participants would use Derivative contracts are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value, in estimating fair value.
Further detail on impairments arising and with changes in fair value recorded in either the Income Statement the assumptions used in determining the value in use and fair value or the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Fair values of energy less costs to sell calculations is provided in note 17. derivatives are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques.
More detail on the assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in note 29.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 81 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 81 8 3 10 11:38:19 Notes to the Financial Statements continued and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources The key assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based on of estimation uncertainty continued the Groups best estimate of the variables that will determine the Impairment of power generation and upstream gas assets ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, on which Power generation and upstream gas assets are assessed for further detail is provided in note 36. indicators of impairment at each reporting date in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as described in note 2.
Financial risk management indicator of impairment exists, an assessment of the recoverable The Groups normal operating, investing and financing activities amount of the asset is required to be made.
Indicators of expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including impairment for these assets may include, but are not limited to, commodity price risk, volumetric risk, currency risk, interest rate the following: risk and equity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management process is designed to identify, manage reductions in reserve estimates or profiles of production: and mitigate business risk, which includes, among others, financial declines in long-term commodity prices: risk.
Further detail on the Groups overall risk management increases in capital expenditure or acceleration of known capital process is included within the Directors Report Governance expenditure: on pages 42 to 43. significant unplanned outages or problems with operational performance: and During 2009, the markets continued to experience the volatility in changes in regulatory or tax environments.
commodity prices and shortage of available credit which was seen in 2008.
Many of the markets in which the Group operates have The recoverable amount of power generation and upstream gas continued to experience economic contraction.
Despite these assets is assessed with reference to either each individual assets difficult market conditions, the Group continues to manage these value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use is risks in accordance with its financial risk management processes.
based on the pre-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the asset and is dependent on views of forecast generation Financial risk management is overseen by the Group Financial Risk production, forecast commodity prices using market prices where Management Committee GFRMC according to objectives, targets available and internal estimates for the remainder of the period and policies set by the Board.
Commodity price risk management and the timing and extent of capital expenditure.
The fair value less is carried out in accordance with individual business unit financial costs to sell is determined by using evidence from recent risk management policies, as approved by the GFRMC and the acquisitions for similar assets in the local oil and gas market, or by Board.
Treasury risk management, including management of discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated, net currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk and liquidity risk of associated selling costs, taking into account assumptions is carried out by a central Group Treasury function in accordance market participants would use in estimating fair value.
with the Groups financing and treasury policy, as approved by For gas fired power stations, which have a high degree of the Board.
The credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with the Groups production flexibility, the value in use calculation also includes a counterparty credit policy.
Downstream credit risk management scenario-based statistical assessment of the additional value which can be generated from optimising production to take advantage of is carried out in accordance with individual business unit credit policies.
Pre-tax cash flows for the first three years are based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year Market risk management business plans and thereafter are estimated on a consistent basis Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market to reflect cash flows up to the date of cessation of operation of the prices commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates asset.
Pre-tax cash flows are discounted using an appropriate and equity prices.
The level of market risk to which the Group is pre-tax discount rate which is derived from the Groups weighted exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, average cost of capital.
Discount rates are based on current expectations of future price or market rate movements and the market assessments of the time value of money and are derived composition of the Groups physical asset and contract portfolios.
from the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
a Commodity price risk management Further details of impairments arising and the carrying values of the The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy Groups power generation and upstream gas assets are included procurement, downstream and proprietary energy trading within note 18. activities.
Trade and other receivables provisions for credit losses i Energy procurement and downstream activities The methodology for determining provisions for credit losses on The Groups energy procurement and downstream activities trade and other receivables and the level of such provisions are set consist of downstream positions, equity gas and liquids out in note 21.
The estimates and assumptions used to determine production, equity power generation, bilateral procurement and the level of provisions are reviewed periodically.
Although the sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales contracts and provisions recognised are considered appropriate, the use of derivative positions taken on with the intent of securing gas and different assumptions or changes in economic conditions could power for the Groups downstream customers in the UK, Europe lead to changes in the provisions and therefore impact profit or and North America from a variety of sources at an optimal cost.
The Group actively manages commodity price risk by optimising its asset and contract portfolios and making use of volume flexibility.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit procurement and downstream activities because the cost of schemes is determined separately for each scheme under the procuring gas and electricity to serve its downstream customers projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains varies with wholesale commodity prices.
The risk is primarily that 82 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 82 8 3 10 11:38:20 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The carrying value of energy contracts used in energy procurement 4.
Financial risk management continued and downstream activities at 31 December 2009 is disclosed in market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that note 22.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially changes in the fair value or future cash flows of financial reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable.
instruments associated with the Groups energy procurement and downstream activities as a result of changes in commodity prices, The Group is also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of an is provided below in section e. uncertain consumption profile arising from a range of factors, including weather, energy consumption changes and economic ii Proprietary energy trading climate.
The Groups proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on The Group uses specific volumetric limits to manage the exposure with the intent of benefiting in the short term from changes in to market prices associated with the Groups energy procurement market prices or differences between buying and selling prices.
and downstream activities to an acceptable level.
Volumetric limits The Group conducts its trading activities over the counter and are supported by Profit at Risk PaR and Value at Risk VaR through exchanges in the UK, North America and continental methodologies in the UK and a VaR methodology in North America Europe.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result and Europe to measure the Groups exposure to commodity price of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its risk.
Limits are also set on PaR and VaR measurements as a trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with changes in market further control over exposure to market prices.
PaR measures the prices for commodities.
estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement of a commodity price for a given The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the confidence level, over the remaining term of the position or commodity price risk exposure associated with the Groups contract portfolio.
VaR measures the estimated potential loss for a proprietary energy trading activities.
The VaR used measures the given confidence level over a predetermined holding period.
The estimated potential loss for a 95% confidence level over a one-day standard confidence level used is 95%.
In addition, stress tests are holding period.
The holding period used is based on market regularly performed to evaluate the impact of substantial liquidity and the number of days the Group would expect it to take movements in commodity prices.
to close out a trading position.
The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations associated with the Groups entire energy procurement and that arise from the assumptions used in the VaR analysis.
Only certain of the Groups energy assumes that the future will behave like the past and that the procurement and downstream contracts constitute financial Groups trading positions can be unwound or hedged within the instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, while the Group predetermined holding period.
Furthermore, the use of a 95% manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes and non-financial energy procurement and downstream contracts, in value that might occur beyond this confidence level.
it is the notional value of energy contracts being carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the Groups energy The VaR, before taxation, associated with the Groups proprietary procurement and downstream activities to commodity price risk energy trading activities at 31 December 2009 was 2 million according to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The carrying value of energy contracts used because energy contracts that are financial instruments under in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2009 is IAS 39 are accounted for on a fair value basis and changes in fair disclosed in note 22. value immediately impact profit or equity.
Conversely, energy b Currency risk management contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39 are The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency accounted for as executory contracts and changes in fair value denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary do not immediately impact profit or equity, and as such, are not assets and liabilities transactional exposure and on its net exposed to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7.
So whilst investments in foreign operations translational exposure.
the PaR or VaR associated with energy procurement and downstream contracts outside the scope of IAS 39 is monitored i Transactional currency risk for internal risk management purposes, only those energy The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are within the scope of the transactions denominated in currencies other than the underlying IFRS 7 disclosure requirements.
functional currency of the commercial operation transacting.
The Groups primary functional currencies are pounds sterling in the The net loss of 71 million 2008: loss of 1,331 million on the UK, Canadian dollars in Canada, US dollars in the US, Norwegian re-measurement of energy contracts largely represents unrealised kroner in Norway and euros in Europe.
The risk is that the mark-to-market loss created by gas and power purchase functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of contracts which are priced above the current wholesale market movements in exchange rates.
Transactional exposure arises from value of energy.
This loss is calculated with reference to forward the Groups energy procurement activities in the UK and in energy prices and therefore the extent of the economic loss arising Canada, where a proportion of transactions are denominated in over the life of these contracts is uncertain, and entirely dependent euros or US dollars and on certain capital commitments upon the level of future wholesale energy prices.
Generally, subject denominated in foreign currencies.
In addition, in order to optimise to short-term balancing, the ultimate net charge to cost of sales the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign will be consistent with the price of energy agreed in these currency denominated debt, primarily in US dollars, New Zealand contracts and the fair value adjustments will reverse as the energy dollars, euros or Japanese yen.
is supplied over the life of the contract.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 83 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 83 8 3 10 11:38:20 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Financial risk management continued e Sensitivity analysis A financial instrument is defined in IAS 32 as any contract that It is the Groups policy to hedge all material transactional gives rise to a financial asset of one entity effectively the exposures using forward contracts to fix the functional currency contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December another entity and a financial liability effectively the contractual 2009, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or probable entity or equity instrument effectively a residual interest in the forecast transactions 2008: nil, other than foreign currency assets of an entity of another.
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a borrowings used to hedge translational exposures.
sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in market ii Translational currency risk variables commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of rates as a result of changes in the fair value or cash flows its net investments in North America and Europe.
The risk is that associated with the Groups financial instruments.
The sensitivity the pounds sterling value of the net assets of foreign operations analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at will decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups 31 December 2009 assuming that a reasonably possible change in policy is to protect the pounds sterling book value of its net the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 2009 and investments in foreign operations, subject to certain targets been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to monitored by the GFRMC, by holding foreign currency debt, show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on profit entering into foreign currency derivatives, or a mixture of both.
or loss and equity to the next annual reporting date.
Reasonably During the year, the Group reviewed the existing translational possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity currency risk management procedures.
This review took into analysis are based on implied volatilities, where available, or consideration the cash impact of any hedging activity as well historical data for energy prices and foreign exchange rates.
as the risk to the net asset numbers in the Groups Financial Reasonably possible changes in interest rates are based on Statements.
This resulted in a reduction in the overall proportion of management judgement and historical experience.
net investments which are hedged for translational currency risk.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December The effect of this change is an increased risk of changes to the 2009 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of sterling value of net investments in foreign operations, which is fixed to floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of reported through reserves, but a reduced risk of cash flow volatility energy contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of from rolling forward hedge transactions.
financial instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge The Group measures and manages the currency risk associated designations in place at 31 December 2009 are all constant.
with all transactional and translational exposures.
In contrast, Excluded from this analysis are all non-financial assets and IFRS 7 requires disclosure of currency risk arising on financial liabilities and energy contracts that are not financial instruments instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional under IAS 39.
The sensitivity to foreign exchange rates relates only currency of the commercial operation transacting only.
As a result, to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes the Groups net than the functional currency of the commercial operation investments in North America and Europe as well as foreign transacting, and excludes the translation of the net assets of currency denominated forecast transactions and firm foreign operations to pounds sterling, but includes the commitments.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the corresponding impact of net investment hedges.
sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be changes in the fair value or future cash flows of foreign currency used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily denominated financial instruments as a result of changes in foreign indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced exchange rates is provided below in section e. because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is changing c Interest rate risk management constantly as the Groups portfolio of commodity, debt and foreign In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its currency contracts changes.
Changes in fair values or cash flows operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated fair value of fixed rate borrowings and the cash flows associated because the relationship between the change in market variable with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest and the change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear.
The Groups policy is to manage the interest rate risk on addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on long-term borrowings by ensuring the exposure to floating interest fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering rates remains within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating interest rate derivatives.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to actions that would be taken by the Group.
The sensitivity analysis illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and provided below excludes the impact of proprietary energy trading performance to changes in interest rates is provided below in assets and liabilities because the VaR associated with the Groups section e. proprietary energy trading activities has already been provided above in section a. d Equity price risk management The Group is exposed to equity price risk because certain available-for-sale financial assets, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme, are linked to equity indices note 36.
Investments in equity indices are inherently exposed to less risk than individual equity investments because they represent a naturally diverse portfolio.
Note 36 details the Groups other retirement benefit assets and liabilities.
indd 84 8 3 10 11:38:20 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 4.
Financial risk management continued The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2009 2008 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change change Energy prices Base price i in variable Base price i in variable UK gas p therm 41 -10 56 -14 UK power MWh 41 -5 53 -9 UK coal US$ tonne 99 -20 93 -24 UK emissions tonne 13 -3 16 -4 UK oil US$ bbl 86 -19 58 -15 North American gas USc therm 65 -11 70 -16 North American power US$ MWh 61 -5 60 -9 European power MWh 53 -5 64 -9 i The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.
2009 2008 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit equity profit equity Incremental profit loss m m m m UK energy prices combined increase decrease 38 38 30 30 326 322 90 90 North American energy prices combined increase decrease 46 46 21 21 25 25 27 27 European energy prices combined increase decrease 14 14 44 44 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in interest rates on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2009 2008 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on in variable profit equity in variable profit equity Interest rates and incremental profit loss % m m % m m UK interest rates -1.0 5 9 16 19 -1.0 16 16 19 23 US interest rates -1.0 6 7 7 9 -1.0 2 2 12 14 Canadian interest rates -1.0 4 4 -1.0 Euro interest rates -1.0 12 12 -1.0 3 3 Japanese interest rates -1.0 13 17 -1.0 17 23 New Zealand interest rates -1.0 2 2 -1.0 2 2 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in foreign currency rates relative to pounds sterling on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2009 2008 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on Foreign exchange rates and incremental in variable profit equity in variable profit equity profit loss % m m % m m US dollar -10 43 51 4 2 -10 46 45 12 12 Canadian dollar -10 3 10 10 -10 3 1 31 28 Danish krone -10 27 33 -10 Euro -10 3 8 14 9 -10 3 2 20 17 Japanese yen -10 1 -10 3 2 New Zealand dollar -10 -10 10 10 Norwegian krone -10 1 1 5 6 -10 4 3 Swiss franc -10 3 3 -10 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 85 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 85 8 3 10 11:38:20 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to 4.
Financial risk management continued manage the exposure to credit risk associated with both business Credit risk management and residential customers.
In other cases, credit risk is monitored Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterpartys and managed by grouping customers according to method of inability or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities.
During 2009, there has Liquidity risk management and going concern been a continuing shortage of available credit in the market.
In Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial addition, many of the markets in which the Group operates are obligations as they fall due.
The Group does experience significant experiencing economic contraction.
As a result of these external movements in its liquidity position due primarily to the seasonal market factors, the Group is encountering an increase in credit risk nature of its business and margin cash arrangements associated compared with that experienced at the end of 2008.
The Group with certain wholesale commodity contracts.
To mitigate this risk has taken steps to tighten downstream credit policies, including the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains significant the tightening of credit scores in customer management committed facilities.
The Groups liquidity position has remained processes, whilst continuing to manage credit risk in accordance strong throughout 2009 despite movements in commodity prices.
with financial risk management processes.
At 31 December 2009, the Groups continuing operations were Note 22 provides further detail of the Groups exposure to credit holding nil 2008: 43 million of cash as collateral against risk on derivative financial instruments, note 21 provides detail of counterparty balances, and had pledged 631 million 2008: 669 the Groups exposure to credit risk on trade and other receivables, million of cash as collateral, principally under margin calls to cover note 24 provides detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on exposure to mark-to-market positions on derivative contracts, cash and cash equivalents and note 29 provides the carrying value representing a net cash outflow during the year of 79 million of all financial assets representing the Groups maximum exposure 2008: 556 million outflow, write-offs of pledged balances of nil to credit risk.
2008: 22 million, acquisition of cash collateral balances held of nil 2008: 33 million and exchange losses of 59 million 2008: a Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities 100 million gain.
15 million of cash collateral pledged was Counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual transferred into assets held for sale 2008: nil.
Within assets held counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to for sale was a net 26 million 2008: nil cash inflow of collateral approved limits.
The majority of significant exposures are with and the closing collateral held pledged was 17 million 6 million counterparties rated AA3 or better.
The Group uses master 2008: nil.
Generally, cash paid or received as collateral is netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments interest-bearing and is free from any restriction over its use by with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist.
addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of bank and parent company The Group has a number of treasury policies to monitor and guarantees and letters of credit.
Cash forecasts identifying the Groups liquidity requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested 100% of the Groups credit risk associated with its treasury, for different scenarios, including, but not limited to, reasonably trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in possible increases or decreases in commodity prices and the related energy industries or with financial institutions.
The Group potential cash implications of a credit rating downgrade.
The measures and manages the credit risk associated with the Groups Group seeks to ensure that sufficient financial headroom exists entire treasury, trading and energy procurement portfolio.
In for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Groups ability to contrast, IFRS 7 defines credit risk as the risk that one party to continue as a going concern.
It is the Group's policy to maintain a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party committed facilities and or available surplus cash resources of at by failing to discharge an obligation and requires disclosure of least 1,200 million, to raise at least 75% of its net debt excluding information about the exposure to credit risk arising from financial non-recourse debt in the long-term debt market and to maintain instruments only.
Only certain of the Groups energy procurement an average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As portfolio greater than five years.
a result, whilst the Group manages the credit risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement contracts, it is At 31 December 2009, the Group held 1,294 million 2008: the carrying value of financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 2,939 million of cash and cash equivalents and had undrawn note 29 that represents the maximum exposure to credit risk in committed credit facilities of 2,083 million 2008: 1,380 million.
accordance with IFRS 7 because credit losses associated with 148% 2008: 683% of the Groups net debt has been raised in the contracts that are not recognised on the Balance Sheet will not long-term debt market and the average term to maturity of the be recognised as such in the Income Statement.
long-term debt portfolio was 9.6 years 2008: 9.3 years.
b Downstream activities The relatively high level of available cash resources and undrawn In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by committed bank borrowing facilities has enabled the Directors to checking a companys creditworthiness and financial strength both conclude that the Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a before commencing trade and during the business relationship.
The statement of going concern is included in the For residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally Directors' Report Governance, on page 43. before commencing trade by reviewing an appropriate mix of Maturities of derivative financial liabilities, trade and other payables, internal and external information to determine the payment bank borrowings and provisions are provided in notes 22, 25, 26 mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level.
Details of commitments and contingencies Certain customers will only be accepted on a prepayment basis are provided in note 39. or with a security deposit.
indd 86 8 3 10 11:38:21 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 5.
Capital management The Groups objective when managing capital is to maintain a balance of debt and equity which maintains an optimal level of financial risk.
It achieves this by maintaining a capital structure and credit rating which are appropriate for the underlying risk within the business operations.
An additional factor to consider is that, in a number of areas in which the Group operates, the Groups strong capital structure and good credit standing are important elements of the Groups competitive position.
At 31 December 2009, the Groups long-term credit rating was A3 stable outlook for Moodys Investor Services Inc. 2008: A3 stable outlook and Astable outlook for Standard & Poors Rating Services 2008: A negative outlook.
During 2009, Standard & Poors moved Centrica from A to Adue to the increased debt levels resulting from the investment in British Energy, as expected by Centrica.
The Group monitors capital, using a medium-term view of three to five years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios generally used by industry and by the credit rating agencies.
This includes monitoring gearing ratios, interest cover and cash flow to debt ratios.
The Groups capital structure is managed against these ratios as required to maintain strong credit ratings.
The Group is not subject to externally-imposed capital requirements but, as is common for most companies, the level of debt that can be raised is restricted by the Companys Articles of Association.
Net debt is limited to the greater of 5 billion and a gearing ratio of three times adjusted capital and reserves.
This restriction can be amended or removed by the shareholders of the Company passing a special resolution.
Segmental analysis Centricas operating segments are those used internally by management to run the business and make decisions.
Centricas operating segments are based on products and services provided in each geographical area.
The operating segments are also the Groups reportable segments.
The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are: Segment Description Downstream UK: Residential energy supply The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK Residential services Installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central heating, plumbing and drains, gas appliances and kitchen appliances, including the provision of fixed-fee maintenance breakdown service and insurance contracts in the UK Business energy supply and services The supply of gas and electricity and provision of energy-related services to business customers in the UK Upstream UK: Upstream gas and oil Production and processing of gas and oil and the development of new fields to grow reserves Power generation Generation and optimisation of power from gas, nuclear and wind sources Industrial and commercial Management, optimisation and scheduling of wholesale and industrial gas sales and gas procurement contracts Proprietary energy trading Trading in physical and financial energy contracts Storage UK Gas storage in the UK North America: Residential energy supply The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in North America Business energy supply The supply of gas, electricity and energy solutions to business customers in North America Residential and business services Installation and maintenance of Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC equipment, water heaters and the provision of breakdown services in North America Upstream and wholesale energy Gas production, power generation and procurement and trading activities in the North American wholesale energy markets Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 87 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 87 8 3 10 11:38:21 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued The measure of profit used by the Centrica Executive Committee is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements refer to note 8, before additional depreciation resulting from any fair value uplifts on Strategic Investments refer to notes 2 and 14 and including the results from joint ventures and associates which are included before interest and tax.
All transactions between segments are on an arms length basis.
2008 restated Year ended 31 December 2009 i, ii Less interLess intersegment segment Gross segment revenue Group Gross segment revenue Group revenue iii, iv revenue revenue iii, iv revenue a Revenue m m m m m m Continuing operations: i Residential energy supply 7,843 7,843 7,779 7,779 ii Residential services 1,406 1,406 1,347 1,347 Business energy supply and services 3,316 3,316 3,063 3,063 Downstream UK 12,565 12,565 12,189 12,189 iii Upstream gas and oil 1,240 689 551 1,784 1,318 466 iii Power generation 1,317 167 1,150 1,264 595 669 i, iii Industrial and commercial 1,907 555 1,352 1,940 486 1,454 iii, iv Proprietary energy trading 52 11 41 61 12 49 Upstream UK 4,516 1,422 3,094 5,049 2,411 2,638 iii Storage UK 266 70 196 280 59 221 Residential energy supply 2,644 2,644 2,652 2,652 Business energy supply 2,491 2,491 2,015 2,015 Residential and business services 406 406 375 375 iii Upstream and wholesale energy 656 89 567 873 91 782 i North America 6,197 89 6,108 5,915 91 5,824 23,544 1,581 21,963 23,433 2,561 20,872 Discontinued operations: i European Energy note 38 2,357 2,357 472 1 471 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38.
The revenues of the Groups operations in Germany are reported within the Upstream UK Industrial and commercial operations segment.
Also restated to present the revenues of British Gas New Energy within Downstream UK Residential energy supply and to split North America into four segments.
ii Restated to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2. iii Inter-segment revenue reflects the level of revenue generated on sales to other Group segments on an arms length basis.
iv The external revenue presented for Proprietary energy trading comprises both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Inter-segment revenue arising in Proprietary energy trading represents the recharge of brokerage fees to other Group segments.
indd 88 8 3 10 11:38:21 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 6.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 31 December 2008 2009 restated i, ii b Operating profit m m Continuing operations: i Residential energy supply 595 376 ii Residential services 233 193 Business energy supply and services 183 143 Downstream UK 1,011 712 iii Upstream gas and oil 444 1,164 iii Power generation 147 11 i Industrial and commercial 93 331 Proprietary energy trading 27 37 Upstream UK 525 881 Storage UK 168 195 Residential energy supply 94 137 Business energy supply 34 11 Residential and business services 18 16 Upstream and wholesale energy 7 51 i North America 153 215 Adjusted operating profit segment operating profit before exceptional items, certain iv re-measurements and impact of fair value uplifts from Strategic Investments 1,857 2,003 Share of joint ventures associates interest and taxation 11 3 v Other 5 8 iii Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment Venture 20 iii Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment net of taxation associates British Energy 7 1,814 1,992 vii Exceptional items note 8 568 Certain re-measurements included within gross profit note 8 62 1,331 Certain re-measurements of associates energy contracts net of taxation note 8 9 Operating profit after exceptional items and certain re-measurements 1,175 661 Discontinued operations: i, vi, vii European Energy note 38 8 52 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38.
The operating profit of the Groups operations in Germany is reported within the Upstream UK Industrial and commercial operations segment.
Also restated to present the operating profit of British Gas New Energy within Downstream UK Residential energy supply, to split North America into four segments and to include the operating profit of joint ventures and associates pre-interest and tax.
ii Restated to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2. iii See note 2 and note 14 for explanation of the depreciation on fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring Strategic Investments.
iv Includes results of equity-accounted interests before interest, taxation, certain re-measurements and depreciation on fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on Strategic Investments.
v Other comprises a 1 million loss 2008: 8 million loss relating to Corporate Centre costs not recharged to segments and a 4 million loss 2008: nil relating to an inter-segment transaction between a Proprietary trading operation and a non-proprietary energy trading operation.
vi Represents loss after taxation and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements attributable to equity holders of the parent.
This is the measure of results of discontinued operations that is reported regularly to the Groups Executive Committee.
vii Exceptional impairment charges of 149 million 2008: nil for continuing operations and 24 million 2008: 67 million for discontinued operations were recognised in 2009.
The charges for continuing operations relate to Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil 44 million, Upstream UK Power generation 35 million, North America Upstream and wholesale energy 44 million, North America Residential energy supply 19 million and North America Residential and business services 7 million.
The charges for discontinued operations relate to Oxxio in The Netherlands.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 89 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 89 8 3 10 11:38:21 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Share of results of joint ventures and associates Depreciation of property, Amortisation, write-downs and Year ended 31 December before interest and taxation plant and equipment i impairments of intangibles 2008 2008 2008 2009 restated ii 2009 restated ii 2009 restated ii c Included within adjusted operating profit m m m m m m Continuing operations: ii Residential energy supply 8 10 22 27 Residential services 12 13 10 5 Business energy supply and services 2 3 7 8 Downstream UK 22 26 39 40 i, iii Upstream gas and oil 353 280 16 21 i, iii, iv Power generation 28 12 112 101 36 31 ii Industrial and commercial 1 1 6 2 Proprietary energy trading Upstream UK 28 12 466 382 58 54 Storage UK 23 22 Residential energy supply 2 2 6 5 Business energy supply 1 2 3 1 Residential and business services 2 2 2 3 Upstream and wholesale energy 71 65 2 2 ii North America 76 71 13 11 v Other 12 12 15 12 28 12 599 513 125 117 Discontinued operations: ii European Energy note 38 2 3 25 2 17 12 i Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is stated before depreciation of fair value uplifts for Strategic Investments.
ii Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation as explained in note 38.
The operating profit of the Groups operations in Germany is reported within the Industrial and commercial operations segment.
Also restated to present the operating profit of British Gas New Energy within Residential energy supply, to split North America into four segments and to include the operating profit of joint ventures and associates pre interest and taxation.
iii During 2009, impairment charges of 35 million 2008: 31 million were incurred in the Power generation segment relating to emissions allowances and 16 million 2008: 21 million in the Upstream gas and oil segment relating to exploration and evaluation assets, as described in note 17. iv Share of results of joint ventures and associates is before interest, certain re-measurements, depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on Strategic Investments and taxation.
v Other comprises depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation and write-downs of intangibles on Corporate Centre assets which are charged out to other Group segments.
indd 90 8 3 10 11:38:22 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 6.
Restated to present the assets and liabilities of British Gas New Energy within Downstream UK Residential energy supply and to split North America into four segments.
Also restated to present the deferred and current tax assets and liabilities attributable to each operating segment.
ii Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment and to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2. iii Segment assets and liabilities include allocated current and deferred tax balances.
iv Includes tax allocated to non-operating assets liabilities and inter-segment offsets of tax assets and liabilities, as permitted by IAS 12. v Assets and liabilities of disposal groups are classified as held for sale, as explained in note 38.
Prior period balances for discontinued operations were reported as European Energy.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups operations in Germany, which were previously also included within European Energy, are reported within the Upstream UK Industrial and commercial operations segment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 91 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 91 8 3 10 11:38:22 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Capital employed represents the investment required to operate each of the Groups segments.
Capital employed is used by the Group to calculate the return on capital employed for each of the Groups segments as part of the Groups managing for value concept.
Additional value is created when the return on capital employed exceeds the cost of capital.
Net segment assets of the Group can be reconciled to the Groups capital employed as follows: 2008 2009 restated i, ii m m i, ii Net segment assets at 31 December 9,359 6,642 Deduct: Intra-Group balances 46 22 i Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading or treasury management 79 113 Pre-productive assets 1,729 826 Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 92 83 Effect of averaging month-end balances 1,339 1,506 Average capital employed for year ended 31 December 6,166 4,092 i Restated to exclude segmental analysis of derivative assets and liabilities associated with certain re-measurements, as explained in note 2. ii Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment and to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2.
Capital expenditure on Capital expenditure on property, plant and intangible assets other Year ended 31 December equipment note 18 than goodwill note 16 2008 2008 2009 restated i, ii 2009 restated ii e Capital expenditure m m m m Continuing operations: ii Residential energy supply 1 15 60 14 Residential services 34 16 6 Business energy supply and services 1 1 5 6 Downstream UK 36 32 71 20 i Upstream gas and oil 358 177 50 12 Power generation 139 299 275 264 ii Industrial and commercial 4 16 4 Proprietary energy trading Upstream UK 501 476 341 280 i Storage UK 60 24 2 Residential energy supply 1 6 3 Business energy supply 1 1 6 Residential and business services 1 1 2 Upstream and wholesale energy 52 78 2 7 ii North America 54 81 14 12 Other 3 18 38 10 Capital expenditure on continuing operations 654 631 464 324 Decrease in prepayments related to capital expenditure 2 24 Unrealised gains on cash flow hedges transferred from reserves 4 Capitalised interest 34 9 Increase decrease in trade payables related to capital expenditure 28 19 140 155 Net cash outflow 594 617 604 169 i Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment, as explained in note 2. ii Restated to exclude the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, from continuing operations, as explained in note 38.
The capital expenditure of the Groups operations in Germany are reported within the Industrial and commercial segment.
Also restated to present the capital expenditure of British Gas New Energy within Downstream UK Residential energy supply and to split North America into four segments.
indd 92 8 3 10 11:38:23 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 6.
Segmental analysis continued The Group operates in four main geographical areas: Non-current assets Revenue based on location of assets Year ended 31 December based on location of customer At 31 December i 2008 2009 restated ii 2009 2008 m m m m Continuing operations: UK 15,216 14,610 9,050 4,770 United States of America 3,946 3,626 1,126 817 Canada 2,162 2,198 686 1,081 Rest of World 639 438 441 532 21,963 20,872 11,303 7,200 i Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets.
ii Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38, and change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2.
Costs of continuing operations 2008 2009 restated i Analysis of costs by nature m m Transportation, distribution and metering costs 3,503 2,993 Commodity costs 12,036 11,796 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 590 451 Employee costs 492 451 Other direct costs relating to the upstream businesses 289 265 Other direct costs relating to the downstream businesses 753 708 Total cost of sales before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 17,663 16,664 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 8 455 1,331 Total cost of sales 18,118 17,995 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 155 180 Employee costs 942 913 Exploration costs expensed 28 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 354 235 Foreign exchange losses gains 2 1 Other costs associated with upstream businesses 151 133 Other costs associated with downstream businesses 864 765 Total operating costs before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2,496 2,225 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 8 175 Total operating costs 2,671 2,225 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation as explained in note 38.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 93 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 93 8 3 10 11:38:23 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 8.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2009 2008 restated i a Exceptional items for the year ended 31 December m m Continuing operations: ii Provision for onerous gas procurement contract 199 iii Termination of energy sales contract 139 iv Provision for North American wind power purchase agreements 55 Exceptional items from continuing operations included within gross profit 393 v Impairments: Impairment of exploration and production assets arising from declining commodity prices 114 Impairment of North American assets arising from changing market conditions 35 149 vi UK restructuring costs 75 vii Profit on disposal of wind farm equity 49 175 Exceptional items from continuing operations included within Group operating profit 568 Taxation on exceptional items 186 Net exceptional items from continuing operations after taxation 382 Discontinued operations: viii Impairment of Oxxio goodwill and other assets, provisions and write-offs after taxation 24 67 ix Profit on disposal of Segebel S. A. after taxation 297 Total exceptional items after taxation 109 67 2009 2008 restated i b Certain re-measurements for the year ended 31 December m m Continuing operations: Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts x Net gains arising on delivery of contracts 928 10 xi Net losses arising on market price movements and new contracts 1,097 1,337 xii Net losses arising on positions in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts 28 4 iii Reversal of certain re-measurements in relation to the termination of energy sales contracts 135 Net re-measurements from continuing operations included within gross profit 62 1,331 xiii Net losses arising on re-measurement of associates energy contracts net of taxation 9 Net re-measurements included within Group operating profit 71 1,331 Taxation on certain re-measurements 1 413 Net re-measurements from continuing operations after taxation 72 918 Discontinued operations: Net re-measurements on energy contracts of discontinued operations after taxation note 38 107 63 Total re-measurements after taxation 179 981 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation as explained in note 38. ii On 1 October 2009 an onerous contract provision was established in the Upstream UK Industrial and commercial segment for a gas procurement contract for which a two-year notice had been served to terminate.
Exceptional charges of 199 million have been incurred of which 160 million is included in provisions for other liabilities and charges at the balance sheet date see note 28. iii During 2009, an exceptional charge of 139 million was recognised in relation to the termination of an out-of-the-money energy sales contract in the Industrial and commercial segment of Upstream UK with a negative fair value of 135 million that was reversed on termination.
iv During 2009, an exceptional charge of 55 million was recognised in relation to wind power purchase agreements in the North America Upstream and wholesale energy segment to reflect the fair value of the obligation to purchase power above its net realisable value.
v Impairment charges have been recognised across upstream exploration, production and generation assets as a result of declining commodity prices and in North America as a result of economic conditions.
See notes 6, 16 and 18. vi Restructuring costs, including costs of 23 million associated with the impairment of obsolete assets, have been charged in the UK as a result of the integration of the Downstream UK business and the acquisition of Venture Production plc to the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil segment.
vii Disposal of 50% of the issued share capital of GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited within the Upstream UK Power generation segment, as explained in note 38. viii During 2009, exceptional charges were incurred in respect of the write-off of previously capitalised customer acquisition costs which are now considered to be irrecoverable.
During 2008, exceptional charges of 67 million were incurred in the European Energy segment, including a 45 million impairment of the Oxxio goodwill, and a 22 million impairment of a receivable balance in Oxxio relating to historic overpayments of regulatory energy revenue tax, reflecting the reduced likelihood of realising the balance in the future.
ix Disposal of 100% of the issued share capital of Segebel S. A. as explained in note 38. x As energy is delivered or consumed from previously contracted positions, the related fair value recognised in the opening balance sheet representing the discounted difference between forward energy prices at the opening balance sheet date and the contract price of energy to be delivered is charged or credited to the Income Statement.
xi Represents fair value losses arising from the change in fair value of future contracted sales and purchase contracts as a result of changes in forward energy prices between reporting dates or date of inception and the reporting date, where later.
xii Comprises movements in fair value arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or storage capacity, on which economic value has been created which is not wholly accounted for under the provisions of IAS 39. xiii Includes fair value unwinds relating to the recognition of energy procurement contracts and energy sales contracts at their acquisition-date fair values.
indd 94 8 3 10 11:38:23 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 9.
Directors and employees 2008 restated 2009 ii i a Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 1,223 1,139 Social security costs 103 87 Other pension and retirement benefits costs 77 109 Share scheme costs 38 35 1,441 1,370 Capitalised employee costs 7 6 Employee costs recognised in the Group Income Statement 1,434 1,364 i Details of Directors remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of employee sharebased payments are given in note 35.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 40. ii Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38.
2009 2008 b Average number of employees during the year Number Number Downstream UK 26,216 26,195 Upstream UK 1,341 1,195 Storage UK 224 199 North America 5,042 4,991 i, ii Other operations 1,302 237 34,125 32,817 UK 27,674 27,538 United States of America 2,706 2,533 Canada 2,336 2,458 i, ii Rest of World 1,409 288 34,125 32,817 i Includes 1,302 employees 2008: 237 employees of European businesses which are classified as discontinued operations note 38. ii 2009 number includes average employee numbers of Segebel S. A. from the date of consolidation 20 January 2009 up to the date of disposal 26 November 2009.
Net interest 2009 2008 restated i Interest Interest Interest Interest expense income Total expense income Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Continuing operations: Cost of servicing net debt Interest income 48 48 106 106 Interest expense on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 253 253 128 128 Interest expense on finance leases 22 22 23 23 275 48 227 151 106 45 Losses gains on revaluation Losses gains on fair value hedges 41 43 2 82 81 1 ii Fair value losses gains on other derivatives 52 175 123 396 47 349 Fair value gains on other securities measured at fair value 3 3 Net foreign exchange translation of monetary iii assets and liabilities 128 128 345 345 221 221 478 473 5 Other interest Notional interest arising on discounted items 24 29 5 20 59 39 Interest on cash collateral balances 4 4 20 5 15 Interest on supplier early payment arrangements 5 5 15 15 24 38 14 40 79 39 520 307 213 669 658 11 i, iv Capitalised borrowing costs 34 34 9 9 Interest expense income 486 307 179 660 658 2 i Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment, as explained in note 2. ii Primarily reflects changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure associated with inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies.
iii Primarily reflects foreign exchange losses gains on inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies.
iv Borrowing costs on qualifying assets have been capitalised using an average rate of 5.37% 2008: 6.27%.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 95 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 95 8 3 10 11:38:24 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 11.
Taxation 2008 2009 restated i Exceptional items Exceptional items Business and certain Results for Business and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year a Analysis of tax charge for the year m m m m m m The tax charge comprises: Current tax UK corporation tax 333 62 271 397 5 402 UK petroleum revenue tax 112 112 517 517 Foreign tax 30 4 26 25 2 27 Adjustments in respect of prior years 135 4 139 21 21 Total current tax 340 70 270 918 7 925 Deferred tax ii Current year 147 113 34 165 236 71 Adjustments in respect of prior years 80 7 87 8 8 iii Change in tax rates 1 1 UK petroleum revenue tax 25 25 52 52 Foreign deferred tax 11 9 20 4 184 180 Total deferred tax 191 115 76 108 420 312 iv Total tax on profit from continuing operations 531 185 346 1,026 413 613 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation as explained in note 38. ii The Finance Act 2008 changed the rules concerning loss relief on decommissioning costs and, as a result of this change, the prior year deferred tax charge is stated net of a 55 million credit in respect of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets.
iii The effect of the decrease of 2% to the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 1 April 2008 on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2008 was a credit of 1 million.
iv Total tax on profit from continuing operations excludes taxation on the Groups share of profits in joint ventures and associates.
Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in notes 31 and 32.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit from ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which was 28% for 2009 2008: 28.5%, with the exception of upstream profits, which were taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2008: 30% plus a supplementary charge at 20% 2008: 20%.
Certain upstream assets also bear petroleum revenue tax at 50% 2008: 50%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
b Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows: 2008 2009 restated i Exceptional items Exceptional items Business and certain Results for Business and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year m m m m m m Profit from continuing operations before tax 1,635 639 996 1,990 1,331 659 Less: share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 10 9 1 9 9 Group profit from continuing operations before tax 1,625 630 995 1,981 1,331 650 Tax on profit from continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 455 176 279 564 379 185 Effects of: Net expenses not deductible for tax purposes 32 9 23 44 2 46 Adjustments in respect of prior years 55 3 52 29 29 ii Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 3 3 43 43 UK petroleum revenue tax rates 60 60 335 335 Overseas tax rates 1 8 7 10 50 60 Additional charges applicable to upstream profits 37 11 26 166 10 176 Changes to tax rates 1 4 3 Taxation on profit from continuing operations 531 185 346 1,026 413 613 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation as explained in note 38. ii The movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets includes the recognition in 2008 of 55 million of deferred tax assets relating to certain decommissioning provisions, following changes to UK tax law, and non-recognition of losses in certain overseas subsidiaries.
indd 96 8 3 10 11:38:24 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 11.
Taxation continued c Factors that may affect future tax charges Production of gas and oil within the UK continental shelf is subject to several taxes: corporation tax at 30% 2008: 30% on profits of gas and oil production: supplementary charge at 20% 2008: 20% on profits of gas and oil production adjusted for financing costs : petroleum revenue tax PRT at 50% 2008: 50% on income generated from certain gas and oil production net of certain costs.
PRT is a deductible expense for the purposes of corporation tax and the supplementary charge.
The effective rate of tax suffered on profits of UK gas production therefore falls between 50% and 75%.
To the extent that the Groups profits are earned from UK oil and gas production, its effective tax rate will remain above the current UK statutory rate of 28% 2008: 28%.
Income earned in North America and other territories outside the UK is generally subject to higher effective rates of tax than the current UK statutory rate.
In the medium term, the Groups effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate.
Dividends 2009 2008 m m Prior year final dividend of 8.73 pence 2008: 8.59 pence per ordinary share 447 356 Interim dividend of 3.66 pence 2008: 3.47 pence per ordinary share 188 144 635 500 The prior year final dividend was paid on 10 June 2009 2008: 11 June.
The interim dividend was paid on 11 November 2009 2008: 12 November.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.14 pence per ordinary share totalling 470 million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 May 2010 and, subject to approval, will be paid on 16 June 2010 to those shareholders registered on 30 April 2010.
Auditors remuneration 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and Group consolidation 2.7 2.2 The auditing of other accounts within the Group pursuant to legislation including that of countries and territories outside the UK 3.4 1.3 i Total fees related to audit of parent and subsidiary entities 6.1 3.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: ii Other services pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.9 Services related to taxation 0.1 Services related to information technology 0.1 0.2 Services related to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 0.3 0.4 All other services 1.5 0.8 8.8 5.8 Fees in respect of pension schemes: Audit 0.1 0.1 i Audit fees have increased in 2009 primarily as a result of work performed on Strategic Investments and the acquisition and subsequent disposal of Segebel S. A.
The 2009 audit fees include a nonrecurring element attributable largely to fair value assessments and audit work undertaken in support of disposals.
ii Includes fees in respect of review performed on the Interim Financial Statements.
It is the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects.
Appointments are made taking into account factors including expertise, experience and cost.
In addition, the Board has approved a detailed policy defining the types of work for which the auditors can tender and the approvals required.
In the past, the auditors have been engaged on assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, including tax advice, due diligence reporting and reporting accountant services on acquisitions.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 97 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 97 8 3 10 11:38:24 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 14.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 844 million 2008: loss of 137 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 5,121 million 2008: 4,198 million.
The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements, exceptional items and the impact of Strategic Investments, assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group, as explained in note 2.
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 restated i Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary a Continuing and discontinued operations m share m share Earnings loss basic 844 16.5 137 3.3 Net exceptional items after taxation notes 2 and 8 109 2.1 67 1.6 ii Certain re-measurement losses after taxation notes 2 and 8 141 2.8 981 23.4 Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments, after taxation 17 0.3 Earnings adjusted basic 1,111 21.7 911 21.7 Earnings loss diluted 844 16.4 137 3.3 Earnings adjusted diluted 1,111 21.6 911 21.5 i Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment and to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2. ii Excludes minority interests of 38 million 2008: nil.
Venture The Group obtained a controlling interest in the Venture Group on 27 August 2009.
The fair values attributable to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities arising on acquisition are set out in note 37.
Fair value adjustments amounting to 651 million have been made to interests acquired in oil and gas fields to report these at their acquisition-date fair values amounting to 1,748 million included within property, plant and equipment.
The fair value adjustments are provisional as the Directors have not yet reached final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
The Directors will finalise the fair values within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The acquired oil and gas field interests are depreciated over their remaining useful economic lives on a unit of production basis in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2.
As explained in note 2, the depreciation relating to fair value uplifts relating to the acquired property, plant and equipment and related taxation is excluded in arriving at adjusted earnings for the year, which amounted to 20 million depreciation and a taxation credit of 10 million in the period.
British Energy The Group acquired a 20% interest in British Energy on 26 November 2009 and accounts for its interest as an investment in associate as set out in note 19.
As explained in note 3, the Group has undertaken a provisional notional fair value exercise at the date of acquisition to allocate the cost of the investment to the individual assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at their acquisition-date fair values.
The fair values attributed are provisional as the Directors have not yet reached final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
The Groups share of provisional fair value adjustments made to the existing nuclear power stations amounts to 1,275 million resulting in an acquisition-date fair value attributable to these stations of 1,549 million.
The nuclear power stations are depreciated over their useful economic lives in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2.
As explained in note 2, the impact of depreciation arising on fair value uplifts attributed to the nuclear power stations and related taxation included within the Groups share of the post-taxation results of the associate is excluded in arriving at adjusted earnings for the period, which amounted to 7 million net of taxation.
indd 98 8 3 10 11:38:24 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 14.
Earnings per ordinary share continued Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 restated i Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary b Continuing operations m share m share Earnings basic 648 12.7 45 1.1 Net exceptional items after taxation notes 2 and 8 382 7.5 Certain re-measurement losses after taxation notes 2 and 8 72 1.4 918 21.8 Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments, after taxation 17 0.3 Earnings adjusted basic 1,119 21.9 963 22.9 Earnings diluted 648 12.6 45 1.1 Earnings adjusted diluted 1,119 21.8 963 22.8 i Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment and to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2.
Also restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38.
2009 2008 restated i Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary c Discontinued operations m share m share Earnings loss basic 196 3.8 182 4.3 Earnings loss diluted 196 3.8 182 4.3 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38.
Certain re-measurements notes 2 and 8 included within operating profit and discontinued operations comprise re-measurements arising on energy procurement activities and re-measurements of proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts.
All other re-measurements are included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
In addition to basic and adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2009 or 2008, however the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
In 2008, no outstanding awards or options were considered to be potentially dilutive for diluted earnings per ordinary share, because doing so would have decreased the loss per ordinary share.
However, potentially dilutive ordinary shares were taken into account when calculating adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
2009 2008 Million Million d Weighted average number of shares shares shares Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 5,121 4,198 Dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes 24 35 Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share 5,145 4,233 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 99 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 99 8 3 10 11:38:25 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 15.
Goodwill 2009 2008 m m Cost and net book value 1 January 1,510 1,074 Acquisitions note 37 916 269 Adjustments to provisional fair values of acquisitions completed in previous year 2 Impairments note 17 5 45 Disposals 3 i Transfer to assets held for sale 324 Exchange adjustments 6 210 31 December 2,088 1,510 i During 2009 European operations excluding Germany have been treated as discontinued operations, and Segebel S. A. has subsequently been sold note 38 and hence goodwill arising on acquisition is no longer included within Group goodwill at 31 December 2009.
2009 2008 Analysis of goodwill at 31 December by acquisition m m Direct Energy 389 369 Energy America 28 31 Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 Enbridge Services 91 87 CPL WTU 228 253 ATCO 54 51 Dyno-Rod 17 17 Residential Services Group 81 92 i Oxxio 69 Newfield 57 57 Strategic Energy 94 104 Caythorpe 33 33 Heimdal 165 151 Venture 654 Other 64 63 2,088 1,510 i During 2009 European operations excluding Germany have been treated as discontinued operations, and Segebel S. A. has subsequently been sold note 38 and hence goodwill arising on acquisition is no longer included within Group goodwill at 31 December 2009.
indd 100 8 3 10 11:38:25 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 16.
Other intangible assets Emissions allowances and renewable Exploration and obligation evaluation Application Customer software v certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2009 521 193 59 108 29 97 46 1,053 Additions acquired from a third party 111 278 5 46 2 442 Additions internally generated 29 1 1 31 Acquisitions note 37 15 8 15 202 100 263 603 Disposal of subsidiaries 17 17 iv Transfer to assets held for sale 43 5 15 218 260 541 Surrenders 286 286 ii Write-downs recognised in income 55 55 Exchange adjustments 1 17 4 14 28 31 December 2009 633 188 59 80 12 193 37 1,202 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2009 278 31 37 2 34 382 Amortisation 70 10 10 90 iii Impairments recognised in income 21 35 20 76 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 Surrenders 29 29 iv Transfer to assets held for sale 18 18 10 46 Exchange adjustments 1 4 3 31 December 2009 352 37 45 34 468 Net book value at 31 December 2009 281 151 59 35 12 193 3 734 Emissions allowances and renewable Exploration and Application obligation Customer evaluation expenditure software v certificates Brands i relationships Consents Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2008 447 53 57 72 29 41 44 743 Additions acquired from a third party 57 249 14 16 1 337 Additions internally generated 2 2 Acquisitions note 37 2 20 54 76 Disposals 9 18 27 Surrenders 100 100 ii Write-downs recognised in income 22 22 Exchange adjustments 15 20 8 1 44 31 December 2008 521 193 59 108 29 97 46 1,053 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2008 214 32 32 278 Amortisation 58 14 2 2 76 iii Impairments recognised in income 31 31 Disposals 18 18 Exchange adjustments 6 9 15 31 December 2008 278 31 37 2 34 382 Net book value at 31 December 2008 243 162 59 71 27 97 12 671 i Brands include 57 million 2008: 57 million associated with the Dyno-Rod brand, acquired on the acquisition of the Dyno group of companies during 2004.
In accordance with IAS 38 paragraph 88, management has ascribed the brand an indefinite useful life because there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the Dyno brand is expected to generate net cash inflows.
In reaching this determination, management has reviewed potential threats from competition, the risks of technological obsolescence and the expected usage of the brand by management.
ii A 55 million 2008: 22 million write-down of exploration and evaluation expenditure was recognised through operating costs, 36 million 2008: nil as an exceptional item due to declining commodity prices making the assets uneconomic, 19 million 2008: 22 million relating to unsuccessful drilling activity.
iii A 35 million 2008: 31 million impairment of emissions allowances was recognised within cost of sales, to reflect a reduction in fair value less costs to sell as a result of a decrease in market prices, that was offset by a reduction in the obligation related to emissions allowances of 35 million 2008: 31 million.
A 21 million 2008: nil impairment of application software was recognised as an exceptional item due to restructuring activity in the Downstream UK business, as described in note 8.
A 19 million 2008: nil impairment of customer relationship intangibles was recognised as an exceptional item due to increased customer churn in the Texas market of North America Residential energy supply.
iv During 2009 European operations excluding Germany have been treated as discontinued operations and Segebel S. A. was subsequently sold note 38 and hence other intangible assets associated with these operations are no longer included within Group other intangible assets at year end.
v Application software includes assets under construction with a cost of 40 million 2008: nil.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 101 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 101 8 3 10 11:38:25 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives a Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to cash-generating units Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated for impairment testing purposes to individual cash-generating units each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset is monitored for internal management purposes as follows: 2009 2008 Carrying Carrying amount of amount of Carrying indefinite-lived Carrying indefinite-lived Principal acquisitions to which amount of intangible amount of intangible goodwill and intangibles with indefinite goodwill asset Total goodwill asset Total Cash-generating unit useful lives relates m m m m m m Downstream UK Business energy supply and services Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 133 133 Downstream UK Residential services Dyno-Rod Dyno-Rod 17 57 74 17 57 74 Upstream UK Upstream gas i and oil Newfield Heimdal Venture 876 876 208 208 North America Residential ii energy supply Direct Energy ATCO CPL WTU 602 602 612 612 North America Business Direct Energy ATCO Strategic energy supply Energy 191 191 196 196 North America Residential Enbridge Services Residential ii and business services Services Group 192 192 200 200 iii European Energy Oxxio Oxxio 69 69 iv Other Various 77 77 75 75 2,088 57 2,145 1,510 57 1,567 i Increase due primarily to goodwill arising from the acquisition of Venture Production plc during 2009 note 37. ii Carrying amount of goodwill also contains goodwill from other Direct Energy acquisitions which are not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the cash-generating unit.
iii Oxxio has been classified as a discontinued operation in 2009 note 38. iv Goodwill balances allocated across multiple cash-generating units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit is not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
Included in this amount is 2 million impairment of goodwill attributable to Semplice Energy Ltd. 2 million of goodwill attributable to the Groups interest in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited was disposed of in 2009, as described in note 38. b Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for all of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset balances noted above, with the exception of the impairment test for the Upstream UK Gas production and development cash-generating unit, where fair value less costs to sell has been used as the basis for determining recoverable amount.
i Value in use The value in use calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business plans.
The Groups business plans are based on past experience, and adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, key risks, the implementation of strategic objectives and changes in commodity prices, as appropriate.
Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates.
The extent to which the commodity prices used in the business plans are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
Note 29 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates.
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period have been extrapolated using growth rates in line with historic long-term growth rates in the market where the cash-generating unit operates.
Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each cash-generating unit to determine the cash-generating units value in use, which is then deemed to be its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of each cash-generating units net assets to determine whether the carrying values of any of the Groups goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset balances are greater than their corresponding recoverable amounts.
ii Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell is used as the basis for determining the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil.
This methodology is deemed to be more appropriate as it is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from each field within Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil.
This is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the underlying assets.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas production and development assets within Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil, net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field within Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil, taking into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period.
indd 102 8 3 10 11:38:26 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued Where forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal model inputs.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, production costs, the contractual duration of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced.
As each field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using individual economic models and key assumptions as determined by management.
Post-tax cash flows used in the fair value less costs to sell calculation for the first three years are based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business plans and, thereafter, are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts.
Where necessary, the business plan and long-term forecasts are updated in the economic models to reflect the latest view of each field as at the balance sheet date.
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 7% to determine the fair value less costs to sell of Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil.
Fair value less costs to sell is compared to the carrying value of the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil cash-generating unit to determine whether goodwill is impaired.
The discount rate used in the fair value less costs to sell calculation is determined in the same manner as the discount rates used in the value in use calculations described below, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate that is not required for the fair value less costs to sell calculation.
c Key rates used in value in use calculations i Growth rate to perpetuity Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-term growth rate forecasts published by external analysts.
ii Discount rates Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Each cash-generating units weighted average cost of capital is then adjusted to reflect the impact of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.
Long-term growth rates used in the value in use calculations for each of the Groups cash-generating units are provided in the table below together with pre-tax discount rates.
Downstream UK North America North America North America Business energy Downstream UK Residential Business Residential and supply and services Residential services energy supply energy supply business services Growth rate to perpetuity 1.7% 1.7% 1.5% 2.0% 1.9% Pre-tax discount rate 7.6% 7.6% 7.5% 7.5% 7.5% iii Inflation rates Inflation rates used in the three-year business plan were based on a blend of a number of publicly available inflation forecasts available in the UK, Canada and the US.
Inflation rates used for the value in use calculations were as follows: UK 1.7% in 20102012, Canada 1.8% in 20102012 and the US 2.0% in 20102012. d Key assumptions used and summary of results i Downstream UK Business energy supply and services Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on the contractual terms for customers on existing contracts and gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to approval of the business plan for new and renewal customers, adjusted to reflect current market conditions and higher expected transportation costs.
Revenues: based on the average market share achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity and recent customer acquisitions, with prices based on forward market curves for both gas and electricity.
Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations, with a slight increase in the provision for credit losses experienced historically to reflect the current economic environment in the UK.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Downstream UK Business energy supply and services cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill to be equal to or less than the carrying amount.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 103 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 103 8 3 10 11:38:26 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued ii Downstream UK Residential services Dyno-Rod Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on gross margins achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan.
Revenues: based on revenue levels achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan adjusted for the impact of increased marketing spend and the targeting of key accounts with individual sales staff, with a slight reduction in growth rates to reflect the current economic environment in the UK.
Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Downstream UK Residential services Dyno-Rod cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset to be equal to or less than their carrying amounts.
iii Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil Key assumptions Cash inflows: based on forward market prices for gas and oil for the active period of the market and internal model inputs thereafter, with reserve volumes and production profiles based on internal management or operator estimates.
Cash outflows: based on forecast capital and operating expenditure and the estimated future costs of abandonment.
Taxation: based on tax rates expected to be in effect at the point of the forecast cash flow.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Upstream UK Gas production and development cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
iv North America Residential energy supply Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on contractual terms for customers on existing contracts and gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan for new and renewal customers, adjusted to reflect competitor data, where available.
Where applicable, regulated gross margin percentages are based on the gross margin percentages included in regulatory applications submitted to the Alberta Utilities Commission in Canada.
Revenues: based on average market share by individual market sector achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for expectations of growth or decline based on individual jurisdictions to reflect regulatory or competitive differences, including customer propensity to switch, and contractual prices, with non-contractual prices based on forward market gas and power curves in Canada and the US.
Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations, with a slight decrease in costs to reflect planned business process efficiencies.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the North America Residential energy supply cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
v North America Business energy supply Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on contractual terms for gross margin under contract and historical experience for planned renewals and new sales.
Unit margins were planned to achieve an acceptable return on risk adjusted capital.
Revenues: based on historical growth trends and planned sales activities by individual market sector.
Prices are based on forward market curves for gas and electricity in Canada and the US.
Operating costs: based on historical trends adjusted to reflect expected cost optimisations, as well as improved bad debt performance as a result of assumed economic and credit market recovery.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the North America Business energy supply cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
vi North America Residential and business services Key assumptions Gross margin percentage: based on gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to the approval of the business plan, adjusted to reflect the current economic conditions and housing decline in North America.
Revenues: based on historical growth trends by individual market sector, adjusted for new product offerings and continued penetration into new markets.
Operating costs: based on projected headcount and inflationary increases.
indd 104 8 3 10 11:38:26 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 17.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued Summary of results An amount of 3 million of goodwill attributable to the North America Residential and business services cash-generating unit was written off as a result of the Appliances division being classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the assets should be written down to the lower of their cost and recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the North America Residential and business services cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii, iii ii, iii ii, iii, iv Total m m m m m Cost vii 1 January 2009 restated 22 424 2,483 6,234 9,163 Additions 60 5 316 469 850 Capitalised borrowing costs note 10 34 34 Acquisitions note 37 13 14 903 1,796 2,726 vi Fair value unwind capitalisation 18 18 Disposals 5 9 4 18 Reclassification as joint venture 370 370 v Transfer to assets held for sale 71 47 1,094 1,212 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability note 28 6 74 68 Exchange adjustments 1 2 79 64 18 31 December 2009 23 389 2,144 8,649 11,205 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2009 10 167 434 3,863 4,474 Charge for the year 2 43 144 455 644 Disposals 5 9 4 18 Reclassification as joint venture 27 27 Impairments 2 35 52 89 v Transfer to assets held for sale 1 7 24 32 Exchange adjustments 3 8 21 16 31 December 2009 11 203 545 4,387 5,146 Net book value at 31 December 2009 12 186 1,599 4,262 6,059 Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii, iii ii, iii ii, iii, iv, vi Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2008 39 288 2,076 5,433 7,836 Additions 115 312 204 631 vii Capitalised borrowing costs note 10 9 9 Acquisitions note 37 4 342 346 Disposals 18 8 8 34 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability note 28 16 165 181 Exchange adjustments 1 25 87 81 194 vii 31 December 2008 restated 22 424 2,483 6,234 9,163 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2008 17 121 305 3,483 3,926 Charge for the year 1 46 117 351 515 Disposals 8 8 7 23 Exchange adjustments 8 19 29 56 31 December 2008 10 167 434 3,863 4,474 vii Net book value at 31 December 2008 restated 12 257 2,049 2,371 4,689 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 105 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 105 8 3 10 11:38:26 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment continued During 2009, declining commodity prices have given rise to impairment charges within Upstream UK Power generation 35 million, Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil 22 million and North America Upstream and wholesale energy 30 million.
The impairment charges arise as a result of the assets being written down to the higher of their value in use Upstream UK Power generation or fair value less costs to sell Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil, and North America Upstream and wholesale energy.
Note 17 provides more detail on the general approach to impairment calculations and provides the assumptions used to assess Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil for impairment.
For North America Upstream and wholesale energy, fair value less cost to sell is determined based on evidence from recent acquisition transactions for similar assets in the local oil and gas market, net of estimated selling costs.
For Upstream UK Power generation assets, the future cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 7.6%.
The key assumptions are: Cash inflows: based on forward market prices for power for the active period of the market and internal models thereafter, with production profiles based on best economic running decision: Cash outflows: based on planned operating and capital expenditure: and Taxation: based on tax rates expected to be in effect at the point of the forecast cash flow.
2009 2008 i The net book value of land and buildings comprises the following: m m Freeholds 6 5 Long leaseholds 1 1 Short leaseholds 5 6 12 12 2009 2008 ii Assets in the course of construction are included within the following categories of property, plant and equipment: m m Plant, equipment and vehicles 20 33 Power generation 355 697 Gas storage and production 757 186 1,132 916 2009 iii Assets held under finance leases included in totals above: 2008 Plant, equipment Power Gas storage and Power Gas storage and and vehicles generation production Total generation production Total m m m m m m m Cost at 1 January 469 415 884 469 415 884 Additions 2 2 Cost at 31 December 2 469 415 886 469 415 884 Aggregate depreciation at 1 January 118 360 478 90 352 442 Charge for the year 1 28 5 34 28 8 36 Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 1 146 365 512 118 360 478 Net book value at 31 December 1 323 50 374 351 55 406 iv The net book value of decommissioning costs included within power generation and gas storage and production assets was 565 million 2008: 413 million.
v During 2009 European operations excluding Germany have been treated as discontinued operations and Segebel S. A. was subsequently sold note 38 and hence property, plant and equipment associated with these operations are no longer included within Group property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2009. vi Relates to the consumption of a rig contract which was out-of-the-money on acquisition.
As the contract is utilised, the fair value is added to the cost of the associated fixed assets.
vii Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on adoption of IAS 23 Amendment, as explained in note 2.
The net book value of assets to which title was restricted at 31 December 2009 was 374 million 2008: 351 million, of which 324 million 2008: 351 million relates to the Spalding power station finance lease asset.
The net book value of assets pledged as security for liabilities as at 31 December 2009 was 157 million 2008: nil.
indd 106 8 3 10 11:38:27 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 19.
Interests in joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures Shareholder and associates loans Total a Interest in joint ventures and associates m m m 1 January 2009 286 44 330 i, ii Additions 2,303 39 2,342 iii Reclassification as a subsidiary 216 216 Decrease in shareholder loans 17 17 Disposals of investments 1 1 Share of profits for the year 1 1 Exchange adjustments 17 17 31 December 2009 2,356 66 2,422 i On 26 November 2009, the Group acquired a 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited British Energy for 2,255 million, which is the holding company of the British Energy Group and a 20% interest in NNB Holding Company Limited for 32 million, which is the investment vehicle for new nuclear build activity.
ii Other additions relate to the reclassification of interests in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited note 38 and the acquisitions of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited, Bacton Storage Company Limited, Secure Electrans Limited, Ten Degrees North Energy Limited and Sevan Production General Partnership.
iii On 20 January 2009 the Group gained control of Segebel S. A. and from this date until the date of subsequent disposal the investment was consolidated as a subsidiary notes 37 and 38.
Investments in joint ventures Shareholder loans Total and associates m m m 1 January 2008 222 63 285 Decrease in shareholder loans 19 19 i Share of profits for the year 12 12 Exchange adjustments 52 52 31 December 2008 286 44 330 i Share of profits for 2008 includes 3 million in respect of Segebel S. A. which was classified as discontinued in 2009. b Share of joint ventures and associates assets and liabilities The Groups share of joint ventures and associates gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2009 principally comprises its interests in Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited, GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited, Lake Acquisitions Limited British Energy and NNB Holding Company Limited.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited, GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited, Lake Acquisitions Limited British Energy and NNB Holding Company Limited are included within the Upstream UK Power generation segment.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of Secure Electrans Limited are included within the Downstream UK Residential energy supply segment.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of Bacton Storage Company Limited are included within the Storage UK segment.
The Groups share of the investments in and results of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited, Ten Degrees North Energy Limited and Sevan Production General Partnership are included within the Upstream UK Upstream gas and oil segment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 107 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 107 8 3 10 11:38:27 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 19.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued 2009 2008 Joint ventures Associates Braes of Doune Lake Acquisitions NNB Holding Wind Farm Barrow Offshore GLID Wind Farms Limited Company Wind Limited TopCo Limited i Other ii Total Total Scotland Limited British Energy Limited m m m m m m m m Share of non-current assets 33 59 146 3,773 31 36 4,078 412 Share of current assets 10 14 32 628 5 13 702 204 36 43 73 178 4,401 49 4,780 616 Share of current liabilities 7 1 41 188 4 2 243 173 Share of non-current liabilities 23 23 152 1,981 2 2,181 157 4 30 24 193 2,169 4 2,424 330 Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 13 49 15 2,232 32 45 2,356 286 Shareholder loans 22 5 22 15 2 66 44 Interests in joint ventures and associates 35 54 7 2,247 32 47 2,422 330 Net cash debt included in share of net assets 24 11 181 20 3 2 237 11 i As part of a finance arrangement entered into by GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited, the Groups shares in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited are pledged to a third party.
The pledge will only come into force should GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited default on any of its obligations under the finance arrangement.
ii Other includes joint ventures of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited, Bacton Storage Company Limited and Secure Electrans Limited and associates of Ten Degrees North Energy Limited and Sevan Production General Partnership.
c Share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates 2009 2008 restated i Joint ventures Associates Braes of Doune Lake Acquisitions Wind Farm Barrow Offshore GLID Wind Farms Limited Scotland Limited Wind Limited TopCo Limited British Energy Total Total m m m m m m Income 8 13 3 52 76 21 ii Expenses excluding certain re-measurements 3 5 1 49 58 9 Certain re-measurements 12 12 5 8 2 9 6 12 Interest 1 1 2 4 ii Taxation excluding certain re-measurements 2 2 4 3 Taxation on certain re-measurements 3 3 Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures iii and associates 3 5 1 8 1 9 i Restated to present Segebel S. A. as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38. ii Includes 10 million 2008: nil relating to depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring the British Energy investments.
The associated tax impact is 3 million credit 2008: nil.
iii No profits or losses arose in NNB Holding Company Limited or in Other.
indd 108 8 3 10 11:38:27 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 19.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued British Energy The Group acquired a 20% interest in British Energy for 2,255 million and NNB Holding Company Limited for 32 million on 26 November 2009, including transaction costs of 15 million which were unpaid at 31 December 2009.
As explained in note 2, the Group has undertaken a provisional notional fair value exercise at the date of acquisition to allocate the cost of the investment to the individual assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at their acquisition-date fair values.
The fair values attributed at acquisition date are provisional as the Directors have not yet reached final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
The Groups share of loss arising from its investment in British Energy for the period 26 November 2009 to 31 December 2009 as set out in the table above includes the effect of unwinding the fair value adjustments.
As explained in note 2 the depreciation, net of taxation, arising on fair value uplifts attributed to the nuclear power stations is reversed in arriving at adjusted profit for the period as shown in the reconciliation table below and as set out in notes 6 and 14. d Reconciliation of share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates to share 2008 of adjusted profits losses in joint ventures and associates 2009 restated i Joint ventures Associates Braes of Doune Lake Acquisitions Wind Farm Barrow Offshore GLID Wind Farms Limited Scotland Limited Wind Limited TopCo Limited British Energy Total Total m m m m m m Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates 3 5 1 8 1 9 Certain re-measurements net of taxation 9 9 ii Depreciation British Energy net of taxation 7 7 Interest 1 1 2 4 Taxation excluding certain re-measurements and British Energy depreciation 2 2 3 7 3 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 5 8 2 13 28 12 i Restated to present Segebel S. A. as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38. ii Relates to depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment on acquiring the British Energy investments.
Inventories 2009 2008 m m Gas in storage and transportation 140 223 Other raw materials and consumables 108 93 Finished goods and goods for resale 134 96 382 412 The Group consumed 786 million of inventories 2008: 515 million during the year.
Write-downs of inventory of 3 million 2008: 23 million were recognised in gross profit during the year to reflect the impact of a reduction in the forward market price of gas on the net realisable value of gas in storage and transportation, with 1 million recognised in Direct Energy and 2 million recognised in Centrica Energy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 109 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 109 8 3 10 11:38:27 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 21.
Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets: Trade receivables 1,711 14 2,142 25 Accrued energy income 1,876 2,480 Cash collateral pledged 631 669 Other receivables 331 11 330 9 4,549 25 5,621 34 Less: Provision for credit losses 554 541 3,995 25 5,080 34 Non-financial assets: Prepayments and other receivables 186 118 255 4,181 143 5,335 34 Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows: 2009 2008 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets by class: Residential customers 1,883 14 2,217 25 Business customers 1,495 11 1,651 9 Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 1,171 1,753 4,549 25 5,621 34 Less: Provision for credit losses 554 541 3,995 25 5,080 34 Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that is due remains outstanding past the contractual due date.
Contractual due dates range from being due upon receipt to due in 30 days.
An ageing of the carrying value of trade and other receivables that are past due but not considered to be individually impaired by class is as follows: 2009 2008 Treasury, trading Treasury, trading and energy and energy Residential Business procurement Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties customers customers counterparties Days past due m m m m m m Less than 30 days 199 124 119 299 123 5 3089 days 75 163 127 141 2 Less than 90 days 274 287 119 426 264 7 90182 days 63 49 2 89 34 183365 days 98 76 2 109 51 5 Greater than 365 days 41 16 1 126 17 5 476 428 124 750 366 17 At 31 December 2009, there were 34 million 2008: 107 million of receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from residential customers and 8 million 2008: 25 million from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties that were considered to be individually impaired.
There were no individually impaired receivables 2008: nil, net of provisions for credit losses, from business customers.
Receivables from residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with the Group.
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, determined by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts.
Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows: 11 0 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 110 8 3 10 11:38:28 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 21.
Trade and other receivables continued Treasury, trading and energy Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties Total 2009 m m m m 1 January 399 131 11 541 Impairment of trade receivables 240 116 1 357 i Transfer to assets held for sale 24 4 28 Receivables written off 247 62 309 Exchange adjustments 6 1 7 31 December 362 180 12 554 i During 2009, European operations excluding Germany have been treated as discontinued operations note 38 and hence provisions for credit losses are no longer included within Group trade and other receivables at year end.
Treasury, trading and energy Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties Total 2008 m m m m 1 January 350 81 431 Impairment of trade receivables 141 85 11 237 Receivables written off 118 38 156 Exchange adjustments 26 3 29 31 December 399 131 11 541 The charge for the impairment of trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, relating mainly to residential customers in the UK, which are no longer required.
At 31 December 2009, the Group held 17 million 2008: 23 million of customer deposits for the purposes of mitigating the credit risk associated with receivables from residential and business customers.
Exposure to credit risk associated with receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties is monitored by counterparty credit rating as follows: Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties by Carrying value AAA to AA AAto ABBB to BBBBB to BBB or lower Unrated credit rating m m m m m m m 2009 1,171 12 703 237 13 12 194 2008 1,753 351 1,021 260 3 11 107 The unrated counterparty receivables are comprised primarily of amounts due from subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses.
Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties are managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy as described in note 4.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are generally held for the purpose of proprietary energy trading, treasury management or energy procurement.
Derivatives held for the purpose of proprietary energy trading are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Groups results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, with the exception of certain derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts note 2.
Derivative financial instruments held for the purposes of treasury management or energy procurement are also carried at fair value, with changes in the fair value of derivatives relating to treasury management reflected in the results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, and those relating to energy procurement reflected in certain re-measurements.
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Notes 2 and 23 provide further detail on the Groups hedge accounting.
Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract note 2.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 111 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 111 8 3 10 11:38:28 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 2009 2008 restated i 2007 restated i m m m Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading: Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives assets 68 119 44 Energy derivatives liabilities 3 6 52 65 113 8 Derivative financial instruments held for the purpose of treasury management or energy procurement: Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives assets 590 1,409 893 Energy derivatives liabilities 2,134 3,338 1,204 Interest rate derivatives assets 3 2 2 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 5 19 5 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 45 200 18 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 79 295 77 1,580 2,041 373 Contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss: Energy derivatives assets 109 9 Energy derivatives liabilities 177 95 86 177 14 77 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships: Energy derivatives assets 2 24 122 Energy derivatives liabilities 328 365 67 Interest rate derivatives assets 69 62 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 10 4 7 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 31 100 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 14 77 19 250 260 29 Net total 1,942 2,174 429 The net total reconciles to the Balance Sheet as follows: 2009 2008 restated i 2007 restated i m m m Derivative financial instruments non-current assets 316 869 496 Derivative financial instruments current assets 492 1,156 592 808 2,025 1,088 Derivative financial instruments current liabilities 1,744 2,670 694 Derivative financial instruments non-current liabilities 1,006 1,529 823 2,750 4,199 1,517 Net total 1,942 2,174 429 i Restated to classify the non-current portions of derivative financial instruments from current assets and liabilities to non-current assets and liabilities.
The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general components: 2009 2008 m m Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: UK and Europe 1,091 748 North America 583 814 Structured gas purchase contracts 34 28 Structured gas sales contracts 135 450 Other 139 103 Net total 1,982 2,143 11 2 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 112 8 3 10 11:38:28 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued 2009 2008 Income Income Statement Equity Statement Equity Net gains losses on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement m m m m Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading 48 117 Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 153 1,621 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 36 16 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 15 43 82 360 54 43 1,438 360 Derivative-related credit risk assets Credit risk from derivative transactions is generated by the potential for the counterparty to default on its contractual obligations.
Therefore, derivative-related credit risk is represented by the positive fair value of the instrument and is normally a small fraction of the contracts notional amount.
Credit risk from derivatives is measured and managed by counterparty credit rating as follows: Fair value of derivative financial instruments with Carrying value AAA to AA AAto ABBB to BBBBB to BBB or lower Unrated a positive fair value by counterparty credit rating m m m m m m m 2009 808 35 567 44 3 159 2008 2,025 73 1,621 153 4 5 169 To manage derivative-related counterparty credit exposure, the Group employs the use of margining and set-off rights in some agreements.
Under margining agreements, the Group has the right to request that the counterparty pay down or collateralise the current fair value of its derivatives position when the position passes a specified threshold.
Details of collateral balances held at 31 December 2009 are provided in note 4.
Maturity profiles of derivative financial instruments liabilities The following maturity analysis shows the remaining contractual maturities on an undiscounted basis for the Groups derivative financial instruments that are in a loss position at the balance sheet date and will be settled on a net basis: 2009 2008 Energy derivatives that will be settled on a net basis m m Less than one year 325 456 One to five years 185 148 More than five years 510 604 2009 2008 Interest rate derivatives that will be settled on a net basis m m Less than one year 1 18 One to five years 7 More than five years 29 28 25 Certain of the Groups energy contracts that are accounted for as derivatives are for the physical purchase of energy.
In these cases, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all purchase contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date as follows: 2009 2008 Energy procurement contracts that are carried at fair value m m Less than one year 15,314 20,426 One to five years 17,865 21,538 More than five years 4,877 8,095 38,056 50,059 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 113 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 113 8 3 10 11:38:29 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued The Groups foreign exchange derivative contracts will be settled on a gross basis.
In these cases, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all derivative contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date.
In addition to cash outflows on all foreign exchange derivative contracts that are gross settled on an undiscounted basis, the following analysis also provides disclosure of the related cash inflows as follows: 2009 2008 Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis m m m m Less than one year 1,925 1,899 4,394 4,227 One to five years 1,444 1,426 487 528 More than five years 232 242 150 137 3,601 3,567 5,031 4,892 23.
Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Note 2 details the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The fair values of derivative and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows: 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges 70 5 72 Cash flow hedges 32 347 96 369 Net investment hedges: Primary financial instruments 225 Derivative financial instruments 18 77 Fair value hedges The Groups fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and in the fair value of the hedged item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised as income within net interest expense.
Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges at 31 December were as follows: 2009 2008 Gains losses m m On hedging instruments 12 81 On hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 14 82 2 1 Cash flow hedges The Groups cash flow hedges consist primarily of: a physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts used to protect against the variability in future cash flows associated with highly probable forecast purchases of gas and power due to movements in market commodity prices: b forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions: and c interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in market interest rates.
Gains and losses are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the Income Statement when the forecast cash flows affect the Income Statement.
Note 31 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2009, the Group recognised a 2 million loss 2008: 4 million loss due to cash flow hedge ineffectiveness.
Net investment hedges The Groups net investment hedges consist of foreign currency debt issued in the same currency as the net investment, foreign exchange forwards and cross-currency interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in the pounds sterling value of the Groups net investments in foreign operations due to movements in the relative strength of foreign currencies to pounds sterling.
Gains and losses on the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity and transferred to the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Gains and losses on the ineffective portion of the hedge are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2009, the Group recognised losses of 4 million due to net investment hedge ineffectiveness 2008: nil.
indd 114 8 3 10 11:38:29 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 24.
Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 121 87 Short-term deposits 1,173 2,852 Cash and cash equivalents 1,294 2,939 Cash and cash equivalents includes 64 million 2008: 34 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary undertakings that is not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
Carrying value AAA AA A Unrated Cash and cash equivalents by counterparty credit rating m m m m m 2009 1,294 818 172 304 2008 2,939 1,488 751 692 8 Credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy as described in note 4.
Trade and other payables 2009 2008 restated i Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial liabilities: Trade payables 784 1,384 Cash collateral received 43 Deferred income 485 203 Capital creditors 174 67 Other payables 381 45 289 4 Accruals Commodity costs 1,032 1,244 Transportation, distribution and metering costs 146 70 Operating and other accruals 528 494 1,706 1,808 3,530 45 3,794 4 Non-financial liabilities: Other payables and accruals 327 31 381 60 Deferred income 98 6 220 3 3,955 82 4,395 67 i Restated to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2.
The 2008 trade and other payables have been restated by 31 million as a result of this policy change.
2009 2008 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities within trade and other payables on an undiscounted basis m m Less than 90 days 3,046 3,683 90182 days 249 35 183365 days 235 76 3,530 3,794 Greater than 365 days 45 4 3,575 3,798 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 115 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 115 8 3 10 11:38:29 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 26.
Previously floating but capped at 6.854%.
vi Principal amount was increased by 150 million on 20 February 2009, by 70 million on 1 April 2009 and by 100 million on 8 June 2009. vii Redeemed on 12 February 2010, as explained in note 42.
Minimum lease Capital element of Minimum lease Capital element of payments lease payments payments lease payments 2009 2009 2008 2008 Future finance lease commitments: m m m m Amounts payable: Within one year 44 23 44 21 Between one and five years 183 115 181 107 After five years 283 237 330 269 510 375 555 397 Less future finance charges 135 158 Present value of lease obligations 375 397 2009 2008 restated Maturity profile of the Groups borrowings including interest and principal: m m i Within one year 326 541 Between one and five years 3,080 2,159 After five years 4,038 2,849 7,444 5,549 Interest payments 2,764 2,001 4,680 3,548 i Borrowings include amounts repayable on demand of 28 million 2008: 35 million.
indd 116 8 3 10 11:38:30 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 27.
Deferred and current corporation tax liabilities and assets The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods: Accelerated tax Retirement Other timing depreciation Deferred Decommissioning Deferred benefit Accelerated tax differences petroleum corporation tax petroleum corporation tax obligation and depreciation including losses Marked-tomarket Total revenue tax effect thereon revenue tax effect thereon other provisions corporation tax carried forward m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2008 167 84 86 43 28 807 201 105 569 Changes to tax rates 1 1 Charge credit to income 42 21 94 47 53 63 19 441 332 Credit to equity 111 97 208 Acquisition of subsidiary 148 1 147 Exchange and other adjustments 19 10 47 38 31 December 2008 209 105 180 90 30 1,036 193 690 137 Charge credit to income: Continuing operations 28 14 4 2 113 66 92 4 79 Discontinued operations 32 21 11 Charge credit to equity 241 10 12 239 i Transfer to assets held for sale 3 3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,070 120 18 968 Disposal of subsidiaries 383 41 342 Exchange and other adjustments 5 2 25 28 31 December 2009 181 91 176 88 158 1,829 417 611 645 i During 2009, European operations excluding Germany have been treated as discontinued operations note 38 and hence provisions for current and deferred taxes are no longer included within Group deferred and current corporation tax liabilities and assets at year end.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax liabilities 1,179 448 Deferred tax assets 534 311 645 137 The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances before offset: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax assets crystallising within one year 329 423 Deferred tax assets crystallising after one year 1,058 890 1,387 1,313 Offset against deferred tax liabilities 853 1,002 Net deferred tax assets 534 311 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising within one year 107 58 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising after one year 1,925 1,392 2,032 1,450 Offset against deferred tax assets 853 1,002 Net deferred tax liabilities 1,179 448 At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of 148 million 2008: 178 million available for utilisation against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
These assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, temporary differences of 76 million 2008: 76 million existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments.
The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be 3 million 2008: 3 million, which has been provided for.
Current tax assets of 69 million 2008: 39 million include 36 million 2008: 20 million of recoverable petroleum revenue tax.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 117 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 117 8 3 10 11:38:30 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 28.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Acquisitions Unused and Transferred 1 January and Charged in reversed in to from 31 December Current provisions for other 2009 disposals the year the year non-current Utilised 2009 liabilities and charges m m m m m m m i, ii Restructuring costs 22 54 8 13 25 56 iii Decommissioning costs 1 2 3 iv Purchase contract loss provision 146 1 41 106 v Other 7 24 3 6 6 3 31 29 24 204 2 10 72 193 Acquisitions Unused and Transfers to Transferred 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and assets held to from Exchange 31 December Non-current provisions for other 2009 disposals the year the year additions for sale current adjustments 2009 liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m m i, ii Restructuring costs 34 2 13 1 22 iii Decommissioning costs 769 260 22 88 89 2 4 1,052 iv Purchase contract loss provision 108 1 1 108 vi Renegotiation provisions 27 27 v Other 35 14 3 2 16 6 40 865 274 135 2 88 105 10 4 1,249 2009 2008 Financial and non-financial liabilities within provisions for other liabilities Current Non-current Current Non-current and charges m m m m Financial liabilities: i, ii Restructuring costs 55 19 20 34 vi Renegotiation provisions 27 27 v Other 31 25 7 18 86 71 27 79 Non-financial liabilities: i, ii Restructuring costs 1 3 2 iii Decommissioning costs 1,052 769 iv Purchase contract loss provision 106 108 v Other 15 17 107 1,178 2 786 193 1,249 29 865 Maturity analysis for financial liabilities within provisions for other 2009 2008 liabilities and charges on an undiscounted basis m m Within one year 86 27 Between one and two years 7 19 Between two and five years 54 53 After five years 10 7 157 106 i The brought forward restructuring provisions relate to significant restructuring programmes undertaken to achieve the Groups stated cost reduction targets.
Included within the provision are costs related to surplus properties of 39 million 2008: 50 million estimated with reference to the expected cost to be incurred to the point of lease termination, including costs for dilapidations and sub-letting.
The provisions are expected to be utilised between 2010 and 2022. ii The amounts charged in the year relate to the UK restructuring costs recognised in 2009, as explained in note 8. iii Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The timing of decommissioning payments is dependent on the lives of the facilities but is anticipated to occur between 2010 and 2050, with the substantial majority of the provision being utilised between 2015 and 2030.
The charge to income includes 18 million of notional interest 2008: 20 million.
iv The purchase contract loss provision relates to an onerous gas procurement contract and North American wind farm power purchase agreements, as explained in note 8. v Other provisions include outstanding litigation for a number of items none of which are individually significant and provision for National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities.
The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 281.10 pence at 31 December 2009 2008: 266.00 pence and is expected to be utilised between 2010 and 2015. vi In previous years, the Group renegotiated certain long-term take-or-pay contracts which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be in excess of requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
The provision represents the net present cost of estimated payments due to suppliers as consideration for the renegotiations, most of which was settled in 2008, based on the reserves in a group of third-party fields.
indd 118 8 3 10 11:38:30 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 29.
Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties under no compulsion to act.
The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk.
The fair values of the Groups financial instruments, together with the carrying amounts included in the Balance Sheet are analysed as follows: 2009 2008 restated i Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Financial assets Notes m m m m Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables, net of provisions 21 4,020 4,020 5,114 5,114 Cash and cash equivalents 24 1,294 1,294 2,939 2,939 5,314 5,314 8,053 8,053 Financial assets measured at fair value: i Derivative financial instruments 22 808 808 2,025 2,025 Securities: Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit and loss 104 104 Available-for-sale financial assets: Debt instruments 118 118 89 89 Equity instruments 28 28 9 9 250 250 98 98 2009 2008 restated i Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Financial liabilities Notes m m m m Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Trade and other payables 25 3,575 3,575 3,798 3,798 Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings: Bank overdrafts and loans 26 447 422 481 535 Bonds 26 3,608 3,879 2,666 2,660 Other borrowings 26 250 252 Commercial paper 26 4 4 Obligations under finance leases 26 375 375 397 397 Provisions 28 157 157 106 106 8,412 8,660 7,452 7,500 Financial liabilities at fair value: i Derivative financial instruments 22 2,750 2,750 4,199 4,199 i Restated to classify the non-current portions of derivative financial instruments from current assets and liabilities to non-current assets and liabilities.
The restated carrying value and fair value of derivative financial instruments in 2007 is 1,088 million asset and 1,517 million liability.
Securities Securities comprise Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and available-for-sale financial assets.
The fair values of securities are based on quoted market prices, when available.
If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data.
3 million of the amounts held as available-for-sale financial assets is ring-fenced within the regulated insurance entity, Centrica Insurance Company Limited, and is not available for use by the rest of the Group 2008: nil.
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings The fair values of bonds are based on quoted market prices.
The fair values of bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest.
The fair values of overdrafts and commercial paper are assumed to equal their book values due to the short-term nature of these amounts.
The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting contractual cash flows with reference to the Groups cost of borrowing.
Other financial instruments Due to their nature and or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 119 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 119 8 3 10 11:38:31 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments and energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss The fair values of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives are determined by reference to closing market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of energy derivatives are determined using valuation techniques based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates not currently supported by observable market data.
The extent to which fair values of energy derivatives are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
The Group has judged each of the markets in which it operates as active for the purposes of accounting as follows: Active period of markets Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil UK years 2 2 3 2 3 North America years 5 Up to 5 n a n a n a Europe years n a Up to 5 n a n a n a The fair values of energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 that settle inside the active period of the market are based on quoted market prices and expected volumes, discounted at a rate of 1% 2008: 3%.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices.
In the UK, however, certain energy contracts extend beyond the active period of the market.
The fair values of energy contracts that extend beyond the active period of the market are determined by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets, and in part by using valuation techniques based on commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on internal market expectations and expected volumes, discounted using a discount rate of 3% for 2008.
The net fair value of energy contracts recorded in the Financial Statements determined using valuation techniques based on non-observable market variables at 31 December 2008 was a 272 million liability.
The total change in fair value of energy contracts estimated using valuation techniques, based on variables not supported by market prices, recognised in the Income Statement during the year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to a gain of 17 million.
While internal market forecasts outside the active period of the market reasonably reflect all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, these expectations are not currently supportable by active forward market quotes.
The fair values of these contracts would change significantly if the assumptions in respect of gas, power, coal, emissions or oil prices were changed to reasonably possible alternatives.
The impacts of reasonably possible changes to assumed gas, power, coal, emissions and oil prices on the net fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments determined using valuation models based on non-observable market data are as follows: 2008 Reasonably possible Energy price change in variable UK gas p therm -14 UK power MWh -10 UK coal US$ tonne -25 UK emissions tonne -4 UK oil US$ bbl -15 2008 Increase decrease in fair value m UK energy prices increase decrease 179 175 The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing energy contracts in relation to gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the balance sheet date.
The fair value impacts only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and are marked-to-market based on valuation models using assumptions that are not currently observable in an active market.
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution, as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of energy contracts changes.
Changes in fair values based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated as the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value may not be linear.
indd 120 8 3 10 11:38:31 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a day-one gain or loss will arise.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available see note 2 for further detail.
The amount that has yet to be recognised in the Income Statement relating to the difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the amount that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: 2009 2008 Net deferred gains losses m m 1 January 51 166 Net gains losses deferred on new transactions 74 128 Recognised in the Income Statement during the period 63 89 31 December 86 51 Fair value hierarchy Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value are classified into one of three categories: Level 1 Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities, for example exchange-traded commodity contracts valued using close-of-day settlement prices.
The adjusted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
Level 2 Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be either directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data, for example over-the-counter energy contracts within the active period valued using broker quotes or third-party pricing services and foreign exchange or interest rate derivatives valued using quotes corroborated with market data.
Level 3 Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internallydeveloped methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value, for example energy contracts within the inactive period valued using in-house valuation techniques.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 121 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 121 8 3 10 11:38:31 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued The fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at 31 December 2009 was as follows: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives 46 550 64 660 Interest rate derivatives 72 72 Foreign exchange derivatives 2 74 76 Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit and loss 104 104 Debt instruments 62 56 118 Equity instruments 17 11 28 Total financial assets 231 752 75 1,058 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives 198 1,954 490 2,642 Interest rate derivatives 15 15 Foreign exchange derivatives 93 93 Total financial liabilities 198 2,062 490 2,750 There were no significant transfers out of Level 1 into Level 2 and out of Level 2 into Level 1 during 2009.
The reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements during the period is as follows: Equity instruments Energy derivatives 2009 m m m Level 3 financial assets 1 January 3 399 402 Total realised and unrealised losses recognised in profit or loss 247 247 Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 88 88 Acquisitions 8 8 31 December 11 64 75 Total gains for the period for Level 3 financial assets held at the end of the reporting period 64 64 Gains or losses for the period above are presented in the Income Statement and Statement of Other Comprehensive Income as follows: Exceptional items Other and certain comprehensive re-measurements income Total m m m Total losses for the period 247 247 Total gains for the period for assets held at the end of the reporting period 64 64 Energy derivatives 2009 m m Level 3 financial liabilities 1 January 568 568 Total realised and unrealised losses: Recognised in profit or loss 54 54 Recognised in other comprehensive income 9 9 Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 141 141 31 December 490 490 Total losses for the period for Level 3 financial liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 490 490 12 2 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 122 8 3 10 11:38:31 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 29.
Fair value of financial instruments continued Losses for the period above are presented in the Income Statement and Statement of Other Comprehensive Income as follows: Exceptional items Other and certain comprehensive re-measurements income Total m m m Total losses for the period 54 9 63 Total losses for the period for liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 484 6 490 The impacts of reasonably possible changes to assumed gas, power, coal, emissions and oil prices on the net fair value of the Groups fair value measurements categorised as Level 3 are as follows: 2009 Reasonably possible Energy price change in variable UK gas p therm -10 UK power MWh -5 UK coal US$ tonne -20 UK emissions tonne -3 UK oil US$ bbl -19 2009 Increase decrease in fair value m UK energy prices increase decrease 17 17 The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing energy contracts in relation to gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Called up share capital 2009 2008 m m Authorised share capital of the Company 14 14 i 9,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 p each 2008: 7,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 p each 556 432 81 81 100,000 cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each 2008: 100,000 shares of 1 each Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 14 14 5,132,054,073 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 2008: 5,107,658,569 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 317 315 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company for the year was as follows: 2009 2008 Number Number 1 January 5,107,658,569 3,679,980,311 ii Rights Issue 1,392,789,173 iii Issued under employee share schemes 24,395,504 34,889,085 31 December 5,132,054,073 5,107,658,569 i At a General Meeting of the Company held on 11 May 2009, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from 432 million to 556 million by the creation of 2,000,000,000 ordinary 14 shares of nominal value of 6 81 pence each, forming a single class with the existing ordinary shares.
ii On 31 October 2008, the Company announced a Rights Issue, which was approved by shareholders on 21 November 2008, on the basis of three new ordinary shares for every eight ordinary shares 14 held at 160 pence per share, all with a nominal value of 6 81 pence each.
The Company raised proceeds of approximately 2,164 million, net of issue costs of approximately 65 million.
The last day for acceptance was 12 December 2008 and dealing in new ordinary shares fully paid commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 15 December 2008. iii Ordinary shares were allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options, share incentive schemes, the Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 123 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 123 8 3 10 11:38:32 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 30.
Called up share capital continued 2009 2008 Number 24,395,504 34,889,085 Nominal value m 1.5 2.2 Consideration m net of issue costs of nil 2008: nil 30 38 The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2009 was 281.10 pence 2008: 266.00 pence.
Centrica employee share ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive newly issued shares to satisfy future obligations of certain employee share schemes.
During the year the trusts purchased 1.9 million shares 2008: 1.0 million, received 7.2 million newly allotted shares 2008: 6.5 million and released 6.8 million shares 2008: 4.5 million shares to employees on vesting.
At 31 December 2009 the trusts held 5.9 million shares 2008: 3.6 million shares at a carrying amount of 15 million 2008: 10 million.
Until such time as the Companys own shares held by these trusts vest unconditionally, the amount paid for those shares, or the value they were issued at, are held as treasury shares and are deducted from shareholders equity.
Accumulated other comprehensive loss income AvailableForeign Actuarial for-sale Cash flow currency gains and revaluation hedging translation losses reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m 1 January 2009 15 219 24 218 40 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 83 83 Recycling of foreign exchange on disposal of business 10 10 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations note 36 804 804 Net gains on revaluation of available-for-sale securities 11 11 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 253 253 Transferred to income and expense 234 234 Transferred to assets and liabilities 4 4 Taxation on above items 2 12 41 241 186 31 December 2009 6 244 8 345 587 AvailableForeign Actuarial for-sale Cash flow currency gains and revaluation hedging translation losses reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m 1 January 2008 3 51 14 506 546 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 19 10 29 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations note 36 399 399 Net losses on revaluation of available-for-sale securities 19 19 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 318 318 Transferred to income and expense 30 30 Transferred to assets and liabilities 1 1 Taxation on above items 1 96 111 208 31 December 2008 15 219 24 218 40 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments, offset by exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Exchange losses of 22 million 2008: 175 million gains on net investments in overseas undertakings have been offset in reserves against exchange gains of 105 million 2008: 185 million losses on foreign currency borrowings and other instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Note 23 provides further detail on cash flow hedging.
indd 124 8 3 10 11:38:32 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 31.
Accumulated other comprehensive loss income continued 2009 2008 Analysis of transfers from cash flow hedging reserve to Income Statement by line item m m Gross loss profit 235 30 Net interest income 1 234 30 The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation to commodity, interest rate and currency hedges, is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Within one year 173 147 Between one and five years 75 79 After five years 4 7 244 219 The maturity profile reflects the timing of expected transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Income Statement as and when the hedged item affects the Income Statement which is, for the most part, on delivery of physical volumes for energy contracts and the accrual of interest for debt contracts.
Other equity Share-based Capital Revaluation Treasury payments Merger redemption reserve shares reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m 1 January 2009 10 10 66 467 16 549 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 7 7 Exercise of awards 2 30 28 Value of services provided 38 38 Reclassification as subsidiary 144 144 Disposal of subsidiaries 126 126 Taxation on above items 12 12 Exchange adjustments 2 1 1 31 December 2009 26 15 87 467 16 581 Share-based Capital Revaluation Treasury payments Merger redemption Total reserve shares reserve reserve reserve m m m m m m 1 January 2008 10 2 51 467 16 542 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 9 9 Exercise of awards 1 25 24 Value of services provided 40 40 Rights Issue 2,078 2,078 Transfer 2,078 2,078 31 December 2008 10 10 66 467 16 549 Merger reserve On 17 February 1997, BG plc formerly British Gas plc demerged certain businesses grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited GBGH to form Centrica plc.
Prior to demerger, the companies comprising the Centrica businesses were transferred to GBGH, a subsidiary undertaking of BG plc.
Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders.
In accordance with sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the shares issued.
On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Companys shares issued and the amount of share capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve.
On 15 December 2008, a Rights Issue was completed and 1,392,789,173 new ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of approximately 86 million were issued for cash consideration of 2,164 million, net of issue costs of 65 million.
The Rights Issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
Centrica plc issued shares in exchange for shares in Centrica CB Limited, which subsequently redeemed its no par value redeemable preference shares for cash.
Following the receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds received over the nominal value of the share capital issued has been transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 125 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 125 8 3 10 11:38:32 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 32.
Other equity continued Capital redemption reserve In accordance with section 170 1 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled.
Revaluation reserve During 2005 the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Centrica SHB Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake in the company, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
During 2009 the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Segebel S. A. and producing gas and oil assets located in Alberta, Canada, following the acquisition by the Group of additional interests note 37, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
The subsequent disposal of Segebel S. A. note 38 resulted in a transfer of the revaluation gain relating to this investment to retained earnings.
Treasury shares reserve The treasury shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held in share-based payment plans to meet future obligations to deliver shares to employees on vesting.
Share-based payments reserve The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to employees under the Groups share schemes in return for services provided.
Minority interests 2009 2008 m m 1 January 60 59 i Acquisition of new business 802 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 12 1 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1 i Purchase of minority interests 201 Dividends paid 11 i Disposal of business 589 Exchange adjustments 11 31 December 63 60 i Includes minority interests relating to the acquisition of Venture Production plc Venture which were eliminated from 9 November 2009 when Venture became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group and minority interests relating to the acquisition and subsequent disposal of Segebel S. A.
Minority interests at 31 December 2009 relate primarily to a 30% economic interest 2008: 30% held by Lloyds TSB Bank plc in GF Two Limited formerly Goldfish Holdings Limited and its subsidiary, GF One Limited formerly Goldfish Bank Limited.
Minority interests share of profit from operations after taxation can be analysed as follows: 2009 2008 Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Results for Business items and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year m m m m m m Continuing operations 2 2 1 1 Discontinued operations 48 38 10 50 38 12 1 1 12 6 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 126 8 3 10 11:38:33 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 34.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement 2009 2008 restated i a Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities m m Continuing operations Group operating profit including share of result of joint ventures and associates 1,175 661 Less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 1 9 Group operating profit before share of profits of joint ventures and associates 1,174 652 Add back deduct : Amortisation and write-down of intangible assets 209 117 Depreciation and write-down of property, plant and equipment 708 513 Employee share scheme costs 38 35 Profit on sale of businesses 54 Movement in provisions 301 7 Pension service cost 74 109 Pension contributions 403 240 ii Re-measurement of energy contracts 135 1,302 Unrealised foreign exchange losses gains on operating cash and cash equivalents 1 3 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 2,183 2,478 Decrease increase in inventories 35 143 iii Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 781 1,312 iii Increase in trade and other payables 83 372 Cash generated from continuing operations 3,082 1,395 Income taxes paid 329 374 Net petroleum revenue tax paid 174 533 Interest received 13 23 Interest paid 3 47 Payments relating to exceptional charges 203 74 Net cash flow from continuing operating activities 2,386 390 Discontinued operations Operating loss including share of result of joint ventures and associates 46 203 Less share of loss profit of joint ventures and associates 2 3 Operating loss before share of joint ventures and associates 44 206 Add back deduct : Amortisation and write-down of intangible assets 41 57 Depreciation and write-down of property, plant and equipment 25 2 Movement in provisions 25 3 Re-measurement of energy contracts 49 67 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 96 83 Decrease in inventories 7 Decrease increase in receivables 337 63 Decrease increase in payables 168 53 Income taxes paid 10 Interest paid 1 Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities 261 93 Net cash flow from operating activities 2,647 297 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation, as explained in note 38 and to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2. ii Adds back unrealised losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts, including those related to proprietary trading activities.
iii Includes net outflow of 79 million of cash collateral in 2009 2008: net outflow of 556 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 127 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 127 8 3 10 11:38:33 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 34.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement continued 2009 2008 b Net debt m m Current borrowings note 26 86 330 Non-current borrowings note 26 4,594 3,218 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 1,294 2,939 Securities current 74 63 Securities non-current 176 35 3,136 511 2009 2008 c Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt m m Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,569 1,778 Cash and cash equivalents of disposal groups classified as held for sale 19 1,588 1,778 Add back deduct : Net purchase of securities 128 22 Cash inflow from additional debt 1,887 1,513 Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases 22 20 Cash outflow from repayment of other debt 872 175 2,453 482 Revaluation of: Securities 14 19 Loans and other borrowings 15 82 2,424 381 Increase in interest payable on loans and other borrowings 25 9 Acquisitions 477 19 Disposals 298 Exchange adjustments 4 72 Other non-cash movements 1 3 Movement in net debt 2,625 284 Net debt at 1 January 511 795 Net debt at end of period 3,136 511 North 2008 UK America Other 2009 restated i d Relationship between current tax charge and taxes paid m m m m m Current tax charge: Corporation tax 154 9 13 158 408 Petroleum revenue tax 112 112 517 266 9 13 270 925 Taxes paid: Corporation tax 245 29 55 329 374 Petroleum revenue tax 174 174 533 419 29 55 503 907 i Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Groups operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation note 38.
Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors: UK corporation tax is paid, based on estimated profits, partly during the year and partly in the following year.
Fluctuations in profits from year to year may therefore give rise to divergence between the charge for the current year and taxes paid: and petroleum revenue tax payments are based on income realised in the preceding period, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual profits.
Variations in production from period to period may therefore lead to temporary differences between tax charged and tax paid.
indd 128 8 3 10 11:38:33 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 35.
Share-based payments Employee share schemes are designed to encourage participants to align their objectives with those of shareholders.
Centrica operates nine main employee share schemes: the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, the Sharesave Scheme Sharesave, the Share Award Scheme SAS, the Restricted Share Scheme RSS, the Share Incentive Plan SIP, the Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP and the Deferred Bonus Plan 2009 DBP.
On 15 December 2008, the Company raised proceeds of 2,164 million, net of issue costs of 65 million, through a Rights Issue as explained in notes 30 and 32.
The number of shares allocated to employees under the Groups share schemes has been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
The terms of the Groups employee share schemes were adjusted such that participants of the various plans were no better or worse off as a result of the Rights Issue.
Consequently, no additional expense was or will be recognised as a result of changes to the Groups employee share schemes.
Details of the adjustments made to the terms of the Groups employee share schemes as a result of the Rights Issue are provided in sections b and c below.
a Summary of share-based payment plans and movements in the number of shares and options outstanding DMSS Awards under the DMSS are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
The scheme operates over a four-year vesting period.
Under normal conditions the grant date of the scheme is the first day of each bonus year.
This is followed by a vesting period of four years, being the bonus year plus a three-year performance period.
The fair value of the award reflects the market value of the shares at the grant date.
The scheme comprises three separate elements: i Deferred shares The scheme requires participants to defer between 20% and 40% of their annual pre-tax bonus into the scheme.
The shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period, during which time they cannot be withdrawn.
An employee who leaves prior to the vesting date will forfeit their right to the shares except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
All shares held in trust will be eligible to receive dividends.
The number of shares deferred is estimated from the participants maximum bonus and the likelihood of bonus payout in the bonus year.
Subsequent revisions are made based on the actual bonus paid in the year.
ii Investment shares The scheme allows participants to elect to invest an additional amount of their annual bonus into the scheme up to a maximum of 50% of their total potential after-tax bonus for the year.
This 50% limit includes the amount automatically deferred each year pre-tax.
The number of shares invested is estimated based on the maximum bonus in year one.
The shares may be funded directly from the employee or through a release of the employees LTIS shares at the Companys discretion, and thus the shares do not attract an IFRS 2 charge.
Subsequent to the bonus year, the shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period and will vest unconditionally.
Participants can withdraw the investment shares unconditionally at any point throughout the vesting period, although the related matching shares will be forfeited.
The shares are eligible to receive dividends.
iii Matching shares Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional matching shares, which will be released upon the achievement, over a three-year performance period, of three-year Group Economic Profit performance targets.
Group Economic Profit is calculated by taking Group operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements after tax and subtracting a charge for capital employed based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The number of matching shares that will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis from a zero match for no growth in Economic Profit up to a two-times match for growth of 25% or more.
The number of investment matching shares, subject to the performance conditions, is grossed up to reflect the impact of tax and employees National Insurance contributions.
The number of matching shares released following the satisfaction of the performance conditions will be increased to reflect the dividends that would have been paid during the three-year performance period.
The likelihood of achieving the performance conditions is taken into account in calculating the number of awards expected to vest.
Estimates are made in year one and revised in subsequent years.
The number of shares originally granted and fair value allocated are estimated on the grant date and then adjusted following the announcement of the actual annual performance bonus and subsequent investment by participants.
Details of the fair values of awards granted and related assumptions are included in section c below.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations of deferred and matching shares actually made is shown below: 2009 2008 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of year 6,564,395 3,393,500 Granted 5,707,931 3,425,689 Forfeited 847,211 254,794 Outstanding at end of year 11,425,115 6,564,395 Vested at end of year i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 30 and 32.
There were no shares released during the year or in 2008.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 129 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 129 8 3 10 11:38:33 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 35.
Share-based payments continued ESOS Under the ESOS, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares at the legal date of grant which approximates, or is the same as, the grant date for accounting purposes, and are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
Options granted under the ESOS will become exercisable in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the growth in EPS over that period exceeding RPI growth by 18% or more.
The number of options becoming exercisable is determined on a straight-line basis between 40% and 100% if EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by between 9% and 18%.
The exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
Performance conditions are non-market based and therefore not included in the fair value calculations.
Early exercise has been taken into account by estimating the expected life of the options.
Details of the fair values of awards granted and related assumptions are included in section b below.
A reconciliation of option movements is as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted average Weighted average Number i exercise price i Number i exercise price i Outstanding at start of year 17,986,135 2.09 21,953,085 2.07 ii Granted 336,012 2.56 Exercised 6,242,045 1.95 3,199,991 1.94 Forfeited 564,379 2.33 1,102,971 2.25 Outstanding at end of year 11,179,711 2.15 17,986,135 2.09 Exercisable at end of year 11,179,711 2.15 13,031,276 1.92 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 and the corresponding weighted average exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 30 and 32. ii Options granted in 2008 relate to a special grant of options that vested and became exercisable immediately.
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price was 2.57 2008: 2.81.
The 2008 share price was adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
indd 130 8 3 10 11:38:34 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 35.
Share-based payments continued LTIS Under the LTIS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are generally reserved for employees at senior management level.
The number of shares to be released to participants is calculated subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR and EPS growth during the three years following the grant date.
Shares are released to participants immediately following the end of the period in which performance is assessed, however release of shares is subject to continued employment within the Group at the date of release except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
The vesting of half of each award is made on the basis of TSR performance.
For this half of the award, the calculation of TSR performance is compared with the TSR of other shares in the FTSE 100.
Allocations are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of shares released is determined on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 20th.
The vesting of the remaining half of awards is dependent on EPS growth.
This is considered a non-market condition under IFRS 2.
Additional shares for both TSR and EPS portions are awarded or a cash payment is made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the performance period.
The fair value of the awards is therefore considered to be the market value at the grant date.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 2009 2008 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of year 26,497,144 22,272,975 Granted 13,110,621 13,026,508 Released 6,318,952 3,882,647 Forfeited performance related 1,084,261 2,649,148 Forfeited non-performance related 2,236,299 2,270,544 Outstanding at end of year 29,968,253 26,497,144 Vested at end of year 82,632 264,143 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the year, the weighted average share price was 2.32 2008: 2.72.
Sharesave Under Sharesave, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to all UK-based employees of the Group.
To date, the Board has approved the grant of options with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for the three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a fixed amount from salary into a savings account each month, and may elect to save over three and or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months in which to exercise their options using the funds saved.
If employees decide not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved, and the options expire six months after maturity.
Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted average Weighted average Number i exercise price i Number i exercise price i Outstanding at start of year 38,186,565 2.20 57,663,048 1.58 Granted 25,102,695 1.94 15,823,636 2.27 Exercised 8,881,843 1.98 30,637,590 1.08 Forfeited 8,376,276 2.27 4,603,041 1.76 Expired 377,764 2.03 59,488 1.28 Outstanding at end of year 45,653,377 2.09 38,186,565 2.20 Exercisable at end of year 15,546 2.05 144,015 1.13 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 and the corresponding weighted average exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 131 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 131 8 3 10 11:38:34 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 35.
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 2.36 2008: 2.64.
SAS Under the SAS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to selected employees at middle management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources.
There is no contractual eligibility for SAS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme in two stages half of the award vesting after two years, the other half vesting after three years.
On vesting, additional shares are awarded or a cash payment is made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the vesting period.
The fair value is therefore considered to be the market value at date of grant.
A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2009 2008 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of year 3,606,533 2,768,440 Granted 3,369,583 1,787,004 Released 1,190,691 685,573 Forfeited 298,292 263,338 Outstanding at end of year 5,487,133 3,606,533 Vested at end of year i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of release was 2.31 2008: 2.71.
RSS Awards under the RSS are normally reserved for certain selected key employees, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources.
Neither the Executive Directors nor the next tier of executive management are eligible to participate.
There is no contractual eligibility for RSS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme in one or two stages dependent on the individual awards.
indd 132 8 3 10 11:38:34 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 35.
Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2009 2008 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of year 400,708 408,597 Granted 817,519 32,795 Released 166,897 40,684 Forfeited 9,791 Outstanding at end of year 1,041,539 400,708 Vested at end of year i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of release was 2.35 2008: 2.69.
SIP Under SIP, employees in the UK may purchase partnership shares through monthly salary deductions.
The Company then awards one matching share for every two partnership shares purchased, up to a maximum of 22 matching shares per employee per month increased in 2009 from 20 to 22 matching shares to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Both partnership shares and matching shares are held in a trust.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, however matching shares are forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within three years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for three years in the trust.
Vesting of matching shares is also subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
Matching shares are valued at the market price at the grant date.
A reconciliation of matching shares held in trust is as follows: 2009 2008 Number i Number i ii Unvested at start of year 1,773,152 1,785,021 Granted 996,604 730,122 Released 504,163 637,681 Forfeited 127,116 104,310 Unvested at end of year 2,138,477 1,773,152 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 30 and 32. ii Amounts in 2008 have been restated to include only unvested matching shares.
For shares released during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of release was 2.52 2008: 2.77.
ESPP Under the ESPP, employees in North America may purchase partnership shares through salary deductions.
The Company then awards one matching share for every two partnership shares two years from the date the corresponding partnership shares were purchased.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, however the entitlement to matching shares is forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within two years from the original purchase date.
Awards of matching shares are also subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
A reconciliation of matching shares granted is as follows: 2009 2008 Number i Number i Unvested at start of year 476,088 383,230 Granted 517,707 287,300 Released 227,078 151,024 Forfeited 150,174 43,418 Unvested at end of year 616,543 476,088 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of release was 2.45 2008: 2.75.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 133 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 133 8 3 10 11:38:35 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 35.
Share-based payments continued DBP Awards under the DBP are generally reserved for a selected group of employees.
The plan operates over a three-year vesting period.
Under normal conditions the grant date of the plan is the first day of each bonus year.
This is followed by a vesting period of three years, being the bonus year plus a two-year employment period.
The plan allows participants to elect to defer up to 100% of their annual bonus into the plan.
Bonuses can be deferred on a pretax basis as bonus awards or a post-tax basis as bonus shares.
Bonus awards do not have entitlements to voting or dividend rights until the shares are transferred to them whereas bonus shares entitle participants to all the rights of a shareholder.
Unless it is determined otherwise at grant, an employee who leaves prior to the vesting date will not forfeit their rights to bonus awards although vesting will usually be accelerated and time-apportioned.
Participants can withdraw the bonus shares at any point throughout the vesting period, although the related matching awards will be forfeited.
The Company awards one and a half shares as a matching award for every bonus award and bonus share purchased.
Matching awards vest unconditionally for employees after being held for two years.
Vesting of matching awards is also subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the plan.
Matching awards are valued at the market price on the grant date.
Details of the fair values of awards granted under IFRS 2 and related assumptions are included in section c below.
As 2009 was the first year in which the plan became operational, there were no bonus awards, bonus shares or related matching awards legally granted under the plan.
b Fair values and associated details of options granted Sharesave ESOS 2009 2008 2009 2008 i Number of options granted 25,102,695 15,823,636 336,012 i Weighted average fair value at grant date 0.49 0.65 0.60 i Weighted average share price at grant date 2.30 2.71 2.91 i Weighted average exercise price 1.94 2.27 2.56 ii Expected volatility 29% 23% 23% Contractual option life 4.3 years 4.4 years 10 years Expected life 4.3 years 4.1 years 5 years Vesting period 4 years 4.1 years Expected dividend yield 5.00% 3.50% 4.20% iii Risk-free interest rate 2.43% 4.08% 4.30% Expected forfeitures 31% 32% 0% i For options granted prior to 14 November 2008 amounts have been adjusted to take account of the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 30 and 32. ii The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
iii The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life.
indd 134 8 3 10 11:38:35 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 35.
Share-based payments continued c Fair values and associated details of shares granted 2009 DMSS LTIS SAS RSS SIP ESPP DBP Number of equity instruments granted 5,031,994 13,110,621 3,369,583 817,519 996,604 517,707 1,750,267 Weighted average fair value at grant date 2.81 1.65 2.22 2.53 2.45 2.45 2.81 Expected performance lapses 0% n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Vesting period 4 years 3 years 2.5 years 1 year 3 years 2 years 3 years ii Expected volatility n a 31% n a n a n a n a n a Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 20% 2% 0% 20% 0% iii Risk-free rate n a 2.2% n a n a n a n a n a Average volatility of FTSE 100 n a 31% n a n a n a n a n a iv Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 n a 39.8% n a n a n a n a n a 2008 DMSS LTIS SAS RSS SIP ESPP DBP i Number of equity instruments granted 5,707,931 13,026,508 1,787,004 32,795 730,122 287,300 i Weighted average fair value at grant date 2.27 2.00 2.71 2.47 2.69 2.96 Expected performance lapses 0% n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a n a Vesting period 4 years 3 years 2.5 years 3 years 3 years 2 years ii Expected volatility n a 22% n a n a n a n a Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 20% 25% 0% 20% iii Risk-free rate n a 4.05% n a n a n a n a Average volatility of FTSE 100 n a 27% n a n a n a n a iv Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 n a 30% n a n a n a n a i For options granted prior to 14 November 2008 amounts have been adjusted to take account of the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
iv The cross-correlation of the FTSE 100 has been obtained from a model which calculates the correlation between Centricas historical share price and each of the remaining FTSE 100 companies over the period commensurate with the performance period of the awards.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 135 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 135 8 3 10 11:38:35 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 36.
Pensions Pension schemes The majority of the Groups UK employees at 31 December 2009 were members of one of the three main schemes: the Centrica Pension Scheme, the Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme and the Centrica Pension Plan formerly known as the Centrica Management Pension Scheme together the registered pension schemes.
The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Pension Plan a final salary scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003 and 1 July 2003 respectively.
The Centrica Pension Scheme also has a career average salary section which was closed to new members with effect from 1 July 2008 and replaced by a defined contribution section which is open to new members.
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme final salary section was closed to new members from 1 April 2006, and a career average salary section was added to the scheme at that date.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes and are tax-approved funded arrangements.
They are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
On 1 January 2009 the majority of the active members of the Centrica Pension Scheme were transferred to the Centrica Pension Plan, and the liabilities and assets were accordingly transferred with effect from this date.
There was no tax effect arising on the transfer.
The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is an unfunded arrangement which provides benefits to certain employees whose benefits under the main schemes would otherwise be limited by the earnings cap.
The Group also has a commitment to provide certain pension and post-retirement benefits to employees of Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada under a defined benefit scheme.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the registered pension schemes at 31 March 2006, the Unapproved Pension Scheme at 6 April 2008 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited pension plan at 14 June 2008.
These have been updated to 31 December 2009 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
At the balance sheet date the actuarial valuation exercises of the registered pension schemes at 31 March 2009 were in progress, and were completed in February 2010.
The data used for the triennial actuarial valuation at 31 March 2009 has been incorporated in the IAS 19 defined benefit obligation of the registered schemes at 31 December 2009.
Investments have been valued for this purpose at market value.
Governance The UK-registered pension schemes are managed by trustee companies whose boards consist of both company-nominated and member-nominated directors.
Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund CCCIF, which holds the combined assets of the participating schemes.
The method of allocation of units is set out in the Trust Deed of the CCCIF.
The trustee of the CCCIF is a company, Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund Limited CCCIF Limited which was incorporated on 23 September 2002.
The trustee of the CCCIF may be appointed or removed by the participant schemes.
The board of CCCIF Limited is comprised of seven directors: one independent director, three directors appointed by Centrica plc including the chairman and one director appointed by each of the three participating schemes.
No direct investments are made in securities issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, property leased to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries or securities of any fund manager or any of their associated companies.
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc the Company and each trustee board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension scheme and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory funding objective.
This approach was first adopted for the triennial valuations completed at 31 March 2006 and was again reflected in the 31 March 2009 valuations.
In addition, the Group has a commitment to provide contributions to defined contribution schemes for certain employees in the UK and North America who are not members of one of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation % % Rate of increase in employee earnings 4.8 4.3 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.8 3.3 Discount rate 6.0 6.7 Inflation assumption 3.8 3.3 The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include a medium cohort allowance for future improvements in longevity, as published by the Institute of Actuaries.
The assumptions are equivalent to future longevity for members in normal health approximately as follows: 2009 2008 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 for a member: Years Years Years Years Currently aged 65 22.5 23.9 20.4 21.8 Currently aged 45 24.3 25.2 21.6 22.9 13 6 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 136 8 3 10 11:38:36 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 36.
Pensions continued At 31 March 2009, the date of the most recent actuarial review, the schemes had approximately 34,900 members and beneficiaries.
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension schemes.
2009 2008 Indicative Indicative effect on effect on Increase scheme Increase scheme decrease in liabilities decrease in liabilities Impact of changing material assumptions assumption % assumption % Rate of increase in employee earnings 0.25% -1 0.25% -2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% -5 0.25% -4 Discount rate 0.25% - 6 0.25% - 6 Inflation assumption 0.25% -6 0.25% -6 Longevity assumption 1 year -2 1 year -2 The expected rate of return and market value of the assets and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at 31 December were: 2009 2008 Expected rate Expected rate of return of return per annum Valuation per annum Valuation % m % m UK equities 8.3 1,101 8.5 884 Non-UK equities 8.3 1,106 8.5 996 High-yield debt 6.6 127 Fixed-interest bonds 6.0 524 6.3 404 Index-linked gilts 4.5 364 4.3 258 Property 8.0 55 7.2 55 Cash pending investment 6.1 256 6.7 45 Total fair value of plan assets 7.4 3,533 7.7 2,642 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,098 2,755 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 565 113 Associated deferred tax asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 158 30 Net pension liability 407 83 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet comprises: Surpluses 73 Deficits 565 186 565 113 The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held in each class and the expected returns on separate asset classes less costs of administering the plan and taxes paid by the plan itself.
The returns on separate asset classes were derived as follows: the expected rate of return on equities, high-yield debt and property are based on the expected median return over a 10-year period, as calculated by the independent company actuary.
The median return over a longer period than 10 years was not expected to be materially dissimilar.
The expected rate of return on fixed-interest bonds and index-linked gilts reflects yields directly observable on bond market indices.
The expected rate of return on cash pending investment reflects the average rate of return on the actual asset classes that the cash was invested in shortly after the year end.
Included within the schemes liabilities above are 31 million 2008: 24 million relating to unfunded pension arrangements.
Included within non-current securities are 48 million 2008: 26 million of investments, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme.
Based on the triennial valuation at 31 March 2009, the Company and the trustees of the registered pension schemes have agreed that, in addition to payments made in 2009, deficit payments will be made totalling 207 million in 2010, 106 million in 2011 and 57 million per annum from 2012 to 2016.
In addition, a charge over the Humber power station has been provided as additional security for the trustees.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 137 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 137 8 3 10 11:38:36 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 36.
Pensions continued 2009 2008 Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit m m i Current service cost continuing operations 68 106 Current service cost discontinued operations 2 Past service credit 3 Loss on curtailment 6 6 Net charge to operating profit 76 109 i In addition to current service cost on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also charged 3 million 2008: 2 million to operating profit in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
2009 2008 Analysis of the amount credited to notional interest m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 209 249 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 185 190 Net credit to notional interest income 24 59 2009 2008 Analysis of the actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 344 1,121 Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities 104 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 1,044 722 Actuarial loss to be recognised in accumulated other comprehensive loss, before adjustment for taxation 804 399 Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in reserves at 1 January, before adjustment for taxation 324 723 Cumulative actuarial losses gains recognised in reserves at 31 December, before adjustment for taxation 480 324 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Five-year history of surplus deficit m m m m m Plan assets 3,533 2,642 3,327 2,988 2,570 Defined benefit obligation 4,098 2,755 3,230 3,284 3,390 Surplus deficit 565 113 97 296 820 Five-year history of experience gains and losses 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 344 1,121 38 95 307 Percentage of scheme assets 9.7% 42.4% 1.1% 3.2% 11.9% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 104 16 145 21 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 2.5% 0.5% 4.4% 0.6% Total actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income: Amount m 804 399 284 475 126 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 19.6% 14.5% 8.8% 14.5% 3.7% 2009 2008 Movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year m m 1 January 2,755 3,230 Current service cost 70 106 Past service credit 3 Loss on curtailment 6 6 Interest on scheme liabilities 185 190 Plan participants contributions 30 26 Benefits paid from schemes 97 79 Benefits paid by company 1 1 Actuarial loss gain 1,148 722 Acquisitions of businesses note 37 63 Disposals of businesses 62 Exchange adjustments 1 2 31 December 4,098 2,755 13 8 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 138 8 3 10 11:38:36 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 36.
Pensions continued 2009 2008 Movement in plan assets during the year m m 1 January 2,642 3,327 Movements in the year: Expected return on scheme assets 209 249 Actuarial gain loss 344 1,121 i Employer contributions 403 240 Plan participants contributions 30 26 Benefits paid from schemes 97 79 Acquisitions of businesses note 37 46 Disposals of businesses 45 Exchange gains 1 31 December 3,533 2,642 i Includes nil 2008: 56 million related to exceptional charges recorded in prior years.
Estimated future employer contribution rates pensionable salary and percentage of pensionable salary for the year ended 31 December 2010 m % i Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 6 31.4 Centrica Pension Scheme Career average salary section 105 10.7 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Final salary section 186 19.7 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Career average salary section 67 9.5 Centrica Pension Plan Management section 71 20.7 Centrica Pension Plan 2008 section 119 19.5 i Contribution rates have been agreed in principle based on the 31 March 2009 triennial actuarial valuation.
37. Business combinations During the year the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Venture Production plc Venture and 50% of the issued share capital of Segebel S. A. Segebel.
Other smaller acquisitions are described in section c. The purchase method of accounting was adopted in all cases.
The assets and liabilities acquired and their fair values are shown below.
The residual excess of cash consideration over the net assets acquired on each acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the Financial Statements.
Unless otherwise stated, the fair values disclosed are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
a Venture During the period the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Venture for total consideration of 1,253 million in a series of transactions occurring between 18 March 2009 and 9 November 2009.
The Group obtained a controlling interest in Venture on i 27 August 2009, at which point 66.39% of the issued share capital had been acquired.
Venture was therefore consolidated as a subsidiary of the Group from this date.
The acquired business contributed a loss after taxation of 26 million for the period from 27 August 2009 to 31 December 2009.
For business combinations achieved in stages IFRS 3 requires that in determining the amount of goodwill arising, each exchange transaction be treated separately, using the cost of the transaction and fair value information at the date of each of the individual share purchase transactions.
Based on the fair value exercise undertaken it has been determined that the fair values of the assets and liabilities of Venture did not change materially between the dates of the various share purchase transactions.
As such, goodwill arising on the acquisition has been calculated by reference to the fair values of the assets and liabilities of Venture at the date control was obtained by the Group 27 August 2009. i A minority interest of 201 million was created at the acquisition date, which was fully purchased by 9 November 2009.
The minority interests share of profit after taxation between these dates was nil.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 139 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 139 8 3 10 11:38:37 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 37. Business combinations continued The book values of the assets and liabilities have been adjusted to align with the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments have been made principally in respect of the following items: Item Nature of adjustment Intangible assets Recognition of exploration and evaluation assets at fair value.
Property, plant and equipment Recognition of producing gas and oil field assets at fair value.
Interests in joint ventures and associates Write-down of certain investments deemed to be irrecoverable.
Trade and other payables: current Recognition at fair value of the current portion of operating lease contracts priced above market rates, as well as the recognition at fair value of certain liabilities in respect of sharebased payment awards due to be settled in cash.
Trade and other payables: non-current The recognition at fair value of the non-current portion of operating lease contracts priced above market rates.
Bank loans and other borrowings: non-current Recognition of certain debt and borrowings at fair value.
Deferred tax liabilities Recognition of deferred tax liabilities in respect of fair value adjustments.
Goodwill of 654 million has arisen principally in relation to the recognition of deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
Other factors that have resulted in goodwill include expected cost savings and synergies, forecast improvements in the management of the Groups existing upstream gas assets and an expectation of enhanced future developments of new oil and gas fields.
IFRS carrying values pre-acquisition Fair value.
m m Intangible assets exploration and evaluation assets 27 100 Intangible assets other 1 Property, plant and equipment producing gas and oil field assets 1,097 1,748 Property, plant and equipment other 3 3 Interests in joint ventures and associates 39 13 Trade and other receivables: non-current 7 Net derivative financial instruments: non-current 12 12 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 8 Inventories 5 8 Trade and other receivables: current 86 86 Net derivative financial instruments: current 37 37 Cash and cash equivalents 138 138 Trade and other payables: current 125 188 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: current 2 Trade and other payables: non-current 10 19 Bank loans and other borrowings: non-current 427 484 Deferred tax liabilities 339 648 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: non-current 214 214 Net assets acquired 344 599 Goodwill 654 Total consideration 1,253 Consideration comprises: Cash consideration 1,223 Transaction costs 30 14 0 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 140 8 3 10 11:38:37 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 37. Business combinations continued b Segebel On 20 January 2009 the Group acquired 50% of the issued share capital of Segebel for total consideration of 591 million 544 million, including deferred consideration of 70 million 62 million and transaction costs of 6 million 6 million, bringing the Groups total ownership interest in Segebel to 100%.
As explained in note 38, the Group disposed of its total interest in Segebel on 26 November 2009 for cash consideration of 1,325 million 1,205 million, recognising a gain on disposal of 297 million.
The additional interest in Segebel acquired on 20 January 2009 resulted in the Group acquiring a controlling interest in Segebel, and it was therefore consolidated as a subsidiary from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
Segebel holds a controlling stake of 51% in SPE S. A. SPE, a Belgian energy company.
As such, the acquisition also resulted in the Group obtaining a controlling interest in SPE.
The acquired business contributed a profit after taxation of 18 million for the period from 20 January 2009 to 26 November 2009, as included within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
The fair values of the consolidated assets and liabilities of Segebel, including 100% of the assets and liabilities of SPE as at the acquisition date, are disclosed below.
In order to calculate goodwill arising from the acquisition, the minority interests in SPE 49% are eliminated from the consolidated net assets in order to present the net assets attributable to Segebel, of which the Group acquired 50%.
The book values of the assets and liabilities have been adjusted to align with the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments have been made in respect of other intangible assets, primarily to recognise a nuclear power purchase agreement and contractual customer relationships at fair value, to property, plant and equipment in order to recognise power generation assets at their fair value, to trade and other receivables in order to recognise in-the-money own use energy procurement contracts at fair value, to trade and other payables in order to recognise out-of-the-money own use energy procurement contracts at fair value and to deferred tax in order to recognise amounts arising on the fair value adjustments made.
During the period the Directors reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
A number of revisions to the fair values disclosed in the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts were made.
The key factors that led to these fair value revisions are described below.
In addition to the revisions described below, other smaller revisions reduced the fair value of net assets of SPE by 5 million.
The revisions resulted in an overall reduction in the fair value of net assets of SPE at the date of acquisition of 22 million.
Increase decrease in fair value of net assets of SPE at acquisition date Key factors m Updated assumptions and estimates within the intangible assets valuation Other intangible assets 77 models for customer relationships and a power purchase agreement.
Property, plant and equipment Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of key inputs used in the valuation models for power generation assets.
13 Trade and other receivables Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of key inputs used in the valuation models for in-the-money own use energy procurement contracts.
8 Trade and other payables Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of key inputs used in the valuation models for out-of-the-money own use energy procurement contracts.
96 Updated assumptions and expectations in respect of key inputs used in the Derivative financial instruments valuation models for acquired energy procurement contracts.
45 Net deferred tax liabilities Changes in the fair value adjustments, resulting in a change in deferred tax liabilities arising as part of the business combination.
14 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 141 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 141 8 3 10 11:38:37 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 37. Business combinations continued Goodwill of 226 million arises principally in relation to incremental benefits expected to arise from the Pax Electrica II arrangements, as well as the recognition of deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
IFRS carrying values pre-acquisition Fair value m m Other intangible assets power purchase agreement 71 269 Other intangible assets customer contracts and customer relationships 108 200 Other intangible assets other 22 30 Property, plant and equipment power generation assets 296 903 Property, plant and equipment other 46 24 Trade and other receivables: non-current 43 195 Inventories 25 29 Trade and other receivables: current 435 520 Cash and cash equivalents 134 134 Trade and other payables: current 365 403 Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings: current 14 16 Net derivative financial instruments: current 65 75 Trade and other payables: non-current 44 Bank loans and other borrowings: non-current 88 88 Net derivative financial instruments: non-current 35 35 Deferred tax assets liabilities 22 315 Retirement benefit obligations 17 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: non-current 78 84 Net assets 100% 540 1,227 Minority interests in SPE 601 Net assets attributable to Segebel shareholders 51% 626 Net assets of SPE acquired 313 Other net assets of Segebel acquired cash and cash equivalents 5 Total net assets acquired 50% 318 Goodwill 226 Total consideration 544 Consideration comprises: Transaction costs 6 Deferred consideration paid during the period 62 Cash consideration 476 c Other acquisitions On 1 June 2009, the Group acquired additional interests in a number of producing oil and gas assets located in Alberta, Canada for cash consideration of C$44 million 25 million.
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired comprised 26 million for property, plant and equipment relating to the producing oil and gas assets, and 1 million in respect of the related decommissioning liability.
The Group does not have access to the vendors books and records which would include the assets and liabilities of the acquired interest at their pre-acquisition net book values and, hence, it is impracticable to disclose the carrying amounts on this basis.
No goodwill was recorded on this acquisition.
The Group also acquired Econergy Ltd on 31 March 2009 consideration 1 million, goodwill 1 million, Energy and Building Management Solutions Ltd on 29 May 2009 consideration 3 million, goodwill 3 million and Newnova Group Ltd on 28 July 2009 consideration 3 million including contingent consideration of 1 million, goodwill 3 million.
The acquired businesses contributed a profit after taxation of 1 million to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition up to 31 December 2009. d Pro forma results The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the 2009 acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the period, include revenue from continuing operations of 22,308 million compared to reported Group revenue of 21,963 million, excluding revenue in respect of Segebel which was sold during the period see note 38, and profit after taxation of 860 million compared to reported profit of 856 million.
In preparing the pro forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 January 2009 and inter-company transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group.
indd 142 8 3 10 11:38:37 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 38.
Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale On 11 May 2009, the Group announced that it had reached a definitive agreement with EDF to dispose of its 100% interest in Segebel S. A. Segebel for 1,325 million 1,205 million.
The disposal is linked to the acquisition of the 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions, owner of British Energy see note 19.
The Group acquired its controlling interest in Segebel on 20 January 2009, as described in note 37, and the disposal was completed on 26 November 2009 see note 38 c. In June 2009, in addition to the disposal of Segebel, management approved and initiated a plan to sell Oxxio B. V. Oxxio in the Netherlands and Centrica Energa S. L. Centrica Energa in Spain.
It is anticipated that the sale of Oxxio and Centrica Energa will complete by 30 June 2010.
On 11 December 2009, 50% of the issued share capital of GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited GLID, formerly known as Centrica Renewable Holdings Limited, was sold to the Trust Company of the West for 84 million.
Centrica has retained 50% of the issued share capital of GLID, which owns 100% of the issued share capital of both Glens of Foudland Limited and Lynn and Inner Dowsing Limited the owners and operators of the Glens of Foudland and Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms respectively.
Centricas investment in GLID is now being treated as a joint venture due to the joint control that arises from this transaction.
Centrica signed an agreement on 23 December 2009, with Dong Wind UK Limited and Siemens Project Ventures GmbH, to sell 50% of the issued share capital of Centrica Lincs Limited Lincs, the owner of the proposed Lincs wind farm.
The transaction was subject to conditions precedent, and hence the assets and liabilities associated with Lincs have been classified as assets held for sale from this date.
Post year end, the conditions precedent were fulfilled, and the transaction completed on 5 February 2010, as explained in note 42. a Discontinued operations As Segebel, Oxxio and Centrica Energa comprise the substantial majority of the European Energy segment, and the Groups complete downstream operations in those geographical areas, this segment was classified as a discontinued operation from 30 June 2009 Segebel was classified as a discontinued operation from 11 May 2009.
The remainder of the European Energy segment, being the Groups operations in Germany, remain as part of the Group and are reported within the Industrial and commercial segment.
A single amount is shown on the face of the Group Income Statement, comprising the after-tax result of the discontinued operations, and the prior period Income Statement has been restated.
An analysis of the results of the European Energy segment presented as discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement is as follows: 2009 2008 Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Results for Business items and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Revenue 2,357 2,357 471 471 Cost of sales before exceptional items and 2,008 2,008 475 475 certain re-measurements Re-measurement of energy contracts 123 123 80 80 Cost of sales 2,008 123 2,131 475 80 555 Gross profit 349 123 226 4 80 84 Operating costs before exceptional items 246 246 55 55 Exceptional items 24 24 67 67 Operating costs 246 24 270 55 67 122 Share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 2 4 2 7 4 3 Operating profit loss 105 151 46 52 151 203 Net interest expense 12 12 Profit loss from operations before taxation 93 151 58 52 151 203 Taxation on profit from operations 53 20 33 21 21 Profit loss after taxation from operations 40 131 91 52 130 182 Gain on disposal of Segebel after taxation 297 297 Profit loss after taxation from discontinued operations 40 166 206 52 130 182 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 8 204 196 52 130 182 Minority interests 48 38 10 40 166 206 52 130 182 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 143 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 143 8 3 10 11:38:38 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 38.
Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued b Disposal groups classified as held for sale Assets, and associated liabilities, that are expected to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use are classified as held for sale on the face of the Balance Sheet, and presented separately from the assets and liabilities of the Groups continuing operations.
No prior period Balance Sheet restatement is required for disposal groups classified as held for sale.
At 31 December 2009, the sale of Oxxio in the Netherlands, Centrica Energa in Spain, and the partial disposal of Centrica Lincs Limited in Upstream UK Power Generation had not completed and hence have been presented as held for sale on the face of the Balance Sheet as follows: Oxxio and Centrica Energa Other i 2009 m m m Goodwill 64 64 Other intangible assets 14 14 Property, plant and equipment 35 70 105 Deferred tax assets 3 3 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 7 7 Inventories 1 1 Trade and other receivables: current 240 1 241 Derivative financial instruments: current 24 24 Cash and cash equivalents 19 19 Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 406 72 478 Trade and other payables: current 264 1 265 Derivative financial instruments: current 64 3 67 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 18 18 Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 346 4 350 Net assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 60 68 128 ii Total shareholders equity 60 68 128 i Other is comprised predominantly of the assets and liabilities associated with Centrica Lincs Limited, the ultimate owner of a prospective wind farm off the Lincolnshire coast and power generation assets in Direct Energy.
ii The cumulative expense recognised directly in equity includes 10 million in the foreign currency translation reserve, relating to Centrica Energa and Oxxio.
Trade and other receivables include 171 million financial assets and 70 million non-financial assets.
96 million of financial trade and other receivables relate to residential customers, 70 million relate to business customers and 5 million relate to treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties.
Trade and other payables include 185 million financial liabilities and 80 million non-financial liabilities.
The fair value of financial instruments held by disposal groups classified as held for sale are equal to their carrying values.
The derivative financial instruments included in the Balance Sheet predominantly comprise energy derivatives held for trading under IAS 39 and relate to short-term forward market purchases and sales of electricity.
Net losses of 6 million associated with these derivatives were recognised in the Income Statement during 2009.
The derivative financial instruments held by discontinued operations are classified into the following fair value hierarchies as defined in note 29 : Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives held for trading under IAS 39 3 28 31 Total financial assets 3 28 31 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives held for trading under IAS 39 14 68 82 Foreign exchange derivatives 3 3 Total financial liabilities 17 68 85 14 4 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 144 8 3 10 11:38:38 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 38.
Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued c Disposals The disposal of the Groups 100% interest in Segebel on 26 November 2009 resulted in a profit on disposal, net of taxation, of 297 million.
As described in note 37, Segebel holds a controlling stake 51% in SPE S. A.
The disposal of 50% of the Groups interest in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited on 11 December 2009 resulted in a profit on disposal, net of taxation, of 49 million.
The profit on disposal arising from Segebel S. A. and GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited is as follows: GLID Wind Farms Segebel S. A. TopCo Limited m m i Non-current assets 2,118 338 ii Current assets 526 59 Current liabilities 254 59 Non-current liabilities 905 367 Net assets liabilities 1,485 29 Minority interests 590 Net assets liabilities attributable to Centrica disposed 895 14 Other net assets disposed loans 42 Total net assets disposed 895 28 Cash consideration 1,205 84 Net assets disposed 895 28 Disposal costs 25 7 Profit on disposal before taxation 285 49 Taxation on net investment hedges recycled to profit and loss 12 Profit on disposal after taxation 297 49 i Non-current assets of Segebel S. A. disposed of include 261 million of goodwill.
ii Includes cash and cash equivalents of 327 million in Segebel S. A. and 30 million in GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited.
Commitments and contingencies a Commitments 2009 2008 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment m m Construction of a power station at Langage 43 64 i Construction of Lincs wind farm 385 4 Redevelopment of Statfjord gas field 80 62 Other gas field developments 36 60 Other 19 80 563 270 i The Lincs wind farm has been classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date, and was disposed of on 5 February 2010, as described in note 42.
2009 2008 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets m m Renewable obligation certificates 1,446 1,058 Carbon emissions certificates 326 399 Certified emission reduction certificates 110 139 Exploration activity 205 25 Other 40 58 2,127 1,679 2009 2008 Commitments in relation to other contracts m m Liquefied natural gas capacity 675 783 Transportation capacity 689 829 Outsourcing of services 325 216 Other 444 355 2,133 2,183 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 145 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 145 8 3 10 11:38:38 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 39.
Commitments and contingencies continued 2009 2008 restated i Commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts m m ii Within one year 11,254 16,122 iii Between one and five years 22,295 24,023 After five years 14,524 11,210 48,073 51,355 i Restated to include an additional 920 million and 756 million of commodity commitments within one year and between one and five years respectively.
ii Includes 144 million 2008: 249 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38. iii Includes 112 million 2008: 202 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38.
The Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields, power stations, wind farms and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas and electricity contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The resulting monetary commitment is based on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to pay at estimated future prices.
The estimated commitment to make payments under gas procurement contracts differs in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note 22.
Only certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 22.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating principal values are estimated using valuation techniques.
Contractual commitments which are subject to fulfillment of conditions precedent are excluded.
2009 2008 Commitments by associates and joint ventures m m Share of associates commitments 302 Share of joint ventures commitments 2 304 b Decommissioning costs The Group has provided certain guarantees and indemnities to BG Group plc in respect of the decommissioning costs of the Morecambe gas fields.
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, have agreed to provide security, in respect of such guarantees and indemnities, to BG International Limited, which, as original licence holder for the Morecambe gas fields, will have exposure to decommissioning costs relating to the Morecambe gas fields should liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the Morecambe gas fields falls below 150% of the estimated cost of such decommissioning.
The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant Department of Business, Innovation and Skills formerly Department of Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform decommissioning notice in respect of the Morecambe gas fields has been revoked.
c Operating lease commitments At 31 December, the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods were: 2009 2008 m m i Within one year 109 126 ii Between one and five years 214 230 After five years 116 142 439 498 2009 2008 m m The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 31 December 19 14 Lease and sub-lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: Minimum lease payments 68 77 iii Contingent rents renewables 113 116 Contingent rents other 3 3 i Includes 2 million 2008: 1 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38. ii Includes 2 million 2008: 2 million in relation to discontinued operations, as described in note 38. iii The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable sources.
Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and therefore the commitment to a minimum lease payment included above is nil 2008: nil.
Payments made for physical power are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents.
indd 146 8 3 10 11:38:39 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 39.
Commitments and contingencies continued d Contingent liabilities There are no material contingent liabilities.
e Guarantees and indemnities In connection with the Groups energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay or provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in creditworthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2009 2008 Sale Purchase Sale Purchase of goods of goods Other of goods of goods Other and services and services transactions and services and services transactions m m m m m m Joint ventures: Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 22 1 12 1 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 17 13 GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited 9 Associates: Lake Acquisitions Limited 1 North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited 34 i The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 78 2 83 1 78 25 3 i The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund is no longer considered to be a related party.
Transactions with this entity are on an arms length basis.
Balances outstanding with related parties at 31 December were as follows: 2009 2008 Provision for bad Provision for bad or doubtful debt or doubtful debt Amounts owed relating to amounts Amounts owed relating to amounts from related Amounts owed to owed from related from related Amounts owed to owed from related parties related parties parties parties related parties parties m m m m m m Joint ventures: Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 11 5 16 4 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 21 3 32 8 GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited 41 26 Bacton Storage Company Limited 2 Associates: North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited 3 i The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 5 75 37 53 12 i The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund is no longer considered to be a related party.
2009 2008 Remuneration of key management personnel m m Short-term benefits 10 10 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 9 6 20 17 Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 13 individuals at 31 December 2009 2008: 15.
Key management personnel and their families purchase gas, electricity and home services products from the Group for domestic purposes on terms equal to those for other employees of the Group.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 147 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 147 8 3 10 11:38:39 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 41.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts Fixed-fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in the UK and home and business services customers in North America.
These contracts continue until cancelled by either party to the contract.
These plans incorporate both an annual service element and a maintenance element.
Insurance contracts are entered into with home service customers in the UK by British Gas Insurance Limited, an entity regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA since August 2009.
Product offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and electrical appliance insurance cover.
These contracts are normally for periods of 12 months with the option of renewal.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts protect purchasers of these contracts against the risk of breakdown of electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling and household appliances, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk from contract holders to Centrica.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however, generally include repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The risk and level of service required within these contracts is dependent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Accordingly, the timing and amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: one safety and maintenance inspection either annually or in every continuous two-year period, as set out in the agreement: no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work: and caps on certain maintenance and repair costs within fixed-fee service and insurance contracts.
Revenue from fixed-fee service and insurance contracts is recognised with regard to the incidence of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term.
Cost of sales relates directly to the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
The costs of claims under the fixed-fee service and insurance contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services.
These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can affect the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Centricas obligations under the terms of home services fixed-fee service and insurance contracts are based on the number of breakdowns occurring within the contract period.
Centrica actively manages the risk exposure of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: an initial service visit is performed for central heating care and insurance cover.
If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the fixed-fee service and insurance contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided: an annual or biennial safety and maintenance inspection is performed to ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant maintenance or breakdown issues: and caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into fixed-fee service and insurance contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of prevalence and cost to repair.
The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
Each incremental 1% increase in service requests would impact profit and equity by approximately 8 million 2008: 8 million.
The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and do not contain any embedded derivatives.
The fixed-fee service claims and insurance claims notified during the year were 305 million 2008: 291 million and 2 million 2008: nil respectively and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
Due to the short lead time between claims being incurred and claims being rectified, there are no material provisions outstanding at the balance sheet date 2008: nil.
2009 2008 restated i m m Total revenue 995 942 Expenses relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 803 754 Deferred income unearned premium 55 58 Accrued income 21 3 i Restated to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limiteds revenue recognition policy, as explained in note 2.
indd 148 8 3 10 11:38:39 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 42.
Events after the balance sheet date The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.14 pence per ordinary share totalling 470 million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
On 5 February 2010, 50% of the issued share capital of Centrica Lincs Limited Lincs was sold to Dong Wind UK Limited and Siemens Project Ventures GmbH for 50 million.
Centrica has retained 50% of the issued share capital of Lincs and Centricas investment in Lincs is accounted for as a joint venture from this date due to the joint control that arises from this transaction.
On 12 February 2010, the Group redeemed 250 million of debt with a maturity date of 12 December 2011.
On 25 February 2010, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire a portfolio of Trinidad and Tobago gas assets from Suncor Energy Inc. for approximately US$380 million 246 million in cash, subject to certain conditions being satisfied.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 149 CE7088 CentricaAR p062-160 Financial.
indd 149 8 3 10 11:38:40 Notes Notes to to th the e Financi Financial al Statement Statements s continued continued 43.
Principal undertakings Country of Percentage holding in ordinary 31 December 2009 incorporation formation shares and net assets Principal activity i Subsidiary undertakings Accord Energy Limited England 100 Proprietary energy trading Accord Energy Trading Limited England 100 Proprietary energy trading Bastrop Energy Partners LP USA 100 Power generation Brae Canada Ltd Canada 100 Investment company British Gas Insurance Limited England 100 Insurance services British Gas Services Limited England 100 Energy services British Gas Trading Limited England 100 Energy supply Caythorpe Gas Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage Centrica Barry Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Brigg Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Canada Limited Canada 100 Holding company and gas production Centrica Energy Operations Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KL Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Langage Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica PB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Renewable Energy Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company Centrica Resources Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Centrica Resources Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Upstream exploration Centrica Resources Norge AS Norway 100 Upstream exploration Centrica RPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica SHB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage CPL Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply DER Partnership 2 Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Bates LLC USA 100 Asset holding company Direct Energy Business LLC USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Marketing Inc USA 100 Wholesale energy trading Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy Partnership Canada 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Resources Partnership Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy Services LLC USA 100 Energy supply and home services ii Direct Energy US Home Services Inc USA 100 Holding company Dyno Holdings Limited England 100 Home services Energy America LLC USA 100 Energy supply Frontera Generation LP USA 100 Power generation GB Gas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England 100 Gas production iii NSGP Ensign Limited Jersey 100 Oil and natural gas development Paris Generation LP USA 100 Power generation The Centrica Gas Production LP England 100 Gas production iii Venture North Sea Gas Limited Scotland 100 Gas and oil production iii Venture North Sea Gas Exploration Limited England 100 Gas and oil production iii Venture North Sea Oil Limited Scotland 100 Gas and oil production iii Venture Production plc Scotland 100 Holding company WTU Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply i Joint ventures and associates Barrow Offshore Wind Limited England 50 Power generation Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited Scotland 50 Power generation iv GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited England 50 Renewable energy holding company iii Lake Acquisitions Limited England 20 Power generation iii NNB Holding Company Limited England 20 Power generation i All principal undertakings are held indirectly by the Company.
The information is only given for those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements.
ii Previously called Residential Services Group Inc. iii Interest acquired in 2009. iv Previously called Centrica Renewable Holdings Limited, as explained in note 38.
