ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2009 Ordinary shares of 5p each No.
b Under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan, 75.9m shares were held in trust on behalf of 76,678 participants who were beneficially entitled to the shares.
234m shares were held in the corporate nominee BT Group EasyShare on behalf of 106,296 beneficial owners.
c 198m shares were represented by ADSs.
Analysis by size of holding is not available for this holding.
d 406m shares were held as treasury shares.
e 12.8% of the shares were in 1,145,398 individual holdings, of which 86,257 were joint holdings, and 87.2% of the shares were in 22,870 institutional holdings.
As far as the company is aware, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by the UK Government or any other foreign government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly.
There are no arrangements known to the company the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company.
At 8 May 2009, there were 8,151,227,027 ordinary shares outstanding including 406,435,127 shares held as treasury shares.
At the same date, approximately 20m ADSs equivalent to 200m ordinary shares, or approximately 2.5% of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding on that date were outstanding and were held by 2,426 record holders of ADRs.
At 31 March 2009, there were 3,676 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders.
Dividends A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 was paid on 15 September 2008 to shareholders on the register on 22 August 2008, and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 was paid on 9 February 2009 to shareholders on the register on 30 December 2008.
The final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 7 September 2009 to shareholders on the register on 14 August 2009.
The dividends paid or payable on BT shares and ADSs for the last five financial years are shown in the following table.
The dividends on the ordinary shares exclude the associated tax credit.
The amounts shown are not those that were actually paid to holders of ADSs.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid see Taxation of dividends on page 156.
Dividends have been translated from pounds Sterling into US dollars using exchange rates prevailing on the date the ordinary dividends were paid.
The US dollar amount of the final dividend of 100 pence per ADS to be paid to holders of ADSs will be based on the exchange rate in effect on 8 September 2009, the date of payment to holders of ordinary shares.
As dividends paid by the company are in pounds Sterling, exchange rate uctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Depositary of such cash dividends.
Dividend mandate Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Shareholder Helpline see page 159.
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Alternatively, a form may be downloaded from the Dividends page of our website at www.
com investorcentre 150 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Dividend investment plan Under the Dividend investment plan, cash from participants dividends is used to buy further BT shares in the market.
Shareholders could elect to receive additional shares in lieu of a cash dividend for the following dividends: Date paid Price per share pence 2005 interim 7 February 2005 209.95 2005 final 5 September 2005 220.25 2006 interim 13 February 2006 214.50 2006 final 11 September 2006 250.98 2007 interim 12 February 2007 320.54 2007 final 17 September 2007 316.21 2008 interim 11 February 2008 232.08 2008 final 15 September 2008 174.38 2009 interim 9 February 2009 107.04 Global Invest Direct Details of the direct purchase plan run by the ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Global Invest Direct, including reinvestment of dividends, are available from JPMorgan Chase Bank on 1 800 428 4237 toll free within the USA, or on written request to the ADR Depositary.
Total shareholder return Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Over the last five years as shown in the first TSR chart below, BTs TSR is negative 40.5% compared with the FTSE 100 TSR of positive 7.0%.
BTs poor TSR performance is largely due to the volatile share price during the 2009 financial year, with the share price touching an all time low of 70.2p.
BTs TSR for the 2009 financial year was negative 60.2%, compared with the FTSE 100 TSR which was negative 28.2% and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index TSR which was negative 20.5%.
In the period between the demerger on 19 November 2001 and 31 March 2009, BTs TSR was negative 59.5%, compared with negative 26.1% for the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index.
The FTSE 100 TSR over the same period was negative 3.9%.
BTs TSR performance vs the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index BTs total shareholder return TSR performance vs the FTSE 100 since demerger over the five financial years to 31 March 2009 240 160 220 140 200 180 120 160 100 140 120 80 100 60 80 60 40 40 20 BT 20 BT FTSE 100 FTSEurorst 300 Telco 0 0 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 1 April 2004 100 31 March 2002 100 Source: Datastream Source: Datastream The graph shows the relative TSR performance of BT and the FTSE 100 over the last five years.
The graph shows the relative TSR performance of BT and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index since demerger.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 151 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Results announcements Expected announcements of results: a Results for the 2010 financial year Date 1st quarter 30 July 2009 2nd quarter and half year 12 November 2009 3rd quarter and nine months February 2010 4th quarter and full year May 2010 2010 Annual reports published May 2010 a Date may be subject to change.
Individual savings accounts ISAs Information about investing in BT shares through an ISA may be obtained from Halifax Share Dealing Limited, 1 Lovell Park Road, W. Yorkshire, Leeds LS1 1NS telephone 0870 242 5588.
ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available from ShareGift at www.
org or telephone 020 7930 3737, or can be obtained from the Shareholder Helpline see page 159.
Unclaimed Assets Register BT, along with many other leading UK companies, subscribes to Experians Unclaimed Assets Register UAR, a register of individuals owed unclaimed financial assets such as shareholdings and dividends.
UAR provides members of the public with a search device to trace lost assets.
For further information visit www.
Exchange rates BT publishes its consolidated financial statements expressed in pounds Sterling.
The following tables detail certain information concerning the exchange rates between pounds Sterling and US dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in pounds Sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
152 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Share buy back The following table gives details of the purchase by BT of its own shares during 2009.
The share buy back programme was suspended with effect from 31 July 2008.
Total number of Maximum number of shares purchased as shares that may yet Average price paid part of publicly be purchased under Total number of per share pence net announced plans or the plan or a b Calendar month shares purchased of dealing costs programmes programmes April 2008 39,630,000 2.20 39,630,000 380,062,309 May 2008 24,200,000 2.26 24,200,000 355,862,309 June 2008 48,188,225 2.14 48,188,255 307,674,084 July 2008 30,590,000 2.02 30,590,000 277,084,084 142,608,225 2.15 142,608,225 277,084,084 a Purchases made from April 2008 to 16 July 2008 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM held on 19 July 2007. b Purchases from 17 July 2008 to 25 July 2008 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM on 16 July 2008.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs memorandum and articles of association Memorandum and Articles, a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
Memorandum The Memorandum provides that the companys principal objects are, among other things, to carry on any business of running, operating, managing and supplying telecommunication systems and systems of any kind for conveying, receiving, storing, processing or transmitting sounds, visual images, signals, messages and communications of any kind.
Articles In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to be evidenced by share certicates ie in certicated form or held in electronic ie uncerticated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
a Voting rights Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right to vote at the meeting.
No person is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person has failed to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of the shares.
b Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes can be varied or withdrawn either: i with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his proxy is a quorum.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 153 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS c Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount: ii divide all or part of its share capital into shares of a smaller amount: iii cancel any shares which have not, at the date of the ordinary resolution, been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and reduce the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares cancelled: and iv increase its share capital.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution authorising the directors to make this offer.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong to the company unless the directors decide otherwise.
e Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
f Transfer of shares Certicated shares of the company may be transferred in writing either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the register of members of the company.
The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in certicated form: i which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered ofce or any other place the Board decide.
The transfer must have with it the share certicate for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is executed by another person on behalf of the person making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using a relevant system as dened in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerticated share in the circumstances stated in the Regulations.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
The Board can decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The register must not be closed without the consent of the operator of a relevant system as dened in the Regulations in the case of uncerticated shares.
g Untraced shareholders BT may sell any shares after advertising its intention and waiting for three months if the shares have been in issue for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends have become payable on them and have not been claimed and BT has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the dividends by transmission.
The net sale proceeds belong to BT, but it must pay those proceeds to the former shareholder or the person entitled to them by transmission if that shareholder, or that other person, asks for them.
h General meetings of shareholders Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under general law, must call one on a shareholders requisition.
154 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
j Directors Directors remuneration Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding 50,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of the retail prices index as dened by Section 989 Income Tax Act 2007 for any 12 month period beginning 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The Board can award extra fees to a director who holds an executive position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties of a director.
The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, any director or former director or persons connected with them.
However, BT can only provide these benets to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other ofce or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
Directors votes A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has a material interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
The director can vote if the interest is only an interest in BT shares, debentures or other securities.
A director can, however, vote and be counted in a quorum in respect of certain matters in which he or she is interested as set out in the Articles.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution suspend or relax, among other things, the provisions relating to the interest of a director in any contract or arrangement or relating to a directors right to vote and be counted in a quorum on resolutions in which he or she is interested to any extent or ratify any particular contract carried out in breach of those provisions.
Directors interests If the legislation allows and the director has disclosed the nature and extent of the interest to the Board, the director can: i have any kind of interest in a contract with or involving BT or in which BT has an interest or with or involving another company in which BT has an interest : ii have any kind of interest in a company in which BT has an interest including holding a position in that company or being a shareholder of that company : iii hold a position other than auditor in BT or another company in which BT has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board: and iv alone or through some rm with which the director is associated do paid professional work other than as auditor for BT or another company in which BT has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board.
A director does not have to hand over to BT any benefit received or profit made as a result of anything permitted to be done under the Articles.
When a director knows that they are interested in a contract with BT they must tell the other directors.
Retirement of directors No one is prevented from being or becoming a director because they have reached the age of 70.
At every annual general meeting, any director who was elected or last re-elected a director at or before the annual general meeting held in the third year before the current year, must retire by rotation.
Any director appointed by the directors automatically retires at the next following annual general meeting.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intra-group among other things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of the group which are, or may be, material to the group or contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other member of the group.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 155 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Taxation US Holders This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by US Holders as dened below who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions of US federal income tax law, including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, banks, regulated investment companies, financial institutions, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities who elect a mark-to-market method of accounting, persons subject to alternative minimum tax, investors that directly, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or more of the outstanding share capital or voting power of BT, persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or conversion transaction, persons who acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise as compensation, or persons whose functional currency is not the US dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes created or organised in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof, an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax advisor regarding the specic tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury regulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all as currently in effect and available, ii the United KingdomUnited States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the United KingdomUnited States Tax Convention that entered into force on 31 March 2003 and the protocol thereto the Convention, all as in effect on the date of this annual report, all of which are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax at source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for United Kingdom tax purposes in the United Kingdom or unless a US holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency, or, in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, the holder should not be liable for UK tax on dividends received in respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible in gross income of a US Holder will be the US dollar value of the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
A US Holder who converts the British pounds into US dollars on the date of receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A US Holder who does not convert the British pounds into US dollars on the date of receipt generally will have a tax basis in the British pounds equal to their US dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or other disposition of the British pounds generally will be US source ordinary income or loss.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income from sources outside the United States and generally will constitute passive income.
The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are very complex.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal income tax on a dollar for dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations applicable to foreign credits.
There will be no right to any UK tax credit or to any payment from HMRC in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of qualied dividend income received in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011.
For this purpose, qualied dividend income generally includes dividends paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the US Holders meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US corporation satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the shares or ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are readily tradeable on an established securities market in the United States, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible for the benets of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for the exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends paid with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute qualied dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each individual US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax advisor regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualied dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
156 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Taxation of capital gains Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for United Kingdom tax purposes in the United Kingdom or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch, agency, or in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation the holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom on or after 17 March 1998 or who falls to be regarded as resident outside the United Kingdom for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 and continues to not be resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or continues to be Treaty non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may also be liable on his return to the United Kingdom to United Kingdom tax on capital gains, subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or is Treaty non-resident at the time of disposal.
For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in US dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital gains recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share will generally be its US dollar cost.
The US dollar cost of an ordinary share purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US dollar value of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market, as dened in the applicable Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
Such an election by an accrual basis US Holder must be applied consistently from year to year and cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS.
The amount realised on a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares for an amount in foreign currency will be the US dollar value of this amount on the date of sale or disposition.
On the settlement date, the US Holder will recognise US source foreign currency gain or loss taxable as ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if any between the US dollar value of the amount received based on the exchange rates in effect on the date of sale or other disposition and the settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market that are sold by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects, the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on the settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
Passive foreign investment company status A non-US corporation will be classied as a Passive Foreign Investment Company for US federal income tax purposes a PFIC for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for the tax year ending 31 March 2009.
If BT were to become a PFIC for any tax year, US Holders would suffer adverse tax consequences.
These consequences may include having gains realised on the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, dividends paid by BT would not be qualied dividend income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to BT.
US information reporting and backup withholding Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these information reporting requirements.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder who provides a correct taxpayer identication number or certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication or who is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are United States persons for US federal income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identication Number and Certication.
Holders that are not United States persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such holders may be required to provide certication of non-US status in connection with payments received in the United States or through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely ling the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
UK stamp duty A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary share to, or to a nominee for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of either the amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 157 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be taken without advice specic to the individuals circumstances.
A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national as dened in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid.
Limitations affecting security holders There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, USA.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov Publications BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, compliance, social and environmental performance.
Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance with the Undertakings, are available to shareholders on request and can be accessed at www.
com aboutbt More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online through our independently veried sustainability report at www.
com betterworld Document Publication date Summary financial statement & Notice of Meeting May Annual Report & Form 20-F May Changing World: Sustained Values May EAB Annual Report May Quarterly results releases July, November, February and May Current Cost Financial Statements September Statement of Business Practice The Way We Work January 2009 For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or, alternatively, contact our Registrars in the UK, at the address below.
Electronic communication Shareholders can now choose to receive their shareholder documents electronically rather than by post.
Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or by calling the Shareholder Helpline see page 159.
158 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Shareholder communication BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their requirements.
All investors can visit our website at www.
com investorcentre for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, institutional investors and analysts, industry analysts and journalists.
An online version of this document is available at www.
com annualreport Private shareholders If private shareholders have any enquiries about their shareholding, they should contact our Registrars, Equiniti, at the address below.
Equiniti maintain BT Groups share register and the separate BT Group EasyShare register.
They also provide a Shareholder Helpline service on Freefone 0808 100 4141.
co. uk The Registrar ADR Depositary Equiniti JPMorgan Service Center Aspect House PO Box 358409 Spencer Road Pittsburg, PA Lancing 15252-8409 USA West Sussex Tel: 1 800 634 8366 toll free in the USA and Canada BN99 6DA or 1 201 680 6630 from outside the USA and Canada Website: www.
com General enquiries BT Group plc BT Centre 81 Newgate Street London EC1A 7AJ United Kingdom Tel: 020 7356 5000 Fax: 020 7356 5520 From outside the UK: Tel: 44 20 7356 5000 Fax: 44 20 7356 5520 Institutional investors and analysts Institutional investors and equity research analysts may contact Investor Relations on: Tel: 020 7356 4909 Fax: 01908 860 884 e-mail: investorrelations@bt.
com Industry analysts may contact: Tel: 020 7356 5631 Fax: 020 7356 6546 e-mail: industryenquiry@bt.
com A full list of BT contacts and an electronic feedback facility is available at www.
com talk BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 159 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F The information in this document that is referred to in the following table shall be deemed to be led with the Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes: Required Item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisors Not applicable 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable 3 Key information 3A Selected financial data Selected financial data 143 Information for shareholders Exchange rates 152 3B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable 3C Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds Not applicable 3D Risk factors Other matters Principal risks and uncertainties 29 4 Information on the company 4A History and development of the company Business review Introduction 8 How we are structured 10 Other matters Acquisitions and disposals 28 Financial review Balance sheet Capital expenditure 42 Acquisitions 42 4B Business overview Business review 8 Financial review Introduction to the financial review Line of business results 33 Operational statistics 146 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 148 4C Organisational structure Business review Introduction 8 Subsidiary undertakings and associate 141 4D Property, plants and equipment Other matters Our property portfolio 29 Financial statistics 145 5 Operating and financial review and prospects 5A Operating results Financial review 32 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 79 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 148 5B Liquidity and capital resources Financial review 32 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 148 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Loans and other borrowings 110 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 117 Financial instruments and risk management 130 5C Research and development, patents and licences Business review Our resources Our global research and development capability 22 Financial statistics 145 5D Trend information Financial review 32 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 148 160 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F Required Item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 5E Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review Balance sheet Off-balance sheet arrangements 44 5F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial review Balance sheet Capital resources 43 6 Directors, senior management and employees 6A Directors and senior management Board of Directors and Operating Committee 50 6B Compensation Report on directors remuneration 57 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Retirement benefit plans 121 Share based payments 126 6C Board practices Board of Directors and Operating Committee 50 The Board 52 Report on directors remuneration 57 6D Employees Financial review Group results 33 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Employees 126 Operational statistics 146 6E Share ownership Report on directors remuneration 57 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Share based payments 126 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions 7A Major shareholders Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Substantial shareholdings 74 Information for shareholders Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2009 150 7B Related party transactions Directors information Interest of management in certain transactions 70 Report on directors remuneration 57 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Related party transactions 116 7C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable 8 Financial information 8A Consolidated statements and other financial information See Item 18 below Other matters Legal proceedings 28 Financial review Other group items Dividends 39 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 117 Information for shareholders Dividends 150 Memorandum and Articles of Association Articles Dividends 154 8B significant changes Financial review Balance sheet Capital resources 43 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 161 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F Required Item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 9 The offer and listing 9A Offer and listing details Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings Share and ADS prices 149 9B Plan of distribution Not applicable 9C Markets Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings 149 9D Selling shareholders Not applicable 9E Dilution Not applicable 9F Expenses of the issue Not applicable 10 Additional information 10A Share capital Not applicable 10B Memorandum and articles of association Information for shareholders Memorandum and Articles of Association 153 10C Material contracts Information for shareholders Material contracts 155 10D Exchange controls Information for shareholders Limitations affecting security holders 158 10E Taxation Information for shareholders Taxation US Holders 156 10F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable 10G Statement by experts Not applicable 10H Documents on display Information for shareholders Documents on display 158 10I Subsidiary information Not applicable 11 Quantitative and qualitative Financial review disclosures about market risk Financial risk management 45 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Financial instruments 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial instruments and risk management 130 12 Description of securities other than equity securities Not applicable 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies Not applicable 14 Material modications to the rights of security holders and use of proceeds Not applicable 15 Controls and procedures Business policies US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 73 16A Audit committee financial expert Business policies US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 73 16B Code of ethics Business policies US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 73 16C Principal accountants fees and services Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Audit and non-audit services 129 Report of the Audit Committee 54 16E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and Information for shareholders afliated purchasers Share buy back 153 16F Change in registrants reporting accountant Not applicable 16G Corporate Governance The Board New York Stock Exchange 53 17 Financial statements Not applicable 18 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements 77 United States opinion 78 Consolidated financial statements 79 Quarterly analysis of revenue and loss profit 142 162 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS BT Payphones: a business within BT Enterprises providing street, 1,2, 3 managed and private payphones and card services BT Pension Scheme BTPS : The BTPS a dened benefit scheme 21CN: an end-to-end, next generation IP network, designed to was closed to new members on 31 March 2001 transform the customer experience by delivering new, converged BT Redcare: a business within BT Enterprises offering secure services rapidly and cost effectively.
It is one of the largest intelligent monitoring and tracking services, including alarm investments in the UKs communications infrastructure by a private monitoring, CCTV, machine monitoring, secure mobile data sector company solutions and vehicle tracking 21CN Ethernet: a next generation wholesale Ethernet service and BT Retail: a BT line of business offering a wide range of retail the first to be built on the 21CN platform.
At 31 March 2009, 21CN products and services to the consumer and small to medium-sized Ethernet was available from more than 600 nodes throughout the business markets UK BT Retirement Plan BTRP : a dened contribution pension arrangement that was introduced for new BT employees from A 1 April 2001 and was closed to new members on 31 March 2009 BT Retirement Saving Scheme: set up on 1 April 2009 as a ADS: American Depositary Share successor to the BT Retirement Plan and the Syntegra Ltd Flexible ARPU: average annual revenue per user Pensions Plan.
It is a contract based, dened contribution arrangement BT Tradespace: an online trading community that brings businesses B and individual sellers together with potential customers and partners backhaul network: the network linking a communications BT Total Broadband: a comprehensive range of broadband providers network with the BT exchange packages.
Powered by download speeds of up to 8Mb, it offers free broadband: comes from broad bandwidth and is used to describe internet voice calls, free video calls, and a suite of security software a high-capacity, two-way link between an end user and an access BT Vision: next generation TV service combining the appeal of TV network supplier capable of carrying a wide range of applications with the interactivity of broadband BT Basic: offers low line rental to vulnerable customers on low BT Wholesale: a BT line of business providing network services and income benets solutions within the UK.
It services more than 700 communications BT Business One Plan: a combined landline, mobile and broadband providers, including other BT businesses calling package designed for businesses Business in the Community: an organisation of more than 700 of BT Conferencing: a business within BT Enterprises offering global the UKs top companies committed to improving their positive audio, video and web collaboration services impact on society BT Design: a BT internal functional unit responsible for the design and deployment of the platforms, systems and processes which support BTs products and services C BT Digital Vault: a service for safeguarding les stored on customers PCs and laptops including photos, emails, and other Childline: the UKs free, 24-hour helpline for children in distress or important personal information danger BT Directories: a business within BT Enterprises offering directory cloud computing: a type of computing that relies on sharing enquiries, operator services and the phone book, as well as online computer resources rather than having local servers or personal and CD-ROM services devices to handle applications BT Engage IT: incorporates Basilica and Lynx acquired in 2007, CP: communications provider and offers customers a wide range of IT services, including data CPS: carrier pre-selection enables customers to choose to have centre virtualisation and unied communications certain call types carried by another network operator BT Enterprises: a business unit within BT Retail encompassing CRM: customer relationship management BT Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Expedite, BT Payphones, CR: corporate responsibility BT Redcare and BT Shop and dabs.
com BT Expedite: a business within BT Enterprises offering specialist D store integration solutions and services BT FON: global wireless broadband access for BT Total Broadband dabs.
com: one of the UKs leading internet retailers of IT and customers using BT Openzone Wi-Fi hotspots and the connection technology products of other BT FON members DBP: BT Group Deferred Bonus Plan a plan where share awards BT Global Services: BTs line of business providing networked IT are granted to selected employees of the group products, services and solutions in the UK and globally Dow Jones Sustainability Index: assesses 2,500 companies BT Home Hub 2.0: the latest release of the BT Home Hub wireless worldwide on their performance in areas such as corporate router governance and ethical practices, investor relations, environmental BT Ireland: a division of BT Retail.
It operates in the consumer, management, community investment, human rights, health and business, major business and wholesale markets throughout the safety, diversity, supply chain and risk management island of Ireland DSL: digital subscriber line a broadband service where existing BT Openzone: a broadband internet access service using wireless wires between the local telephone exchange and a customers technology Wi-Fi.
Users can access email or surf the internet from telephone sockets are transformed into a high-speed digital line around 200,000 hot spots throughout the UK and via roaming partners around the world BT Operate: a BT internal functional unit responsible for the operation of the platforms, systems and processes which support BTs products and services BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 163 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS E M EBITDA: earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and MNS managed network solutions: BT Wholesales broad portfolio amortisation of long-term managed network outsourcing and white label Ethernet: a popular standard or protocol for linking computers into platform offerings designed to reduce cost and increase efficiency a local area network.
Our Ethernet portfolio gives our CP customers for our CP customers a wide choice of high-bandwidth circuits MPLS: multi-protocol label switching supports the rapid EMP: Equivalence Management Platform Openreachs transmission of data across network routers, enabling modern transactional platform that underpins all its interactions with networks to achieve high quality of service communications providers.
It can process up to 100,000 orders a day N EPS: earnings per share ESIP: Employee Share Investment Plan a plan under which BT can N3: the national broadband network that BT is building for the NHS provide free shares to employees, and employees can buy shares in narrowband: non-broadband, xed access network or line BT from pre-tax salaries NCC: network charge control ESPP: BT Group Employee Stock Purchase Plan a plan for NGA: Next Generation Access a bre based, super-fast broadband employees in the US which enables them to purchase American platform, which we plan to roll out to around ten million UK homes Depositary Shares ADSs and businesses by 2012.
It will run on the 21CN core infrastructure F O Friends & Family Mobile: a calling plan that offers discounts of up Ofcom: the independent regulator and competition authority for to 40% on calls to mobiles the UK communications industries, with responsibilities across FTTC: bre to the cabinet television, radio, telecommunications and wireless communications FTTP: bre to the premises services Openreach: Openreach looks after the first mile of network, from G the exchange through to homes and businesses.
Its role is to provide services to all communications providers including other Gb: gigabits per second BT lines of business on a fair, equal and open basis GLOP: BT Group Legacy Option Plan a legacy share option plan which is no longer operated by the group P GSOP: BT Group Global Share Option Plan a legacy share option plan which is no longer operated by the group PPC: partial private circuit PSTN: public switched telephone network I Q IASB: International Accounting Standards Board the board which sets International Financial Reporting Standards Queens Award for Enterprise: the UKs most prestigious award for ICT: information and communication technology business performance IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards IP: internet protocol a packet-based protocol for delivering data including voice and video across networks R I-Plate: a self-installable device that can be tted to a master telephone socket to improve broadband speeds by eliminating right first time: the most important measure of whether we are electrical interference keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or exceeding ISDN: integrated services digital network an all digital network their expectations that enables a host of services to be carried together on the same Route2Learn R2L : our internal learning management system circuits.
It makes it possible for any two compatible pieces of RSP: BT Group Retention Share Plan a plan where share awards connected equipment to talk to each other are granted to selected employees of the group ISO 14001: the environmental management standard ISP: internet service provider S ISP: BT Group Incentive Share Plan SME: small or medium-sized enterprise L SMP: significant market power Super-fast broadband: see next generation access LAN: local area network a network that operates within a limited geographical area, such as in a building.
It connects a variety of data T devices, such as PCs, servers and printers at a very high data rate LLU: local loop unbundling the process whereby BTs exchange TSR: Total shareholder return a corporate performance measure lines are physically disconnected from BTs network and connected used to measure BT against a comparator group of companies from to other communications providers networks.
This enables the European telecom sector at the beginning of the relevant operators, other than BT, to use the companys local loop to provide performance period services to customers 164 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS U Undertakings: a series of legally-binding commitments BT made to Ofcom, designed to bring greater transparency and certainty to the regulation of the telecommunications industry in the UK.
They led to the formation of Openreach UK GAAP: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP: United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles USO: universal service obligation US SEC: US Securities and Exchange Commission V VoIP: voice over internet protocol a method of transporting speech over the internet W WAN: wide area network a network spread over a large geographical area Wholesale Broadband Connect: a next generation 21CN broadband service offering a range of benets including speeds up to 24Mb, guaranteed service level agreements, the ability to trade speed for stability and enhanced line diagnostics Wi-Fi: wireless networking the ability to connect to a network or a PC using radio as opposed to a physical cabling connection WLR: wholesale line rental enables communications providers to offer their own-branded telephony services over the Openreach network BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 165 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INDEX A E Accounting policies 79-87 Earnings per share 9, 39, 100-101 Accounting standards, interpretations and Electronic communication 158 amendments to published standards 85-87 Employee plans 126-129 Acquisitions 42, 118-121 Environment, protecting the 23 Acquisitions and disposals 28-29 Exchange rates 152 Additional information 148-167 Alternative performance measures 47-48 F Articles of Association 153-155 Associates and joint ventures 39, 108 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 117 Audit Committee, Report of the 54-55 Financial data, selected 143-144 Audit and non-audit services 129 Financial instruments and risk management 130-135 Audit opinions 77, 78, 137 Financial review 32-48 Financial risk management 45-47 B Financial statements of BT Group plc 138-140 Financial statistics 145 Balance sheet 41-44, 91, 139-140, 144 Financial summary 2 Board, the 52-53 Financing 39-42 Board of Directors and Operating Committee 50-51 Focus, Our 8-9 Branches outside the UK 28 Foreign currencies 80 BT Design 19 Free cash ow 9, 41, 48 BT Global Services 10-13 BT Operate 20 G BT Retail 13-16 BT Wholesale 16-17 Geographical information 35, 95 Business policies 71-73 Global Invest Direct 151 Business review 8-25 Glossary of terms 163-165 Glossary of terms and US equivalents 136 C Group results 33-36 Capital expenditure 42, 94, 95, 117 H Capital gains tax 149 Capital resources 43-44 How we are structured 6, 10 Cash and cash equivalents 83, 90, 102 Cash ow statement, group 90, 144 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 148 I Chairmans message 3 Chief Executives statement 4 IFRS 143-145 Competition 27-28 Income statement, group 89-90 Consolidated financial statements 79-135 Income statement, group summarised 32 Corporate responsibility 23-25 Independent auditors, Report of the 77, 78, 137 Critical accounting policies 47 Individual savings accounts ISAs 152 Cross reference to Form 20-F 160-162 Information for shareholders 148-159 Customer service 9 Intangible assets 81, 104-105 Investments 107 D L Deferred taxation 113-114 Legal proceedings 28 Derivative financial instruments 84, 111-112, 131-135 Limitations affecting security holdings 158 Directors information 70 Line of business results 33 Directors remuneration, report on 57-69 Loans and other borrowings 110-111 Directors responsibility, statement of 76 Directors, Report of the 50-74 Dividend investment plan 151 M Dividend mandate 150 Dividends 39, 82, 98, 138, 150-151, 154 Maintaining a sustainable business 9 Documents on display 158 Material contracts 155 Measuring our performance 9 Memorandum and Articles of Association 153-155 Minority interests 114 166 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INDEX N S Net debt 48, 103 Segmental analysis 92-95 Nominating Committee, Report of the 56 Selected financial data 143-144 Non-financial corporate responsibility KPIs 24-25 Share and ADS prices 149 Notes to the consolidated accounts 92-135 Share buy back 153 Share capital 84, 115, 138 Share based payments 82, 126-129, 138 O ShareGift 152 Shareholder communication 159 Off-balance sheet arrangements 44 Shareholders and annual general meeting 74 Openreach 17-19 Shareholdings, analysis of 150 Operating Committee 51 Specic items 36-38, 97 Operating costs 35-36, 96 Statement of recognised income and expense, group 89 Operational statistics 146 Stock exchange listings 149 Other matters 26-31 Subsidiary undertakings and associate 141 Other group items 36-39 Other operating income 35, 80, 95 Other reserves 115 T Our relationship with HM Government 28 Outlook 9 Taxation 39, 44-45, 82, 99-100, 138 Overview 2-6 Taxation US Holders 156-158 This is BT 5 Total shareholder return 151 P Trade and other payables 83, 112 Trade and other receivables 83, 108-109 Pensions 21, 42-43, 60-61, 65 Performance, Our 2009 8 Principal risks and uncertainties 29-31 U profit before taxation 39 Property, plant and equipment 81, 106-107 Unclaimed Assets Register 152 Property portfolio, Our 29 Provisions 83, 113 Publications 158 Q Quarterly analysis of revenue and loss profit 142 R Reconciliation of movements in equity 114 Regulation 26-27 Related party transactions 116 Resources, Our 20-22 Results announcements 152 Retained loss earnings 116 Retirement benefit plans 121-125 Return on capital employed 42 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 167 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION pp p BT Group plc Registered ofce: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
4190816 Produced by BT Group Printed in England by Pindar Graphics Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk, which is produced using 50% recovered waste bre and 50% virgin wood bre.
All pulps used are elemental chlorine free ECF.
