FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Acquisitions continued BT Retail During 2008, the group acquired a number of smaller subsidiary undertakings that now form part of BT Retail.
These acquisitions include principally, Lynx Technology Holdings Limited, Basilica Group Limited and Brightview plc.
The total purchase consideration paid for these subsidiaries was 71m, including 8m deferred, contingent consideration.
The group acquired 100% of each company.
The combined net assets acquired in these transactions and the goodwill arising is as follows: Book Fair value value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 2323 Property, plant and equipment 4 4 Receivables 22 1 21 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Payables 25 2 27 Net assets acquired 42024 Goodwill 47 Total consideration 71 Intangible assets recognised in respect of these acquisitions comprise customer relationships and brand names.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions principally relates to anticipated cost and revenue synergies and the assembled workforce.
During 2009, the determination of fair value in respect of these acquisitions has been nalised.
No adjustments have been made to the balances previously reported.
Retirement benefit plans Background The group offers retirement benefit plans to its employees.
The groups main scheme, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, is a dened benefit scheme.
This scheme has been closed to new entrants since 31 March 2001 when it was replaced by a dened contribution scheme, the BT Retirement Plan BTRP.
On 1 April 2009 BT set up the BT Retirement Saving Scheme, a contract based dened contribution arrangement to which BTRP members are being invited to transfer their accumulated assets.
The total pension cost of the group for the year, included within staff costs, was 544m 2008: 626m, 2007: 643m.
The total cost associated with the groups dened benefit pension schemes was 459m 2008: 576m, 2007: 600m.
Dened contribution schemes The income statement charge in respect of dened contribution schemes represents the contribution payable by the group based upon a xed percentage of employees pay.
The total pension cost for the year in respect of the groups main dened contribution scheme was 47m 2008: 37m, 2007: 28m and 4m 2008: 3m, 2007: 3m of contributions were outstanding at 31 March 2009.
Dened benefit schemes BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited administers and manages the scheme on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed of the scheme and relevant legislation.
Under the terms of the trust deed of the BTPS, there are nine trustee directors appointed by the group, five of which appointments are made with the agreement of the relevant trade unions, including the Chairman of the Trustees.
Four trustee directors other than the Chairman are appointed by BT on the nomination of the relevant trade unions.
Two of the trustee directors will normally hold senior positions within the group, and two will normally hold or have held senior positions in commerce or industry.
Subject to there being an appropriately qualied candidate, there should be at least one current pensioner or deferred pensioner of the BTPS as one of the trustee directors.
Trustee directors are appointed for a three-year term, but are then eligible for re-appointment.
Measurement of scheme assets and liabilities IAS 19 Scheme assets are measured at the bid market value at the balance sheet date.
The liabilities of the BTPS are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash ows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method.
Estimated future cash ows are discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the year in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
