REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This measure will be calibrated at a level considered by the Other share plans Committee and confirmed by its independent adviser to be at a The executive directors and the Chairman may participate in minimum as challenging as the previous measure.
BTs all-employee share plans, the Employee Sharesave Scheme, For awards granted in 2009 10, performance will be assessed the International Employee Sharesave Scheme, Employee Share against a range of cumulative cash ow measures.
25% of the Investment Plan and Allshare International, on the same basis as relevant part of the award will vest for performance at the lower other employees.
There are further details of these plans in note 31 end of the range, increasing on a straight line basis, such that 100% to the accounts.
of the relevant part of the award will vest for performance at the upper end of the range.
Openreach A number of key investors and the main representative bodies In the Undertakings given to Ofcom on 22 September 2005, BT were consulted about these changes and were supportive.
agreed that the incentive elements of the remuneration of executives within Openreach should be linked to Openreach Incentive shares performance rather than BT targets or share price.
These incentives For the financial year 2008 09, the Committee granted incentive cannot be provided by way of BT shares.
shares to executive directors, senior executives, key managers and As a result, separate arrangements were put in place for professionals.
The annual bonus is linked solely Awards of incentive shares vest after a performance period of to Openreach targets and long-term incentives are paid in cash three years, if the participant is still employed by BT and a instead of shares.
However, payment of bonuses in Openreach is performance measure has been met.
Dividends paid on the shares subject to overall affordability within BT Group.
during the three-year period are reinvested in further shares and Openreach executives participate in the BT all-employee share added to the awards.
For awards of incentive shares granted in the plans on the same terms as other BT employees.
financial years, 2006 07, 2007 08, 2008 09 and awards to be None of the executive directors participates in the Openreach granted in 2009 10, TSR at the end of the three-year period must incentive plans.
be in the upper quartile relative to the comparator group for all of the shares to vest.
At median, 25% of the shares under the relevant Dilution part of the award will vest.
Below that point, none of the shares Treasury shares are generally used to satisfy the exercise of share under the relevant part of the award will vest.
The proportion of options, the grant of share awards and for the all-employee share shares that vests reduces on a straight-line basis between the plans.
At the end of the 2008 09 financial year, treasury shares upper quartile and median positions.
There is no re-testing, and no equivalent to 4% of the issued share capital would be required for matching shares are offered to any executive on vesting of the these purposes.
It is estimated that treasury shares equivalent to incentive shares.
approximately 1% of the issued share capital will be required for all At 31 March 2009, the TSR for the 2006 07 awards was at the employee share plans in 2009 10.
14th position against the comparator group of companies.
As a result none of the shares will vest and all of the share awards have lapsed.
iv Other matters The details of incentive share awards held by Ian Livingston, Executive share ownership Tony Chanmugam, Hanif Lalani and Gavin Patterson at the end of The Committee believes that the interests of the executive directors the financial year 2008 09 are contained in the table on page 67. should be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
The deferred and incentive shares provide considerable alignment.
The directors Share options are encouraged to build up a shareholding in the company over No share options were granted under the GSOP in 2008 09.
The time by retaining shares which they have received under an last grant of such share options was in the financial year 2004 05. executive share plan other than shares sold to meet a National The price at which shares may be acquired under the GSOP is the Insurance or income tax liability or from a purchase in the market.
market price at the date of grant.
Options are exercisable after The Chief Executive is required to build up a shareholding of three years, subject to a performance target TSR being met.
2x salary and the remaining directors 1.5x salary.
Progress towards Since June 2007, 58% of the GSOP options granted in 2004 05 meeting these targets has been made in 2008 09. have been exercisable.
Current shareholdings are set out on page 63.
The details of the options held by Ian Livingston, Tony Chanmugam, Hanif Lalani and Gavin Patterson at the end of Pensions the financial year 2008 09 are contained in the table on page 66.
Those directors and other employees who joined the company prior to 1 April 2001 are eligible for membership of the BT Pension Retention shares Scheme BTPS, which is a dened benefit scheme.
Hanif Lalani and Retention shares are granted exceptionally under the RSP to Tony Chanmugam are the only executive directors who are individuals with critical skills, as a recruitment or retention tool.
In members of the Scheme, although Hanif Lalani has opted out of some cases, they are granted to key employees who have future pensionable service accrual.
The executive directors who contributed to excellent corporate performance to assist retention.
joined the company after 31 March 2001 and executive directors As a result, shares currently under award are not generally linked to who have opted out of future pensionable service accrual following a corporate performance target.
The length of the retention period the pension simplication legislation which came into force on 6 before awards vest is exible although this would normally be three April 2006, receive as an alternative, a cash allowance annually.
The years unless the Committee agreed otherwise.
The shares are benets for executive directors who are covered by this are set out transferred at the end of the specified period if the individual is still on page 65.
This is broadly cash neutral for the company.
employed by BT and any performance conditions are met.
BT closed the BTPS to new members from 31 March 2001 and all Retention shares are used in special circumstances and, in the new employees were able to join the BT Retirement Plan BTRP.
financial year 2008 09, two awards were granted for recruitment This is a dened contribution scheme.
For executive directors the purposes.
No awards of retention shares were granted to executive company agrees to pay a xed percentage of the executives salary directors in 2008 09. each year which can be put towards the provision of retirement 60 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
