Additional information Shareholder information Financial calendar for the 2010 financial year Ordinary shareholders resident outside the UK and eurozone can have their dividends paid into their bank account directly via the Companys registrars global payments Interim management statement 24 July 2009 service.
Details and terms and conditions may be viewed at www.
com Half-year financial results announcement 10 November 2009 uk investor GPS.
Further details will be available at www.
com investor, as they become For dividend payments in euros, the sterling: euro exchange rate will be determined available.
The Company does not publish results announcements in the press: they by the Company shortly before the payment date, in accordance with the Companys are available online at www.
The Company will pay the ADS depositary, The Bank of New York, its dividend in US Dividends dollars.
The sterling: US dollar exchange rate for this purpose will be determined by Full details on the dividend amount per share can be found on page 40.
Set out below is the Company up to ten New York and London business days prior to the payment information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009. date.
Cash dividends to ADS holders will be paid by the ADS depositary in US dollars.
Ex-dividend date 3 June 2009 Record date 5 June 2009 Further information about the dividend payments can be found at www.
Dividend reinvestment plan last election date 17 July 2009 1 com dividends or, alternatively, please contact the Companys registrars for Dividend payment date 7 August 2009 further details.
Note: 1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Dividend reinvestment The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary Dividend payment methods shares, who choose to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire additional Currently holders of ordinary shares and ADSs can: shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or For ADS holders, The Bank of New York Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone shares under the for the Company, which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts, with dividend reinvestment plan see below or, in the case of ADSs, have the dividends a dividend reinvestment facility.
reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs.
Final B share redemption date In relation to holders of ordinary shares only, the Company proposes that, after In accordance with the terms of the 2006 return of capital and share consolidation, payment of the final dividend in August 2009, it will pay future dividend payments the Company redeemed and cancelled all outstanding B shares in issue on 5 August only by direct credit into a nominated bank or building society account, or 2008 at their nominal value of 15 pence per share.
alternatively, into the Companys dividend reinvestment plan.
The Company will no longer pay dividends by cheque to holders of ordinary shares with effect from Telephone share dealing February 2010.
A telephone share dealing service with the Companys registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, By withdrawing cheque payments, the Company is seeking to improve the security excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and of dividend payments to shareholders, by avoiding the risk of cheques being lost in conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
Shareholders will also benefit by receiving their dividend on the date of payment.
Shareholders will continue to receive a tax voucher in respect of dividend payments.
Registrars and transfer office If private shareholders have any enquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, they should contact the Companys registrars at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Vodafone Group Plc share register and holders of ordinary shares may view and update details of their shareholding via the registrars investor centre at www.
ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to the depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme at the address or telephone number below.
ADS holders can view their account information, make changes and conduct many other transactions at www.
The registrars Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland : Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited The Pavilions PO Box 9742 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, England Dublin 18, Ireland Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Telephone: 0818 300 999 www.
co. uk contactus ADR depositary The Bank of New York Mellon BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, USA Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the USA, 1 201 680 6837 not toll free and enter company number 2160 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 127 Shareholder information continued Internet share dealing Share price history An internet share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares who want Upon flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988, the ordinary shares were valued either to buy or sell ordinary shares.
Further information about this service can be at 170 pence each.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was finally demerged, obtained from the Companys registrars on 44 0 870 702 0198 or by logging onto for UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was apportioned www.
between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax purposes in the ratio of 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices on 16 September Online shareholder services 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 223 pence for each Racal share.
The Company provides a number of shareholder services online at www.
com shareholder, where shareholders may: On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every one then held and, on 30 September 1999, it effected a bonus issue of four new shares for register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benefits to shareholders every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger share prices, therefore, may be include faster receipt of communications, such as annual reports, with cost and time restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence, respectively.
Electronic shareholder communications are also more environmentally friendly: The share price at 31 March 2009 was 122.8 pence 31 March 2008: 150.9 pence.
view a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on 28 July 2009.
A recording will be The share price on 18 May 2009 was 127.5 pence.
available to view after that date: view and or download the 2009 annual report: The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low check the current share price: middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, and ii calculate dividend payments: and the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the NYSE.
use interactive tools to calculate the value of shareholdings, change registered address or dividend mandate instructions, look up the historic price on a particular On 31 July 2006, the Group returned approximately 9 billion to shareholders in the date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price changes against indices.
As part of this arrangement, and in order to facilitate historical share price comparisons, the Groups share capital was consolidated on the Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive company press releases, basis of seven new ordinary shares for every eight ordinary shares held at this date.
including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone Share prices in the five and two year data tables below have not been restated to news via the Companys website at www.
Registering for reflect this consolidation.
Vodafone news will enable users to: London Stock Exchange access the latest news from their mobile: and Pounds per NYSE have news automatically e-mailed to them.
ordinary share Dollars per ADS Year ended 31 March High Low High Low 2005 1.49 1.14 28.54 20.83 Annual general meeting 2006 1.55 1.09 28.04 19.32 The twenty-fifth AGM of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference 2007 1.54 1.08 29.85 20.07 Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on 28 July 2009 at 11.00 am.
2008 1.98 1.36 40.87 26.88 2009 1.70 0.96 32.87 15.30 A combined review of the year and notice of AGM, including details of the business to be conducted at the AGM, will be circulated to shareholders and can be viewed at London Stock the Companys website at www.
Exchange Pounds per NYSE ordinary share Dollars per ADS The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be viewed at the Companys Quarter High Low High Low website at www.
com agm on the day of the meeting and a recording will be 2007 2008 available to view after that date.
First quarter 1.69 1.36 33.87 26.88 Second quarter 1.79 1.47 36.52 29.13 ShareGift Third quarter 1.98 1.67 40.87 34.32 The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered Fourth quarter 1.94 1.46 38.27 29.27 charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very 2008 2009 small number of shares, which might be considered uneconomic to sell, are able to First quarter 1.70 1.40 32.87 27.72 donate them to charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the Second quarter 1.58 1.18 31.21 21.01 proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity Third quarter 1.41 0.96 23.06 15.30 gives rise neither to a gain nor a loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and UK Fourth quarter 1.48 1.13 21.88 15.46 taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief on the value of the donation.
2009 2010 1 First quarter 1.33 1.19 19.64 17.68 ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys shareholders are available from the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, and, even if London Stock the share certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The Exchange Pounds per NYSE service is generally free.
However, there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or ordinary share Dollars per ADS destroyed share certificate where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
Further Month High Low High Low details about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
December 2008 1.39 1.21 20.44 17.56 January 2009 1.48 1.29 21.88 18.15 Asset Checker Limited February 2009 1.38 1.20 20.50 17.17 The Company participates in Asset Checker, the online service which provides a March 2009 1.27 1.13 17.96 15.46 search facility for solicitors and probate professionals to quickly and easily trace UK April 2009 1.33 1.19 19.48 17.68 1 shareholdings relating to deceased estates.
For further information, visit www.
Note: 1 Covering period up to 18 May 2009.
128 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information The current authorised share capital comprises 68,250,000,000 ordinary shares of Shareholders at 31 March 2009 3 Number of % of total US$0.11 7 each and 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares 38,563,935,574 B shares of 0.15 each and 28,036,064,426 deferred shares of 0.15 1 1,000 440,296 0.21% pence each.
1,001 5,000 81,147 0.31% 5,001 50,000 25,850 0.56% Inflation and foreign currency translation 50,001 100,000 1,149 0.14% Inflation 100,001 500,000 1,123 0.46% Inflation has not had a significant effect on the Groups results of operations and More than 500,000 1,817 98.32% financial condition during the three years ended 31 March 2009.
551,382 100.00 Foreign currency translation Geographical analysis of shareholders The following table sets out the pounds sterling exchange rates of the other principal At 31 March 2009, approximately 54.3% of the Companys shares were held in the UK, currencies of the Group, being: euros, or eurocents, the currency of the 30.3% in North America, 11.9% in Europe excluding the UK and 3.5% in the rest of European Union EU Member states which have adopted the euro as their currency, the world.
and US dollars, US$, cents or, the currency of the United States.
Major shareholders 31 March Change Currency 1 2009 2008 % The Bank of New York Mellon, as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held 3 Average: approximately 11.7% of the Companys ordinary shares of US$0.11 7 each at 18 May Euro 1.20 1.42 15.5 2009 as nominee.
At this date, 1,258 holders of record of ordinary shares had registered At 31 March: addresses in the United States and in total held approximately 0.008% of the ordinary Euro 1.08 1.26 14.3 shares of the Company.
At 18 May 2009, the following percentage interests in the US dollar 1.43 1.99 28.1 ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to the directors: The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, Shareholder Shareholding average, high and low exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars AXA S. A.
Legal & General Group Plc 4.43% Year ended 31 March 31 March Average High Low 2005 1.89 1.85 1.96 1.75 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these 2006 1.74 1.79 1.92 1.71 shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary 2007 1.97 1.89 1.98 1.74 shares of the Company.
The directors are not aware, at 18 May 2009, of any other 2008 1.99 2.01 2.11 1.94 interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is 2009 1.43 1.72 2.00 1.37 not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result in Month High Low a change of control of the Company.
November 2008 1.60 1.47 December 2008 1.55 1.44 Memorandum and articles of association and applicable January 2009 1.52 1.37 English law February 2009 1.49 1.42 The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys March 2009 1.47 1.38 memorandum and articles of association and applicable English law.
This summary April 2009 1.50 1.44 is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of England and Wales, as amended and the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales as in force, Markets and the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
Information on where Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock Exchange shareholders can obtain copies of the memorandum and articles of association is and, in the form of ADSs, on the NYSE.
The Company had a total market capitalisation provided under Documents on display on page 131. of approximately 66.9 billion at 18 May 2009, making it the third largest listing in The st Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index and the 31 largest company in the world All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further based on market capitalisation at that date.
contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on the NYSE under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by The Bank of New York English law specifies that any alteration to the articles of association must be Mellon, as depositary, under a deposit agreement, dated as of 12 October 1988, as approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
amended and restated as of 26 December 1989, as further amended and restated as of 16 September 1991, as further amended and restated as of 30 June 1999, and as The Companys objects further amended and restated as of 31 July 2006 between the Company, the The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England and Wales.
The depositary and the holders from time to time of ADRs issued thereunder.
Company is registered in England and Wales under the name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company, with the registration number 1833679.
The Companys objects are ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New set out in the fourth clause of its memorandum of association and cover a wide range York Mellon on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares of activities, including to carry on the business of a holding company, to carry on represented by their ADSs.
See Memorandum and articles of association and business as dealers in, operators, manufacturers, repairers, designers, developers, applicable English law Rights attaching to the Companys shares Voting rights importers and exporters of electronic, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical on page 130. equipment of all types as well as to carry on all other businesses necessary to attain the Companys objectives.
The memorandum of association grants the Company a broad range of powers to effect its objects.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 129 Shareholder information continued Directors Dividend rights The Companys articles of association provide for a Board of directors, consisting Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid in respect of each of not fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of financial year, or other accounting period of the Company, a fixed cumulative the Company.
preferential dividend of 7% per annum on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable profits which The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the directors have resolved should be distributed.
The fixed rate shares do not have any restrictions in the articles of association.
any other right to share in the Companys profits.
Under the Companys articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a material dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by interest other than by virtue of the directors interest in the Companys shares or other the directors.
The Board of directors may also pay interim dividends.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a giving be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary the director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of shares will be announced in pounds sterling.
Holders of ordinary shares with a obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company, b registered address in a eurozone country defined, for this purpose, as a country that giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or a third party in respect of has adopted the euro as its national currency will receive their dividends in euros, obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an exchanged from pounds sterling at a rate fixed by the Board of directors in accordance indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which with the articles of association.
Dividends for ADS holders represented by ordinary the director participates as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting shares held by the depositary will be paid to the depositary in US dollars, exchanged of such shares or securities, d concerning any other company in which the director from pounds sterling at a rate fixed by the directors in accordance with the articles of together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise association, and the depositary will distribute them to the ADS holders.
interested, provided that the director together with any connected person is not interested in 1% or more of any class of the companys equity share capital or the voting If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the resolution passed rights available to its shareholders, e relating to the arrangement of any employee at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the resolution of the directors benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees and f relating to providing for payment of that dividend, the directors may invest the dividend or use any insurance that the Company purchases or renews for its directors or any group of it in some other way for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, it will be forfeited The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow and belong to the Company.
money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal Voting rights to 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the The Companys articles of association provide that voting on substantive resolutions manner prescribed in the articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution at a general meeting shall be resolution of the Companys shareholders.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held.
Procedural resolutions such The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree to do so in the as a resolution to adjourn a General Meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman future, provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and subject of a general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder to and in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985. who is present at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
In addition, the articles of association allow persons In accordance with the Companys articles of association, directors retiring at each appointed as proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on AGM are those last elected or re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third a show of hands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
calendar year before the current year.
In 2005, the Company reviewed its policy Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
regarding the retirement and re-election of directors and, although it is not intended to amend the Companys articles of association in this regard, the Board has decided, Under English law, two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for in the interests of good corporate governance, that all of the directors should offer purposes of a general meeting, unless a companys articles of association specify themselves for re-election annually.
The Companys articles of association do not specify otherwise, except that the shareholders do not need to be present in person, and may instead be No person is disqualified from being a director or is required to vacate that office by present by proxy, to constitute a quorum.
Under English law, shareholders of a public company such as the Company are not Directors are not required, under the Companys articles of association, to hold any shares permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
of the Company as a qualification to act as a director, although executive directors participating in long term incentive plans must comply with the Companys share Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on a ownership guidelines.
In accordance with best practice in the UK for corporate poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys shareholders by the governance, compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a remuneration depositarys appointment of them as corporate representatives with respect to the committee consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary or its In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the nominee, who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with Board has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors their instructions.
remuneration which complies with the regulations see pages 57 to 67.
The report is also subject to a shareholder vote.
Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group Share Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested share account through the respective Rights attaching to the Companys shares plans trustees.
At 31 March 2009, the issued share capital of the Company was comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and 52,483,872,615 ordinary shares Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to vote on 3 excluding treasury shares of US$0.11 7 each.
any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% cumulative fixed rate share.
130 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Liquidation rights Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companies In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and Acts allow an electronic address or fax number in the United Kingdom in order to be deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the Companys 7% entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings and other notices and cumulative fixed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up documents.
In certain circumstances, the Company may give notices to shareholders on such shares, together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the by advertisement in newspapers in the United Kingdom.
Holders of the Companys Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not have any other ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the Deposit Agreement right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares Under Section 336 of the Companies Act 2006, the annual general meeting of Under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, directors are, with certain exceptions, shareholders must be held each calendar year and within six months of the unable to allot relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in a Companys year end.
Relevant securities as defined in the Companies Act 1985 include the Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary Electronic communications shares.
In addition, Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 imposes further restrictions The Company may, subject to and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, on the issue of equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 1985, which include communicate all shareholder information by electronic means, including by making the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible into ordinary shares which such information available on a website, with notification that such information shall are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing shareholders.
be available on the website.
The Companys articles of association allow shareholders to authorise directors for a period up to five years to allot a relevant securities generally up to an amount fixed Variation of rights by the shareholders and b equity securities for cash other than in connection with If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the a rights issue up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the restriction rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies in Section 89.
In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the amount of Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three fourths in nominal value of relevant securities to be fixed by shareholders is normally restricted to one third of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a the existing issued ordinary share capital, and the amount of equity securities to be separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
issued for cash other than in connection with a rights issue is restricted to 5% of the existing issued ordinary share capital.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to make such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares disclosure of their ownership percentage, although such requirements exist under rules of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in derived by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are The basic disclosure requirement upon a person acquiring or disposing of shares deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking carrying voting rights is an obligation to provide written notification to the Company, equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits or assets of the including certain details as set out in DTR 5, where the percentage of the persons Company or by a redemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
voting rights which he holds as shareholder or through his direct or indirect holding of financial instruments falling within DTR 5.3.
1R reaches or exceeds 3% and Limitations on voting and shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls below each 1% threshold thereafter.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no limitations imposed on the transfer, holding or voting of the Companys shares other than those limitations that would Under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by notice in generally apply to all of the shareholders.
No shareholder has any securities carrying writing, require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe special rights with regard to control of the Company.
is, or was during the preceding three years, interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest Documents on display in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the Companies The Company is subject to the information requirements of the US Securities and Act 2006.
DTR 3 deals with the disclosure by persons discharging managerial Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with these responsibility and their connected persons of the occurrence of all transactions requirements, the Company files its annual report on Form 20-F and other related conducted on their account in the shares in the Company.
Part 28 of The Companies documents with the SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the SECs public Act 2006 sets out the statutory functions of the Panel on Takeovers & Mergers the reference rooms located at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
The Panel is responsible for issuing and administering the Code on Takeovers operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the US by calling the SEC on & Mergers and governs disclosure requirements on all parties to a takeover with 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including all those regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company and also on their filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available on the SECs website at www.
respective associates during the course of an offer period.
Shareholders can also obtain copies of the Companys memorandum and articles of association from the Vodafone website at www.
com governance or from General meetings and notices the Companys registered office.
Annual general meetings are held at such times and place as determined by the directors of the Company.
The directors may also, when they think fit, convene other Debt securities general meetings of the Company.
General meetings may also be convened on Pursuant to an Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of requisition as provided by the Companies Act 2006.
24 July 2007, by and among the Company, The Bank of New York Mellon and Citibank N. A, The Bank of New York Mellon has become the successor trustee to Citibank N. A.
An annual general meeting and any other general meeting called for the passing of under the Companys Indenture dated as of 10 February 2000. a special resolution needs to be called by not less than twenty-one days notice in writing and all other general meetings by not less than fourteen days notice in writing.
The directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices of Material contracts meetings are those persons entered on the register at the close of business on a day At the date of this annual report, the Group is not party to any contracts that are determined by the directors but not later than twenty-one days before the date the considered material to the Groups results or operations, except for its US$9.1 billion relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also specify the record date, which shall not credit facilities which are discussed under Financial position and resources on be more than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 131 Shareholder information continued Exchange controls A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect the United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK income tax, to a tax export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on credit on cash dividends paid on shares in the Company or ADSs, and the tax credit is remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
operations, except as otherwise set out under Taxation below.
US federal income taxation Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income Taxation taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current As this is a complex area, investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in tax years beginning before disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, in general terms, more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning or disposing ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends of shares or ADSs in the Company held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
paid by the Company with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be qualified This section does not, however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain dividend income.
classes of holders subject to special rules including officers of the Company, employees and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the Companys A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross voting stock.
The tax consequences of the return of capital and the share consolidation income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually undertaken during the 2007 financial year pursuant to a B share scheme are also not received from the Company, and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle the US covered in this section.
Guidance for holders of B shares in certain specific holder to a foreign tax credit.
circumstances was included in the circular for the issue of B shares, a copy of which is available on the Companys website at www.
Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal income and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US tax purposes: corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States.
For the purpose of the foreign a citizen or resident of the United States: tax credit limitation, foreign source income is classified in one or two baskets, and the a US domestic corporation: credit for foreign taxes on income in any basket is limited to US federal income tax an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax regardless allocable to that income.
Generally, dividends paid by the Company will constitute of its source: or foreign source income in the passive income basket.
a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income the trust.
will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made, determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution, regardless If a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the partnership.
A partner in a partnership holding the shares or ADSs should consult the dividend payment is to be included in income to the date the payment is its tax advisor with regard to the US federal income tax treatment of an investment in converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally, the the shares or ADSs.
gain or loss will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published rulings and court Taxation of capital gains decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom and the Double Taxation UK taxation Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom the treaty, all as A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
of the Companys shares or ADSs if the US holder is: This section is further based in part upon the representations of the depositary and a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreement the United Kingdom: will be performed in accordance with its terms.
a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or ordinarily resident Based on this assumption, for purposes of the treaty and the US-UK double taxation for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposed of the shares convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, and for US or ADSs during that period a temporary non-resident, unless the shares or ADSs federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be were also acquired during that period, such liability arising on that individuals treated as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADSs.
return to the UK: Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, will not be subject to a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being US federal income tax or to UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or see the section on these taxes on the following page.
a citizen of the United States or a US domestic corporation that carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or, in Taxation of dividends the case of US domestic companies, through a permanent establishment and that UK taxation has used the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation Under current UK tax law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends paid by or has used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch the Company.
A shareholder that is a company resident for UK tax purposes in the or agency or permanent establishment.
United Kingdom will generally not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the Company.
The Government has announced the introduction of provisions with Under the treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are generally effect from 1 July 2009 which, if enacted in their current form, would result in subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined shareholders who are within the charge to corporate tax being subject to corporate under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States and as required by tax on dividends paid by the Company, unless the dividends fall within an exempt the terms of the treaty.
However, individuals who are residents of either the United class and certain other conditions are met.
It is expected that the dividends paid by Kingdom or the United States and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the Company would generally be exempt.
132 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of ADSs of the Company, provided that preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not only in the times outside the United Kingdom.
A transfer of shares in the Company in registered country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition, but also in that form will attract ad valorem stamp duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
such an individual comprises a temporary non-resident.
SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares in the US federal income taxation Company in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of the transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an the Companys shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
amount realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares or However, an agreement to transfer the ADSs of the Company will not give rise ADSs.
Generally, a capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised in tax to SDRT.
years beginning before 1 January 2011 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided the holder has a holding period of more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally PFIC rules be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit The Company does not believe that the shares or ADSs will be treated as stock of a limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income tax purposes.
This conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject Additional tax considerations to change.
If the Company is treated as a PFIC, any gain realised on the sale or other UK inheritance tax disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain, An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in to the shares or ADSs.
Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has respect of the Companys shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of realised such gain and certain excess distributions rateably over the holding period the shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business such year to which the gain was allocated.
An interest charge in respect of the tax property of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the attributable to each such year would also apply.
Dividends received from Vodafone performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares or ADSs have been would not be eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to qualified dividend placed in trust by a settlor, they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when income for certain non-corporate holders.
the trust was created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument transferring shares in the Company to the custodian of the depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price or value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances and on issue to such a person, but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
In accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, any tax or duty payable on deposits of shares by the depositary or the custodian of the depositary will be charged to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 133
