Operating environment and strategy Vodafones strategy is focused on improving operational execution and pursuing growth opportunities in total telecommunications services, while delivering strong free cash flow.
The telecommunications industry drive network and IT savings through both consolidation and remains attractive centralisation of core activities, as well as local operating company Notwithstanding a challenging economic background and rising initiatives.
Vodafone also benefits from a variable cost base as only unemployment, the fundamentals of the telecommunications around one third of cash operating costs are fixed.
industry continue to be attractive.
The sector remains relatively resilient, but not immune, as it provides essential services that serve a May 2006 strategy fundamental human need to communicate for work and social In May 2006, Vodafone formulated a five point strategy and strong purposes.
In this environment, the sector leaders, such as Vodafone, progress has been made against the key objectives.
Mobile phone continue to be able to innovate and deliver new products and services usage has grown significantly, partly offsetting price declines, key as well as generate strong cash flow.
operating costs and capital expenditure targets have been met and exposure to emerging markets has increased.
The share of revenue Although revenue from traditional services of voice and messaging from non-core mobile or total communication services has grown in mature markets is growing more slowly due to competitive and through both significant data revenue growth and an increased fixed regulatory pressures, there remains a significant growth opportunity broadband presence.
In addition, the Group has refined its portfolio of in mobile data.
There are also growth opportunities in enterprise and businesses and disposed of several non-core assets.
Lastly, Vodafone broadband markets due to increasing demand for integrated solutions, has maintained a disciplined approach to its capital structure, which has international services and converged offerings.
proved right for the business, particularly in the current environment, and also returned a significant level of cash to shareholders.
Within the Vodafone footprint, emerging markets, such as India, continue to exhibit the potential for strong growth due to low mobile Evolving telecommunications environment penetration rates of around 38% on average, compared to over 120% A number of challenges have evolved since 2006.
In particular, the in Europe, which together with higher GDP growth prospects, provide macro economic environment has become more challenging.
Competitive pressures continue to be strong, contributing to price declines of around 15% per annum.
Consumers have an ever growing Vodafone is well positioned in the choice of converged communication offers from established mobile telecommunications industry and fixed line operators and newer entrants including handset The Group believes its leading market position is demonstrated by a manufacturers, internet based companies and software providers.
In strong level of free cash flow, with some 18 billion generated over the addition, mobile virtual network operators, that lease network capacity last three years, a resilient structure based on a diverse portfolio of from mobile companies, are becoming increasingly prevalent.
Finally, assets in both mature and emerging markets and a number one or two regulators continue to press for substantially lower mobile termination ranking in most countries in which it operates.
The Group has also rates and roaming prices, and these areas together account for around been a pioneer in data products and services, developing high speed 17% of Group revenue.
mobile broadband networks and providing simple to use and attractive devices with features such as touch screen technology.
The Group has November 2008 revised strategy a recognised brand in consumer markets and a strong position in the In light of the changing environment the Group revised its May 2006 enterprise segment.
In addition, Vodafone is already well placed to strategy.
The new key target is to focus on driving free cash flow benefit from growth in emerging markets, with a presence in a number generation.
This target is supported by four main objectives: drive of the countries where significant growth is expected.
In a difficult operational performance, pursue growth opportunities in total market environment, the ability to control and reduce costs is ever communications, execute in emerging markets and strengthen more important.
Against this background, the Group continues to capital discipline.
May 2006 strategy Environment: economic, competitive and regulatory pressures May 2006 Progress to November 2008 Revenue stimulation and Driving usage growth to offset price declines Economy Weaker global economic growth and cost reduction in Europe Delivered on cost and capital expenditure targets rising unemployment Lower roaming revenue as enterprise and consumer customers travel less Emerging market growth Increased presence: Ghana, India, Poland, Qatar and Vodacom Competition Ongoing price reductions due to competitive pressures Total communications Annualised data revenue 2.8 billion New entrants: Growing range of providers Broadband capabilities in 12 markets of converged fixed and mobile services Expanding presence of mobile virtual network operators Manage portfolio for Disposal of non-core assets: Switzerland and Belgium maximum returns Regulation Industry regulators continue to press for lower mobile termination rates and Capital structure and Higher dividends: 7.51p in 2008 6.07p in 2006 roaming prices, which impacts around shareholder returns 20 billion cash returned to shareholders 17% of Group revenue 8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Executive summary We are confident Drive operational performance Vodafone continues to adopt a market by market approach focused Vodafone aims to improve execution in existing businesses through on the service, rather than the technology, and targeted at enterprise that our strategy is customer value enhancement and cost reduction.
and high value consumers as a priority.
appropriate for the current operating Value enhancement involves maximising the value of existing Execute in emerging markets environment customer relationships, not just the revenue.
This approach shifts Vodafone is already represented in a number of attractive emerging away from unit based tariffs to propositions that deliver much more markets.
The Groups principal focus is now on execution in these Vittorio Colao value to customers in return for greater commitment, incremental markets, particularly in India, Turkey and the existing African footprint, Chief Executive penetration of the account or more balanced commercial costs.
This following the acquisition of a controlling interest in Vodacom based in requires a more disciplined approach to commercial costs to ensure South Africa.
Where possible, Vodafone will also seek to maximise the investment is focused on those customers with higher lifetime mobile data opportunity.
While new markets are of interest, Vodafone value.
Customer value enhancement replaces the previous focus on will be cautious and selective on future expansion.
The primary focus revenue stimulation.
will remain on driving results from the existing footprint.
The Group has established a significant number of initiatives which Strengthen capital discipline are expected to reduce current operating costs by approximately The Group is focused on generating 5 billion to 6 billion of free cash 1 billion per annum by the 2011 financial year, to help offset the flow per annum, excluding licence and spectrum and any potential pressures from cost inflation and the competitive environment and to CFC tax settlement.
In terms of cash deployment, the priority is to enable investment in growth opportunities.
As a result, on a like for invest in existing businesses, expand in the growth areas of mobile like basis, Vodafone is targeting broadly stable operating costs in data, enterprise and broadband and acquire, where appropriate, new Europe and for operating costs to grow at a lower rate than revenue in spectrum to support voice and data traffic growth.
emerging markets between the 2008 and 2011 financial years.
Capital intensity is expected to be around 10% over this period in Europe Beyond this, the Group will aim to enhance returns to shareholders, and to trend to European levels in emerging markets over the primarily by increasing dividends.
In November 2008, the Board longer term.
adopted a progressive dividend policy where dividend growth reflects the underlying trading and cash performance of the Group.
The Group Pursue growth opportunities in total communications remains committed to the current low single A long term average Regarding growth opportunities, the three target areas are mobile credit rating.
Vodafone has already made significant progress on mobile data, with annual revenue of 3 billion, 26% higher After investing in existing business and returns to shareholders, the on an organic basis than that of a year ago, but the opportunity remains Group will consider opportunities to reshape the portfolio.
In emerging significant as the proportion of the customer base that regularly uses markets, the focus is on execution rather than expansion.
In addition, data services is only around 10% in Europe.
In the enterprise segment, the Groups current capital structure implies that any significant Vodafone has a strong position in core mobile services, mainly acquisition would likely need to be funded through portfolio disposals.
The aim is to build upon this position and Vodafone supports in-market consolidation, such as the recent expand into the broader communications market, serving small and agreement to merge the Australian assets of Vodafone and Hutchison medium sized businesses with converged fixed and mobile products 3G Australia to form a 50:50 joint venture.
and services and to continue to increase the Groups penetration of multinational accounts.
In fixed broadband, the Group has a presence in all of its European markets and 4.6 million customers globally.
November 2008 revised strategy Focus on free cash flow generation and execution Progress Drive operational performance Value enhancement Launched new products in a number of markets, which offer Cost reduction customers more value in return for increased commitment Accelerated 1 billion cost reduction programme: expect to achieve 65% in 2010 Pursue growth opportunities Mobile data Expanded range of data devices with the BlackBerry Storm, in total communications Enterprise iPhone and netbooks with built-in broadband Broadband Revenue growth of 9% in Vodafone Global Enterprise 1 million new fixed broadband customers: closing base of 4.6 million Execute in emerging markets Delivery in existing markets Nationwide footprint in India Selective expansion Commenced operations in Qatar since year end cautious approach Acquired Gateway in Africa to strengthen total communications portfolio Strengthen capital discipline Shareholder returns Returned over 87% of free cash flow before licence and spectrum Clear priorities for payments to shareholders in the 2009 financial year surplus capital In-market consolidation through merger of Vodafone Australia with Hutchison 3G Australia Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 9
