Audit report on the Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK of Vodafone Group Plc and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the balance sheet and the related company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant notes 1 to 10.
These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent the accounting policies set out therein.
company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and on the information in the directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the parent company error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Auditing UK and Ireland.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report the information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent company to you whether in our opinion the directors report is consistent with the parent financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Deloitte LLP remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read the information contained in the annual report for the above year as described United Kingdom in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent 19 May 2009 company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibility does not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
120 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009
