Selected financial data Restated Restated Restated 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 At year ended 31 March m m m m m Consolidated income statement data Revenue 41,017 35,478 31,104 29,350 26,678 Operating profit loss 5,857 10,047 1,564 14,084 7,878 Profit loss before taxation 4,189 9,001 2,383 14,853 7,285 Profit loss for the financial year from continuing operations 3,080 6,756 4,806 17,233 5,416 Profit loss for the financial year 3,080 6,756 5,222 20,131 6,598 Consolidated balance sheet data Total assets 152,699 127,270 109,617 126,502 145,218 Total equity 84,777 76,471 67,293 85,312 111,958 Total equity shareholders funds 86,162 78,043 67,067 85,425 112,110 1 Earnings per share Weighted average number of shares millions Basic 52,737 53,019 55,144 62,607 66,196 Diluted 52,969 53,287 55,144 62,607 66,427 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share Profit loss from continuing operations 5.84p 12.56p 8.94 p 27.66 p 8.12p Profit loss for the financial year 5.84p 12.56p 9.70 p 32.31 p 9.80p Diluted earnings loss per ordinary share Profit loss from continuing operations 5.81p 12.50p 8.94 p 27.66 p 8.09p Profit loss for the financial year 5.81p 12.50p 9.70 p 32.31 p 9.77p 1 2 Cash dividends Amount per ordinary share pence 7.77p 7.51p 6.76p 6.07p 4.07p Amount per ADS pence 77.7p 75.1p 67.6p 60.7p 40.7p Amount per ordinary share US cents 11.11c 14.91c 13.28c 10.56c 7.68c Amount per ADS US cents 111.1c 149.1c 132.8c 105.6c 76.8c Other data 3 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.2 3.9 7.0 Deficit 4,389 16,520 Notes: 1 See note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, Earnings loss per share.
Earnings and dividends per ADS is calculated by multiplying earnings per ordinary share by ten, the number of ordinary shares per ADS.
Dividend per ADS is calculated on the same basis.
2 The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 was proposed by the directors on 19 May 2009 and is payable on 7 August 2009 to holders of record as of 5 June 2009.
This dividend has been translated into US dollars at 31 March 2009 for ADS holders but will be payable in US dollars under the terms of the ADS depositary agreement.
3 For the purposes of calculating these ratios, earnings consist of profit before tax adjusted for fixed charges, dividend income from associated undertakings, share of profits and losses from associated undertakings and profits and losses on ordinary activities before taxation from discontinued operations.
Fixed charges comprise one third of payments under operating leases, representing the estimated interest element of these payments, interest payable and similar charges and preferred share dividends.
144 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Contact details Investor Relations Telephone: 44 0 1635 664447 Media Relations Telephone: 44 0 1635 664444 Corporate Responsibility Fax: 44 0 1635 674478 This constitutes the annual report of Vodafone Group Plc the Company for the year E-mail: responsibility@vodafone.
com ended 31 March 2009 and is dated 19 May 2009.
The content of the Groups website Website: www.
com should not be considered to form part of this annual report or the Companys annual report on Form 20-F.
In the discussion of the Groups reported financial position, operating results and cash flow for the year ended 31 March 2009, information is presented to provide readers with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management.
However, this additional information presented is not uniformly defined by all companies, including those in the Groups industry.
Accordingly, it may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies.
Additionally, certain information presented is derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure.
Such non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure.
For further information see Non-GAAP information on pages 138 to 139 and Definition of terms on page 143.
The terms Vodafone, the Group, we, our and us refer to the Company and, as applicable, its subsidiary undertakings and or its interests in joint ventures and associated undertakings.
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the Groups financial condition, results of operations and business management and strategy, plans and objectives for the Group.
For further details, please see Forward-looking statements on page 142 and Principal risk factors and uncertainties on pages 38 and 39 for a discussion of the risks associated with these statements.
Vodafone, the Vodafone logo, Vodafone live!, Vodafone Mobile Broadband, Vodafone Office, Vodafone Wireless Office, Vodafone Passport, Vodafone Speak, Vodafone Email Plus, Vodafone M-PESA, Vodafone Money Transfer, Vodafone Station and Vodacom are trade marks of the Vodafone Group.
The RIM and BlackBerry families of trade marks, images and symbols are the exclusive properties and trade marks of Research in Motion Limited, used by permission.
RIM and BlackBerry are registered with the US Patent and Trademark Office and may be pending or registered in other countries.
Windows Mobile is either a registered trade mark or trade mark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and or other countries.
Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the trade marks of their respective owners.
Copyright Vodafone Group 2009 This report has been printed on Revive 75 Special Silk paper.
The composition of the paper is 50% fide-inked post consumer waste, 25% pre-consumer waste and 25% virgin wood fibre.
It has been certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
It is manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 certificate for environmental management.
The mill uses pulps that are elemental chlorine free ECF and totally chlorine free TCF process and the inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
Designed and produced by Addison, www.
co. uk Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2009 Vodafone Group Plc Vodafone Group Plc Registered Office Annual Report Vodafone House For the year ended 31 March 2009 The Connection Newbury Berkshire RG14 2FN England Registered in England No.
com Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action to be taken, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if not, another appropriately authorised independent adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Vodafone Group Plc please forward this document together with the accompanying Form of Proxy at once to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred only part of your holding of shares, you should retain these documents.
This Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting does not constitute a summary of the Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2009 the Annual Report and should not be relied upon as a substitute for reading the full Annual Report.
The Annual Report is available on Vodafones website at www.
com investor or can be obtained by contacting Vodafones Registrars whose details are on page 11.
Vodafone will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US its Annual Report on Form 20-F which corresponds to the 10-K for a US corporation and any other information as required.
Vodafone, the Vodafone logo, Vodacom, Vodafone Money Transfer and Vodafone Mobile Broadband are trade marks of the Vodafone Group.
Copyright Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Chairmans Welcome and Highlights Your company is driven by strong cash generation, a sound liquidity position and a diverse and geographically spread customer base.
Sir John Bond Your Board refreshed the Companys strategy in November 2008 and set strategic Chairman priorities which it believes will help your Company come through the economic crisis.
The review did not lead to any radical change of direction but put renewed emphasis on operational performance, tight control of costs, free cash flow generation and a cautious approach to further footprint expansion.
The past year has seen us expand into two new markets Ghana and Qatar, slightly increase our shareholding in Polkomtel in Poland and attain majority control of our long-standing joint venture Vodacom in South Africa.
An important step towards in-market consolidation came with the agreement to merge our operation in Australia with the fourth largest operator, Hutchison 3G Australia, underlining the value creation which such consolidation can bring.
The past year has seen our new Chief Executive, Vittorio Colao, who succeeded Arun Sarin at last years AGM, put his deep knowledge of the mobile industry to good effect in steering your Company through economic recession.
I am delighted that your Board has also been joined by a leading African businessman, Samuel Jonah.
As we increase our interest in Africa, with the integration of Ghana Telecommunications into Vodafone, and our increased shareholding in Vodacom, Sam will bring invaluable Review of the year insights to our work.
This year your Company has delivered adjusted operating profit of 11.8 billion and generated 5.7 billion of free cash flow before licence and spectrum payments, Since the end of the financial year, Michel Combes, the Chief Executive of the Groups helped by foreign exchange movements and despite pressure on revenue in Europe Region, and Steve Pusey, the Group Chief Technology Officer, have been challenging economic circumstances.
This has allowed us to buy back 1 billion of appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June.
Their appointments will help ensure shares and pursue a progressive dividend policy.
The Board is recommending a final that there is a good balance on the Board of both executive and non-executive dividend of 5.20 pence, making a total for the year of 7.77 pence.
Regrettably, the directors and I am confident that they will be major contributors to the future of share price has declined by 17% since the beginning of the year, from 154.3 pence to your Company.
127.5 pence, but has nonetheless outperformed the FTSE 100 which has declined by 24% over the same period.
We have seen continuing growth in proportionate Finally, your Board has continued to fund the work of The Vodafone Foundation, which customer numbers to 303 million at year end, as well as growth in mobile voice is an important way of supporting the communities and societies where we make our minutes of use and particularly data services.
We invested 48 million in The Vodafone Foundation programmes during the 2009 financial year.
The Vodafone Foundation and the network of national affiliates There is considerable evidence that the economic crisis has had a significant effect in our markets continue to achieve high recognition for the contribution they make.
on the environment in which we operate, across our various markets.
Inevitably, during rapid economic decline and rising unemployment, our customers enterprise Your Board is pleased with the resilience of the Company and confident that the and consumer are looking carefully for ways to reduce their expenditure.
We have Company will be well positioned for economic recovery when it comes.
responded to the pressure on household and business expenses with pricing plans designed to address customers needs.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for the Companys shareholders So the telecommunications sector is not immune from the impact of the global to communicate with the directors and I sincerely hope that you will take the recession but it has demonstrated a greater degree of resilience than certain other opportunity to do so.
The services we provide have assumed increasing importance in the day to day lives of our customers.
We see this particularly in the way in which The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted our services, particularly data services such as email and internet access, offer new at the meeting, is set out on pages 6 to 11.
I would draw your attention to Resolution flexibility in the way people lead their business and personal lives.
23 which proposes changes to the Articles of Association and the explanation of the proposed changes on page 9 of this document.
The accompanying letter from the In addition to the impact of the economic downturn, we continued to see pricing Company Secretary provides further detail of the proposed changes to the dividend pressure lead to reductions of around 15% year on year in Europe.
The period of rapid payment method referred to in the explanation.
Your directors consider that the growth in new mobile customers in much of Europe is now over and we need to adjust Resolutions 1 to 24 on pages 6 and 7 are in the best interests of shareholders and they our resources accordingly.
We are well on our way to delivering the 1 billion reduction recommend that shareholders vote for the Resolutions.
in operating costs to which we are committed.
Sadly, this involves reducing our workforce but we nevertheless remain intent that Vodafone should continue to be a good place to I do understand that most shareholders will not be able to attend the AGM in person work.
With prudent control of capital expenditure and reductions to operating but nevertheless your vote is still important.
I would strongly encourage you, expenditure, your Company is positioning itself to benefit from the re-invigoration of the regardless of the number of shares you own, to vote and details on how to do this are economy when it comes, driven by strong cash generation, a sound liquidity position, set out on page 11.
The results of voting on all the resolutions will be announced via and the diversity and geographic distribution of our customer base.
the Regulatory News Service and published on the Companys website as soon as possible after the end of the meeting.
Your Company will continue to promote innovation in products and services across the range of our markets.
For example, over 6 million people are now using the Vodafone Your Board appreciates your continuing support.
Money Transfer system branded M-PESA in Kenya in Kenya, Tanzania and Afghanistan.
With over 4 billion people owning mobile handsets, we believe that for the majority of the worlds population, mobile is likely to be the primary means of access to the internet.
In our developed markets, we will continue to enhance our customers communication capability, with innovative products such as netbooks and laptops with embedded SIM Sir John Bond cards to connect directly to higher speed mobile data networks.
Chairman 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Highlights of Vodafone the year Foundation 3.5% increase in dividends per World of Difference is a Vodafone share to 7.77 pence.
Foundation programme which gives individuals the opportunity Free cash flow generation to secure funding to take a year remains strong despite out and work for a charity of their economic environment.
This unique programme currently operates in 12 Vodafone 1bn cost reduction Foundations around the World, programme is progressing well.
with over 120 people having participated.
Driving innovation: over 6 million users of Vodafone Vodafone Foundations also support Money Transfer system.
projects which use the power of Expanded range of data devices mobile to make a difference to the including netbooks and laptops Vodafone footprint expanded into Qatar.
with embedded SIM cards and Alongside the launch of the the BlackBerry Storm.
mHealth Alliance to promote best practice in these areas, the Greater emerging markets foundations have supported presence through increased projects which include innovative ownership of Vodacom, in mobile-adapted microscopes South Africa, and expansion into to assist with infectious disease new markets in Ghana and Qatar.
diagnosis in rural parts of the developing world.
Corporate Responsibility This years CR Report highlights how our expansion in emerging markets is providing social and economic For more information, visit: New data devices: touch 8 million new users of benefits by increasing access to www.
Vodafone is exploring ways to realise the potential of our products and services to help other industries cut their carbon footprint, and achieve our ambitious target to halve our own emissions by 2020.
The CR Report also outlines our progress during 2009 in managing other significant social and environmental impacts from our business.
More detail on CR performance for the year ended 31 March 2009 will be available in the Vodafone 2009 CR report and at www.
120 participants in The Vodafone Foundation World of Difference programme in 2008.
Vodafone Group Plc 1 Performance at a Glance Vodafone is the worlds leading international mobile communications group by revenue, providing a wide range of communications services.
Group 1 Revenue Adjusted operating profit Free cash flow Capital expenditure bn bn bn bn 41.0bn 11.8bn 5.7bn 5.9bn 15.6% growth 16.7% growth 2.5% growth 16.4% growth Analysis of Group revenue 2008 Adjusted operating profit 2008 Free cash flow Capital fixed asset additions bn bn m m 41.0 11.8 6.3 5.9 5.7 5.6 35.5 10.1 5.1 9.5 31.1 4.2 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 1 Before licence and spectrum payments.
Financial highlights Operational highlights Total dividends per share up 3.5% to 7.77 pence: final Over 302 million proportionate mobile customers dividend per share of 5.20 pence Free cash flow generation remains strong despite Closing fixed broadband customer base of 4.6 million, economic environment up 1 million during the year Increased data revenue driven by higher penetration Touch screen BlackBerry Storm available exclusively of Vodafone Mobile Broadband cards and handheld to Vodafones customers in 11 markets business devices for internet and email services Group adjusted operating profit of 11.8 billion before 7.2 Mbps high speed mobile broadband network impairment charges of 5.9 billion available in key areas Verizon Wireless Alltel acquisition creates largest US Vodafone Mobile Broadband USB modem won iF design wireless operator, with 87 million customers recognising best product design in the world 1 billion cost reduction programme accelerated: over Invested 48 million in The Vodafone Foundation 65% expected to be achieved in the 2010 financial year programmes during the year 2 Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Regions 1 1 Revenue Adjusted operating Operating free Capital expenditure 1 1 2 bn profit bn cash flow bn bn 0.1 0.6 5.8 1.9 3.5 5.5 2.9 6.6 0.5 0.7 0.9 7.6 29.6 % growth % growth % growth % growth Europe 13.6 6.8 3.0 14.8 Africa and 11.2 13.3 28.5 4.9 Central Europe Asia Pacific and 32.3 0.9 100 25.6 Middle East 3 Verizon Wireless US 38.9 44.7 1 The sum of these amounts do not equal Group totals due to 2 Before licence and spectrum payments.
3 T his amount is not included in related Group total as Common Functions and intercompany eliminations.
Verizon Wireless is an associated undertaking.
Service revenue Voice Messaging Data Fixed and other services Service revenue bn bn bn bn bn 26.9 4.5 3.0 3.9 38.3 % growth % growth % growth % growth % growth 11.4 12.8 43.7 37.9 15.9 Voice growth 2009 % Messaging growth 2009 % Data growth 2009 % Fixed line and other Group service revenue growth 2009 % growth 2009 % 26.9 4.5 3.0 3.9 38.3 24.2 4.0 33.0 21.6 3.5 28.9 2.8 2.1 2.4 1.4 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 Vodafone Group Plc 3 Chief Executives Review These results demonstrate the benefit of the rapid action we took to address the current economic conditions and highlight the benefits of our geographic diversity.
Vittorio Colao completed our transaction with Telkom in South Africa and increased our ownership Chief Executive of Vodacom to 65%.
EBITDA margins declined by around three percentage points, driven substantially by lower profitability in Turkey where, having appointed new management in early 2009, we will continue to implement our turnaround plan with a primary focus on network quality, distribution and competitive offers.
In Asia Pacific and Middle East, revenue increased by 19% on a pro forma basis, reflecting a strong contribution from India where revenue grew by 33% on a pro forma basis.
During the 2009 financial year we added 24.6 million customers in India and ended the year with the highest rate of net additions in the market.
In Egypt, revenue increased by 11.9% at constant exchange rates and EBITDA margins remained broadly flat.
The EBITDA margin in the region declined by 3.7 percentage points, reflecting lower margins in India caused by the pricing environment, the impact of our IT outsourcing agreement and investment in new circles.
Verizon Wireless posted another set of strong results.
Organic service revenue growth was 10.5%, driven by increased customer penetration and data.
In January 2009, Verizon Wireless completed its acquisition of Alltel which is expected to generate cost synergies with a net present value of over US$9 billion and makes Financial review of the year Verizon Wireless the largest US mobile company with 87 million customers.
During These financial results reflect the benefits of the actions we took to adjust to the the year, we have deepened our commercial relationship with Verizon Wireless, deteriorating economic environment, in particular with respect to costs.
We achieved which now contributes 30% of our adjusted operating profit, with joint initiatives results in line with all of the guidance ranges we issued in November 2008 and also around LTE technology, enterprise customers and BlackBerry devices.
generated free cash flow in line with the initial guidance range we established in May 2008, before the extent of the downturn became apparent.
The Group invested 5.9 billion in capital expenditure, including 1.4 billion in India to drive growth.
Capital intensity in Europe was slightly above our 10% target as we took During the year, Group revenue increased by 15.6% to 41.0 billion and by 1.3% on a advantage of our strong cash generation to accelerate investment in broadband pro forma basis, including India, which was acquired in May 2007.
The Groups EBITDA and higher speed capability on our networks in order margin declined by 1.8 percentage points, in line with the first half and our to continue to support our strategy and improve our expectations, one third of which was due to the impact of acquisitions and disposals, customers experience.
Dividends per share pence foreign exchange and business mix.
Group adjusted operating profit increased by 16.7% to 11.8 billion, with a growing contribution from Verizon Wireless and foreign The Group incurred impairment charges of 5.9 billion 7.77 currency benefits offsetting weaker performance in Europe.
At year end, Vodafone in the financial year, the majority of which related 7.51 had 303 million proportionate mobile customers worldwide.
6.76 Cash generation remained robust, with free cash flow of 5.7 billion before licence Adjusted earnings per share increased by 37.4% to and spectrum payments, up around 3%, with foreign currency benefits being offset 17.17 pence, benefiting from a favourable foreign by the deferral of a 0.2 billion dividend from Verizon Wireless, which was received in exchange environment and a one off tax benefit.
Excluding these factors, adjusted earnings per share rose by around 3%.
The economic downturn is affecting Vodafone in several ways.
In our more mature European and Central European operations, voice and messaging revenue has In line with the Groups progressive dividend policy, declined, primarily driven by lower growth in usage and continued double digit price dividends per share have increased by 3.5% to 7.77 2007 2008 2009 declines.
Roaming revenue fell due to lower business and leisure travel.
Enterprise pence, reflecting the underlying earnings and cash revenue growth slowed as our business customers reduced activity and headcount.
Double digit data revenue growth continued, as we actively market increasingly attractive network speeds, handsets and services into an under penetrated market.
Strategy In contrast to Europe, results in Africa and India remained robust driven by continued We have made good progress in implementing the strategy announced in but lower GDP growth and increasing penetration.
In Europe, organic service revenue declined by 1.7% reflecting the economy and a Drive operational performance strongly competitive environment.
Ongoing price pressures and lower volume To enhance commercial value, we are developing and launching services which deliver growth in our core voice products are still being substantially offset by good growth more value in return for a wider commitment from customers.
In Germany, we have in data.
Europe EBITDA margins, including Common Functions, which substantially extended our SuperFlat tariff family to include bundled mobile data and fixed broadband support our European operations, declined by 1.1 percentage points, driven by an options.
SuperFlat net additions have remained strong at 404,000 in the last quarter.
increasing contribution from lower margin fixed broadband.
Mobile contribution Similar concepts of value enhancement products have been launched in most European margins remained stable.
Operating free cash flow before licence and spectrum markets, including Italy, Spain, the UK and Ireland.
payments was strong at 7.6 billion.
We have accelerated our 1 billion cost reduction programme, which will help us to In Africa and Central Europe, organic revenue grew by 3.9%, with double digit revenue offset the pressures of cost inflation and the competitive environment and invest in growth at Vodacom being offset by weakness in Turkey.
After the year end, we revenue growth opportunities.
In the 2009 financial year, we achieved approximately 4 Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 200 million of cost savings, which were partially offset by restructuring charges.
We Strengthen capital discipline now intend to deliver at least 65% of the total programme in the 2010 financial year, During the year we returned approximately 87% of free cash flow before licence and ahead of plan.
The benefits of the programme are visible in our results.
In the 2009 spectrum payments to shareholders in the form of financial year, despite significant increases in mobile voice minutes and data usage, dividends and share buy backs.
Net debt has increased 87% of free cash Europes operating expenses remained broadly flat and mobile contribution margins to 34 billion, primarily as a result of foreign currency flow before licence were stable.
The Group has retained a low single and spectrum A credit rating in line with its target.
payments returned Since November 2008: we have established the Vodafone Roaming Services business to shareholders unit, which will manage international wholesale roaming activities across the Group: we In February 2009, consistent with our active stance on have outsourced our field network maintenance operations in the UK: and we have in-market consolidation, we agreed to merge Vodafone executed network sharing arrangements across Germany, Ireland, Spain and the UK.
Australia with Hutchison 3G Australia to create a new jointly owned company which will operate under the Vodafone brand.
This transaction, which is subject to regulatory We are reviewing our programme to identify further ways in which the Group can approval, is expected to generate cost synergies with a present value of AUS$2 billion benefit from its regional scale and further reduce costs in order to offset external and will release capital to Vodafone through a AUS$0.5 billion deferred payment.
pressures and competitor action and invest in growth.
Customers in Australia will benefit from the enlarged entitys scale.
Pursue growth opportunities in total communications Prospects for the year ahead Data revenue grew by 25.9% on an organic basis and is now over 3 billion.
We In Europe and Central Europe, operating conditions will be challenging in the 2010 continue to push penetration of handheld business and PC connectivity devices.
IMF forecasts indicate a GDP decline of 4% in 2009 across the Vodafone April, Verizon Wireless joined the Joint Innovation Lab JIL established by Vodafone, footprint within Europe and Central Europe and that unemployment could increase China Mobile and SoftBank.
The JIL is creating a single platform for developers to significantly.
In these markets, we expect that voice and messaging revenue trends will create mobile widgets and applications on multiple operating systems and access continue as a result of ongoing pricing pressures and slowing usage.
However, we expect the partners combined 1.1 billion customer base.
Vodafone will also provide access further growth in data revenue.
In Turkey, where we will focus on our turnaround to third parties to billing, location and other platforms, to enhance user experience plan, we expect that the 2010 financial year will be challenging.
Revenue growth in and create a favourable environment for all.
other emerging markets, in particular India and Africa, is expected to continue as we drive penetration in these markets.
We expect another year of good performance at In fixed broadband, we have continued to grow our customer base in Italy and Spain, Verizon Wireless.
and in Germany, returned to revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
We now have 4.6 million customers, an increase of around 1 million during the year, of which Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in the range of 11.0 billion to 11.8 billion.
0.6 million arose in the second half.
The addition of appropriate quality fixed We have widened our outlook for adjusted operating profit this year to reflect current broadband capability is increasing the range of products we can offer to customers, economic uncertainty.
Performance will be determined by actual economic trends, our in particular in enterprise, and providing us with the ability to compete with success in closing the performance gaps we have identified in certain markets and the integrated competitors.
extent to which we decide to reinvest cost savings into total communications growth opportunities.
Underlying EBITDA margins, before the impact of acquisitions and Europes enterprise revenue grew by 1.2% during the year, ahead of overall business disposals, foreign exchange and business mix, are expected to decline by a similar trends, demonstrating the progress we are making to address the enterprise amount to the 2009 financial year.
This trend reflects the benefit of the acceleration of opportunity.
Vodafone Global Enterprise, which serves our larger enterprise the Groups cost savings programme in a weaker revenue environment.
Overall Group customers on a Group-wide basis, delivered revenue growth of around 9%, EBITDA margin is expected to decline at a slightly slower rate.
demonstrating the appeal of Vodafone to multinational corporations.
Free cash flow before licence and spectrum payments is expected to be in the range of Execute in emerging markets 6.0 billion to 6.5 billion, ahead of our medium term target to deliver between 5.0 We have continued to drive penetration in India, generating strong revenue growth and 6.0 billion annual free cash flow.
We intend to maintain European capital intensity from our brand and commercial offers and a substantial investment in network at around 10% of revenue and to continue to invest significantly in India.
Indus Towers, our infrastructure joint venture with Bharti and Idea, began expenditure is expected to be similar to last year after adjusting for foreign currency.
operating during the financial year.
We expect Indus Towers will enable Vodafone to increase its capital efficiency in India and also to benefit from revenue generated from Summary selling capacity to other operators.
Growth at Vodacom, which has strengthened its Overall, these results reflect the benefits of Vodafones exposure to a diverse range of total communications offering through the acquisition of Gateway, has been strong.
economies, our successful exploitation of data services and the opportunities derived Our performance in Turkey, where we remain focused on our turnaround plan, has from our regional approach, as well as the initial impact of our accelerated 1 billion been disappointing.
We will continue to invest throughout the 2010 financial year to cost savings programme.
In Qatar, the Group commenced operations after the end of the financial year, having been awarded the second licence with its partner, the Qatar We are confident that our strategy is appropriate for the current operating Foundation, during the year.
In August 2008, the Group acquired 70.0% of Ghana environment.
Telecommunications, an integrated mobile and fixed line telecommunications operator, which has since been rebranded to Vodafone.
Whilst emerging markets are of interest to us, we remain cautious and selective on future expansion.
Our primary focus will remain on driving results from our Vittorio Colao existing assets.
Chief Executive Vodafone Group Plc 5 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-fifth Annual General Meeting of Vodafone 20 That: Group Plc Vodafone or the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II 20.1 the authority conferred on the directors by Article 16.2 of the Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on Tuesday, 28 July Companys Articles of Association be renewed and for this purpose: 2009 at 11.00 a. m. to transact the business set out in the resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 20 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 21 to i the Section 80 amount be US$10,443,410,757: and 24 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
ii t he prescribed period be the period ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 30 September 2010, The Board recommends a vote FOR Resolutions 1 to 24 whichever is the earlier: and 1 To receive the Companys accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for 20.2 the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to the year ended 31 March 2009. and in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant 2 That Sir John Bond, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the 1985 Act comprising re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the 1985 Act up to a further nominal amount of US$17,495,714,659 in connection with an 3 That John Buchanan, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for offer by way of a rights issue, such authority to expire on the date of the re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 30 September 2010, whichever is the earlier but so that the Company may make offers and enter into 4 That Vittorio Colao, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
relevant securities to be allotted after the authority ends.
5 That Michel Combes, a director retiring in accordance with the Companys F or the purposes of the authority in paragraph 20.2 above rights Articles of Association, be and is hereby elected as a director of the Company.
issue means an offer to: 6 That Andy Halford, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for i o rdinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
practicable to their existing holdings: and 7 That Alan Jebson, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for ii p eople who are holders of other equity securities if this is required re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, 8 That Samuel Jonah, a director retiring in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, be and is hereby elected as a director of the Company.
t o subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable letter or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period 9 That Nick Land, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, before payment for the securities is due, but subject in both cases to be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional 10 That Anne Lauvergeon, a director retiring voluntarily and offering herself for entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
in, or under the laws of, any territory.
11 That Simon Murray, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for T he authorities in this Resolution apply in substitution for all previous re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
authorities pursuant to Section 80 of the 1985 Act.
12 That Stephen Pusey, a director retiring in accordance with the Companys 21 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 20, Articles of Association, be and is hereby elected as a director of the Company.
21.1 the power conferred on the directors by Article 16.3 of the Companys 13 That Luc Vandevelde, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for Articles of Association be renewed for the prescribed period specified re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
in paragraph 20.1 ii of Resolution 20 and for such period the Section 89 amount be US$2,890,329,462: and 14 That Anthony Watson, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
21.2 the directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the 1985 Act wholly for cash pursuant to the 15 That Philip Yea, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, authority given by paragraph 20.2 of Resolution 20 above in be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
connection with a rights issue as if Section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply to such allotment, such power to expire on the date of the 16 That the final dividend recommended by the directors of 5.20p per ordinary Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 30 September 2010, whichever share for the year ended 31 March 2009 be declared payable on the ordinary is the earlier but so that the Company may make offers and enter into shares of the Company to all members whose names appeared on the Register agreements during this period which would, or might, require equity of Members on 5 June 2009 and that such dividend be paid on 7 August 2009. securities to be allotted after the power ends and the board of directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the 17 To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board for the year ended power had not ended.
For the purposes of this Resolution rights issue has the same meaning as that 18 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company until the conclusion of set out in Resolution 20 above.
the next General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
19 To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
6 Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting 22 That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes Notes 1 A shareholder is entitled to appoint another person as his her Proxy to exercise all or any of his her of Section 166 of the 1985 Act to make market purchases as defined in Section rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares of the Company provided that: than one Proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each Proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A Proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
Shareholders who have lodged a 22.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be Proxy whether by post, via the Internet, by submitting a CREST message if applicable or by telephone purchased is 5,200,000,000: to the dedicated Vodafone Annual General Meeting Proxy Voting line are not precluded from attending and voting at the meeting themselves.
2 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies 22.2 the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him 3 US 11 7 cents: her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a Proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such Proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have 22.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for any a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The rights relating to ordinary share does not exceed the higher of 1 5% above the average Proxy appointments in Note 1 do not apply to Nominated Persons.
closing price of such shares for the five business days on the London 3 Entitlement to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast at the Annual General Meeting, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of Stock Exchange prior to the date of purchase and 2 the higher of the members at 11.00 a. m. on Sunday, 26 July 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on time fixed for the adjourned meeting as the case may be.
In each case, changes to the register of the London Stock Exchange: and members after such time will be disregarded.
4 Copies of the service contracts of the directors of the Company and the terms and conditions of appointment of all non-executive directors of the Company, a copy of the Companys current 22.4 this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Memorandum and Articles of Association, a copy of a document marked A containing the full Meeting of the Company held in 2010 or on 30 September 2010, amended terms of the proposed articles of association referred to in Resolution 23 and a copy of this Notice of Meeting will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and the whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours on any time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract weekday excluding Saturday, Sunday and public holidays from the date of Notice of AGM until and for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which including the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 from 10.45 a. m. on that date until the conclusion of might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
5 A copy of the document marked A containing the full amended terms of the proposed articles of 23 That with effect from the end of this Annual General Meeting or any adjournment association referred to in Resolution 23 and a copy of this Notice of Meeting are also available for thereof, the Articles of Association of the Company be and are hereby amended viewing on the Companys website www.
6 As at 22 May 2009, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice, the Companys so that they shall be in the form of the amended articles of association produced 3 issued share capital comprised 57,806,589,243 ordinary shares of US$0.11 7 each including treasury to the meeting, marked A and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of shares and 50,000 7 per cent cumulative fixed rate shares of 1 each.
The holders of ordinary shares identification.
are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands every ordinary shareholder who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll every ordinary shareholder 24 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
The holders of 7 per not less than 14 clear days notice.
cent cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company in very limited circumstances, as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
7 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in By Order of the Board place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate Stephen Scott representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a Secretary vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a Berkshire RG14 2FN, England designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who 2 June 2009 attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
8 CREST members who wish to appoint and or give instructions to a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so through the Companys Registrars the Issuers Agent by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments as set out on the Form of Proxy.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Vodafone Group Plc 7 Business of the Annual General Meeting The purpose of each of the Resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting is The authority in paragraph 20.1 of Resolution 20 will allow the directors to allot up to as follows: 10,443,410,757 ordinary shares for the period ending on the earlier of 30 September 2010 or the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010.
The authority Resolution 1 Financial Statements represents approximately 19.9% of the ordinary share capital in issue at 22 May 2009.
The first item of business is the requirement for shareholders to receive the This percentage excludes 5,319,445,266 ordinary shares held in treasury at that date, Companys accounts for the financial year which ended on 31 March 2009 together which represented 10.1% of the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in with the reports of the directors and the auditors.
This authority complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority, other Resolutions 2 to 15 Retirement and Re-election of Directors than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its executive and employee Election of Directors share plans.
Under the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years.
Notwithstanding The authority in paragraph 20.2 of Resolution 20 will allow the directors to allot new the provisions of the Articles, in the interests of good corporate governance, the shares and other relevant securities only in connection with a rights issue up to a directors have resolved that, each year, they will all retire voluntarily and submit further nominal value of US$17,495,714,659.
This authority represents approximately themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
In addition, Samuel Jonah was 33% of the ordinary share capital in issue at 22 May 2009.
This percentage excludes appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2009, and Michel Combes and Steve 5,319,445,266 ordinary shares held in treasury at that date, which represented 10.1% Pusey were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June: they each submit of the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in issue at 22 May 2009.
This themselves for election by the shareholders for the first time.
Biographical details is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
of all the directors who are proposed for re-election election are set out in the Companys Annual Report.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares other than in connection with employee share and incentive plans.
The directors consider Resolution 16 Final Dividend it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance This Resolution seeks shareholder approval for the final ordinary dividend guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take recommended by the directors.
The directors are proposing a final dividend of 5.20 place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
An interim dividend of 2.57 pence per ordinary share was paid on 6 February 2009, making a total dividend for the year of 7.77 pence per If Resolution 20 is passed, this authority will expire on the earlier of 30 September ordinary share.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 7 August 2009 to 2010 or the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010. shareholders on the ordinary register on 5 June 2009.
Resolution 21 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Resolution 17 Remuneration Report Section 89 of the 1985 Act imposes restrictions on the issue of equity securities as In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the defined in the 1985 Act, which include the Companys ordinary shares which are, or Board submits the Remuneration Report to a vote of shareholders.
In accordance are to be, paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing shareholders.
The with the Regulations, the approval of the Remuneration Report is proposed as an Articles allow shareholders to authorise directors, for a period up to five years, to allot Ordinary Resolution.
a relevant securities generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders and b equity securities for cash other than in connection with a rights issue up to an amount The 2008 Vodafone Remuneration Policy was adopted last year after a full review by specified by the shareholders and free of the restrictions in Section 89.
In accordance the Remuneration Committee of the existing remuneration policy and the elements with institutional investor guidelines, the amount of equity securities to be issued for of pay.
As a result of this years review, the Remuneration Committee has concluded cash other than in connection with a rights issue is restricted to 5% of the existing that the 2008 Vodafone Remuneration Policy remains appropriate.
The key principles issued ordinary share capital.
The Company has not issued any of its equity securities of the policy are as follows: for cash in the last three years.
Total remuneration will be benchmarked against a relevant, focused group of companies.
Resolution 21 is conditional on Resolution 20 having been passed and will be An appropriate level of remuneration will be paid for managing the business in line proposed as a Special Resolution.
There will be the opportunity for significant reward only if truly exceptional Paragraph 21.1 of Resolution 21 authorises the directors to allot up to 2,890,329,462 performance is delivered.
ordinary shares for cash, equivalent to 5% of the ordinary share capital of the A high percentage of total pay will be delivered through performance Company in issue at 22 May 2009, without first being required to offer them to linked shares.
existing shareholders for the period ending on the earlier of 30 September 2010 or Performance measures will be aligned with the Companys strategy and to the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010. shareholder objectives.
The existing share ownership requirements are reinforced to provide further Paragraph 21.2 of Resolution 21 authorises the directors to allot new shares, or sell alignment with shareholders.
treasury shares, for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is The Remuneration Committee continues to monitor how well incentive awards in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The Board considers the authority in made in previous years align with the Companys performance and is confident that Resolution 21 to be appropriate in order to allow the Company flexibility to finance there is a strong link between performance and reward.
business opportunities or to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
Resolutions 18 and 19 Auditors The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which of Principles not to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis other than pursuant to a accounts are presented, to hold office until the end of the next such meeting.
rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total Resolution 18, which is recommended by the Audit Committee, proposes the issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling 3-year period without re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Resolution 19 prior consultation with shareholders.
follows best practice in corporate governance by separately seeking authority for the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 22 Approval of Market Purchases of Ordinary Shares In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its Resolution 20 Authority to Allot Shares own shares.
Resolution 22, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, approves Under Section 80 of the 1985 Act, directors are, with certain exceptions, unable to the purchase by the Company of up to 5,200,000,000 ordinary shares at a price not allot relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in a general exceeding the higher of 1 5% above the average closing price of such shares for the meeting.
Relevant securities as defined in the 1985 Act include the Companys five business days on the London Stock Exchange prior to the date of purchase and ordinary shares or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares.
2 the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
8 Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Similar resolutions have been approved by shareholders at previous Annual General Shareholders will continue to receive tax vouchers in respect of dividend payments.
Since the date of the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Company has bought back 593,985,978 of its own shares.
The Company takes data security issues very seriously.
Required bank account details supplied to the Company and its registrars will be used only for dividend While the Board currently has no plans for further share purchases, it wishes to retain distribution and the information will not be used for any other purpose or supplied to the flexibility provided by Resolution 22.
Should any share purchases be made, any third party.
pursuant to Resolution 22, it is intended that the shares would be held in treasury, subject to any limit imposed by law.
In future, to the extent that such limit is exceeded, A copy of the Articles marked to show all the changes being proposed in Resolution treasury shares will be cancelled.
23 is available for inspection as set out in Notes 4 and 5 on page 7 of this document.
No dividends are paid on and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
Any Resolution 24 Notice of general meetings treasury shares sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares Resolution 24 is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of which, if Resolution 21 is passed, may be issued without first offering them to the EU Shareholder Rights Directive the Directive.
The Regulations implementing existing shareholders.
the Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless certain requirements are satisfied.
The Company is currently able to As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at the Annual General call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days Meeting on 28 July 2009, purchases after that date are subject to renewed notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board will use this authority 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at notice.
The approval will be effective until the the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010, and thereafter, authority will position of the Company.
The Board will only purchase such shares after taking into be sought on an annual basis.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements account the effects on earnings per share excluding items not related to underlying for electronic voting under the Directive in order to be able to call a general meeting business performance and the benefit for shareholders.
Resolution 22 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired and Your directors are recommending that shareholders vote FOR Resolutions the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought.
1 to 24 as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
The total number of warrants and options to subscribe for shares issued by the Company outstanding at 22 May 2009 was 315,759,165.
This represents 0.60% of the issued share capital at that date excluding treasury shares.
If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this Resolution, then the total number of warrants and options to subscribe for shares issued by the Company outstanding at 22 May 2009 would represent 0.67% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 23 Articles of Association Resolution 23 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
In order to further the Companys desire to improve the security of dividend payments to shareholders and reduce costs, the Company proposes that after payment of the final dividend in August 2009, it will pay future dividend payments on its ordinary shares by direct credit into a nominated bank or building society account or, alternatively, into the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
That is, the Company will no longer pay dividends by cheque and in February 2010 payment will only be by direct credit or via the DRIP.
Direct crediting is a more secure and convenient way to receive dividend payments.
Some 120,000 of the Companys shareholders have already provided their bank or building society account details to enable the Company to pay their dividends in this way.
Dividend payments by direct credit offer a number of benefits: Dividends are credited to the shareholders account on the payment date as cleared funds, which allows immediate access to these funds: It removes the risk of loss, fraud or theft of dividend payment cheques: It will generate savings for the Company, which benefits all shareholders, because paying by direct credit is less expensive than using cheques and eliminates the cost of issuing replacement payments for those cheques that go missing: and The Company has committed to reduce its CO emissions by 50% by 2020 and 2 anticipates that this change will contribute to the Companys overall effort to reduce its impact on the environment, which benefits all of us.
Although the Companys Articles permit the payment of dividends by electronic means, the directors propose certain amendments to the Companys Articles in order to facilitate the change of payment method.
The proposed new Articles 130 and 132 give the Company flexibility regarding payment methods of dividends and other amounts and provide that amounts due to shareholders who provide no, or invalid, account details may be held in a non-interest bearing account in the Companys name until such shareholder nominates a valid account.
Vodafone Group Plc 9 Remuneration Remuneration package Dear Shareholder The executive directors packages are benchmarked by reference to total data for the Last year saw a change in the executive directors remuneration package.
The base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive levels combined.
The principal package put greater focus on two key criteria: shareholder alignment and link to the comparator group is made up of 28 top European companies excluding any in the business strategy.
When undertaking the benchmarking process the Remuneration Committee makes the assumption that individuals will invest their The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the changes made are particularly own money into the long-term incentive plan.
appropriate in light of the current economic circumstances and this year the Committee has decided not to make any changes to the reward packages for the The Committee remains satisfied that the structure is aligned to shareholder value executive directors.
As such the 2010 remuneration structure is unchanged from and is appropriately linked to business strategy.
In light of this and the external 2009 and the Committee has decided not to increase the base salaries for the current market, the Committee determined that the overall structure of the package should executive directors in the July 2009 review.
remain unchanged for the 2010 financial year changes to the individual elements of the package are set out below.
As well as considering the current package, the Committee continues to monitor how well incentive awards made in previous years align with the Companys performance.
In this regard, the Committee is confident that there is a strong link between Elements Summary performance and reward.
Base salary Base salaries are set annually in July.
Annual bonus The target bonus is 100% of base salary and the maximum The Committee has appreciated the dialogue and feedback from investors over each is 200% of base salary.
The performance is assessed against of the past three years and will continue to take an active interest in their views and key financial measures.
the voting on the Remuneration Report.
As such, it hopes to receive your support at the AGM on 28 July 2009.
Long-term Long-term awards are made annually in July.
The award incentive plan is made entirely of performance shares.
Vesting depends on both free cash flow and relative Total Shareholder Return measures.
Investment Executive directors may purchase Vodafone shares and Luc Vandevelde opportunity hold them in Trust for three years to receive additional Chairman of the Remuneration Committee performance shares.
This is designed to support the share 19 May 2009 ownership requirements.
He was available for consultation during this period, over which Arun received a nominal base salary of 1 and no bonus or new GLTI grant in July 2008.
On retirement, Aruns long-term incentive awards vested on a pro-rated basis for both time and performance.
Arun also had a contractual entitlement to 500,000 in connection with relocation to the US.
Incentive Plan awards during the 2009 financial year In addition, the executive directors received the following long-term incentive awards in July 2008.
The shares awarded are the maximum number that may vest under the plan.
The actual number will depend on a cumulative three year adjusted free cash flow performance measure and a three year relative Total Shareholder Return measure.
GLTI Performance Shares Number Value of Number of GLTI award of shares performance at date co-invested shares of grant and held awarded 000 in Trust Vittorio Colao CEO 7,127,741 9,262 866,086 Andy Halford CFO 4,357,399 5,662 565,703 Non-executive directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2009 The Chairman, Sir John Bond received fees of 575,000 in the 2009 financial year, compared with 560,000 in the 2008 financial year.
The total non-executive directors fees were 1,673,000 in the 2009 financial year versus 1,750,000 in the 2008 financial year.
The Chairmans fees and the non-executive directors fees were reviewed as at 1 April 2009.
It was decided that there would be no increases for the 2010 financial year.
Beneficial interests The table below summarises the interests that each of the Chairman and executive directors hold in the Company.
31 March 2009 1 April 2008 Sir John Bond Chairman 237,345 224,926 Vittorio Colao Chief Executive Officer 1,046,149 180,063 Andy Halford Chief Financial Officer 1,211,095 781,826 The other non-executive directors held an aggregate of 756,241 shares at the end of the year.
No director held less than 28,936 shares at 31 March 2009.
10 Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Further Shareholder Information Shareholder attendance, enquiries Please also refer to Note 7 on page 7 of this document for further information on the position of corporate representatives at the Annual General Meeting.
and information Registrars Shareholder enquiries If you can attend The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: You will find it helpful to bring this booklet with you to the Annual General Meeting, so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, England.
A map and directions to the meeting venue can be found on the back cover of this Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 or booklet.
On arrival, you should go to the shareholder registration desks in the foyer.
Fax: 44 0 870 703 6116 or Attached to the Form of Proxy enclosed with this booklet is an Admission Card.
co. uk contactus greatly assist in the registration formalities if you could bring your Admission Card to the meeting.
Holders of ordinary shares who are resident in Ireland can contact the Companys Registrars directly at Computershare Investor Services Ireland Tea and coffee will be available from 10.00 a. m. Limited, P. O.
Telephone: 0818 300999 or via email at www.
co. uk contactus For your personal safety and security, there may be checks and bag searches of those attending the meeting.
It is recommended that you arrive a little early to allow time Any queries about the Annual General Meeting, the administration of holdings of for these procedures.
Recording equipment, cameras and other items that might ordinary shares, such as change of address including email address, change of interfere with the good order of the meeting will not be permitted in the venue.
ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the Companys Registrars at the relevant address, telephone number or email address immediately above.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting.
In the refreshment room the Pickwick Suite, before and after Manage your shareholding online the meeting, there will be a designated Customer Service area for shareholders who Holders of ordinary shares may also view and update details of their shareholding have questions which relate to them as customers.
In addition, there will be a and dividend payment instructions, subject to passing an identity check, on the Shareholder Helpdesk to deal with any administrative enquiries that you may have Registrars web site at www.
You will need your 11 digit regarding your shareholding.
Shareholder Reference Number which starts with the letter C or G and is printed on your Form of Proxy.
If you cannot attend The Annual General Meeting will be webcast live on the Companys website Electronic addresses www.
com agm and subsequently a recording will be available on the Electronic addresses provided in this Notice of Annual General Meeting and the Form website.
For information on how to view the webcast, visit the website at any time of Proxy are provided only for those purposes expressly stated.
from the date of this Notice.
Annual Report In order to vote your shares on the Resolutions, you need to register your Proxy Following the implementation of the new online format for the presentation of the appointment and instructions, which you can do in a number of ways, detailed Companys 2008 Annual Report, the Companys 2009 Annual Report will again be below.
You are encouraged to choose electronic or telephone Proxy appointment made available online at www.
com investor in a similar format.
and its individual sections, will also be available as PDFs for download and printing.
The methods available are: by visiting our website, www.
com agm and following the Voting link.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder Reference Number SRN and PIN to hand.
These are shown on the enclosed Form of Proxy: by telephoning the dedicated Vodafone Proxy Voting Helpline.
Please see note 9 on the reverse of the enclosed Form of Proxy for details: by completing, dating and signing the enclosed Form of Proxy and returning it in the enclosed addressed envelope: or by submitting a CREST message, if you are a CREST member.
Please see note 10 on the enclosed Form of Proxy for details.
All Proxy appointments and instructions, by whichever method you choose, must be received by our Registrars by not later than 11.00 a. m. on Sunday, 26 July 2009.
If you appoint a Proxy, this will not prevent you from attending the Annual General Meeting in person, should you choose to do so.
Proxies and Corporate Representatives A shareholder that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person and must therefore appoint someone to represent it.
Company law provides for two alternative methods by which this can be done: the appointment of a proxy described above or a corporate representative.
Shareholders considering the appointment of a corporate representative are recommended to check their legal position and also view the Companys Articles of Association available on www.
Corporate representatives seeking to attend the Annual General Meeting are recommended to pre-register with the Registrars and then arrive at the registration desks in good time before the start of the meeting, particularly if representing a number of different holdings.
Typically, this might need to be at least 30 minutes before the start of the meeting.
Vodafone Group Plc 11 Read the Vodafone Group Annual Report Online The Vodafone Group Annual Report will again be available as a fully interactive version.
The online report has been designed to provide greater accessibility and ease of use, and has a number of benefits including: Video content, including an introduction from the Chairman, Sir John Bond Interactive maps and graphics The ability to select individual pages to print or to email The facility to search all areas of the report The opportunity for users to provide feedback The report and its individual sections continue to be available as PDFs for download and printing.
For more information, visit: www.
com investor 12 Vodafone Group Plc 2009 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Disclaimers This document includes measures which have been derived from amounts calculated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS but are not themselves IFRS measures.
Vodafone believes that these measures are useful and necessary to report as they are used by Vodafone for internal performance analysis and they facilitate comparability with other companies, although Vodafones measures may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
These measures should not be viewed as replacements for, but rather as complementary to the comparable GAAP measures.
Further information can be found under Additional Information Non-GAAP Information in Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2009, which is available at www.
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the Groups financial condition, results of operations and businesses and certain of the Groups plans and objectives.
In particular, such forward-looking statements include statements with respect to expectations regarding the Groups financial condition or results of operations contained within the Chief Executives statement on pages 4 to 5 of this document, and expectations for the Groups future performance generally: expectations regarding the operating environment and market conditions and trends, including customer mix and usage, competitive pressures and price trends: intentions and expectations regarding the development and launch of products, services and technologies introduced by Vodafone or by Vodafone in conjunction with third parties: anticipated benefits to the Group from cost reduction or efficiency programmes, including the 1 billion cost reduction programme: growth in customers and usage: growth in emerging markets, especially India, Turkey and Africa: expectations regarding revenue, adjusted operating profit, EBITDA margins, capital expenditure, free cash flow, costs and foreign exchange rates: expectations regarding capital intensity: expected benefits associated with the merger of Vodafone Australia with Hutchison 3G Australia: and expectations regarding the integration or performance of current and future investments, associates, joint ventures and newly acquired businesses.
The factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates and changes to the associated legal, regulatory and tax environments: increased competition, from both existing competitors and new market entrants, including Mobile Virtual Network Operators: levels of investment in network capacity and the Groups ability to deploy new technologies, products and services in a timely manner, particularly data content and services: rapid changes to existing products and services and the inability of new products and services to perform in accordance with the Groups expectations, including as a result of third party or vendor marketing efforts: the ability of the Group to integrate new technologies, products and services with existing networks, technologies, products and services: the Groups ability to generate and grow revenue from both voice and non-voice services and achieve expected cost savings: a lower than expected impact of new or existing products, services or technologies on the Groups future revenue, cost structure and capital expenditure outlays: slower than expected customer growth, reduced customer retention, reductions or changes in customer spending and increased pricing pressure: the Groups ability to expand its spectrum position, win 3G allocations and realise expected synergies and benefits associated with 3G: the Groups ability to secure the timely delivery of high quality, reliable handsets, network equipment and other key products from suppliers: loss of suppliers, disruption of supply chains and greater than anticipated prices of new mobile handsets: changes in the costs to the Group of, or the rates the Group may charge for, terminations and roaming minutes: the Groups ability to realise expected benefits from acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, franchises, brand licences or other arrangements with third parties, particularly those related to the development of data and internet services: acquisitions and divestments of Group businesses and assets and the pursuit of new, unexpected strategic opportunities which may have a negative impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations: the Groups ability to integrate acquired business or assets and the imposition of any unfavourable conditions, regulatory or otherwise, on any pending or future acquisitions or dispositions: the extent of any future write-downs or impairment charges on the Groups assets, or restructuring charges incurred as a result of an acquisition or disposition: developments in the Groups financial condition, earnings and distributable funds and other factors that the Board of Directors takes into account in determining the level of dividends: the Groups ability to satisfy working capital requirements through borrowing in capital markets, bank facilities and operations: changes in exchange rates, including particularly the exchange rate of pounds sterling to the euro and the US dollar: changes in the regulatory framework in which the Group operates, including the commencement of legal or regulatory action seeking to regulate the Groups permitted charging rates: the impact of legal or other proceedings against the Group or other companies in the mobile communications industry: and changes in statutory tax rates and profit mix, the Groups ability to resolve open tax issues and the timing and amount of any payments in respect of tax liabilities.
Additional factors can be found under Performance Principal Risk Factors and Uncertainties in Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2009 which is available at www.
All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or any member of the Group or any persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this document will be realised.
Subject to compliance with applicable law and regulations, Vodafone does not intend to update these forward-looking statements and does not undertake any obligation to do so.
Vodafone Group Plc 13 G T. S. M MARSHAM STREET MILLBANK WHITEHALL I T H S WATERLOO BR ST. JAMES-S ST T SPUR ROAD VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD BELGRAVE ROAD WESTMINSTER BR.
GEORGE ST WESTMINSTER BRIDGE HORSEFERRY ROAD Directions to the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre is located on the opposite side of Parliament Square from Westminster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament.
The nearest London Underground station is Westminster Circle, District and Jubilee lines.
Vodafone Group Plc Registered office: Vodafone House The Connection Newbury Berkshire RG14 2FN England Registered in England No.
com TOTHILL ST. GREA T PETER STREET BIRDCAGE WALK VICTORIA LAMBETH BRIDGE BROAD SANCTUARY STREET PALL MALL THE MALL PALACE PICCADILL Y YORK ROAD PALACE ROAD LAMBETH EMBANKMENT MILLBANK VICTORIA EMBANKMENT BROADWAY ROAD STOREYS GA.
