Financials Audit report on the consolidated financial statements Report of independent registered public accounting firm We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient to the members of Vodafone Group Plc evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material which comprise the consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2009 and 2008, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, the opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for each of the three the consolidated financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration years in the period ended 31 March 2009 and the related notes numbered 1 to 39. report to be audited.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors Opinions remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
UK opinion In our opinion: We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2009. the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance remuneration report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the consolidated Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance financial statements.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting give a true and fair view, whether the consolidated financial statements have been Standards Board.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information its profit for the year then ended.
given in the directors report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
US opinion In addition, we report to you if we have not received all the information and In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at 31 March 2009 and 2008 directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three not disclosed.
years in the period ended 31 March 2009 in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Accounting Oversight Board United States, the effectiveness of the Groups internal not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement on internal control over financial reporting as at 31 March 2009, based on the criteria established control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Our report including our opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting is set out on We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the page 70. contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Basis of audit opinion London We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK United Kingdom and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the 19 May 2009 Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 73
