Ourbusinesses   Otherinformation Audit opinion parent Company financial statements  Opinion Internationalplc In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of We have audited the accompanying parent Company financial the financial position of the parent Company as of 31 December statements of Charter International plc which comprise the balance 2009, and of the financial performance of the parent Company for sheet as of 31 December 2009 and the income statement, for the the year then ended in accordance with UK Accounting Standards year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and have been and other explanatory notes.
We have also audited the information properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having Companies Jersey Law 1991. been audited, in accordance with the Listing Rules.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only Directors responsibility for the financial statements for the Companys members as a body in accordance with The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other presentation of these financial statements in accordance with UK purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Practice and with the requirements of Jersey law.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
 Auditors responsibility Chartered Accountants Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial London statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in 23 March 2010 accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Those Standards Notes: require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and a The maintenance and integrity of the Charter International website is perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors financial statements are free from material misstatement.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the Auditors judgement, b Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Business and financial review, the Corporate governance statement and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 111
