Ourbusinesses   Otherinformation Principal interests in Group undertakings Group  interestin Subsidiary undertakings Countryof equitycapital incorporation percent Natureofbusiness Welding, cutting and automation Europe ESAB AB Sweden 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Vamberk s. r. o. Czech Republic 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB GmbH Germany 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting Systems GmbH Germany 100 Oxyfuel, plasma, laser and water jet cutting ESAB Mor Kft Hungary 100 Welding consumables ESAB Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100 Welding consumables ESAB Saldatura S. p. A. Italy 100 Welding consumables and equipment OOO ESAB Russia 100 Welding consumables and equipment Zao ESAB Svel Russia 51 Welding consumables NorthAmerica iii USA 100 Welding consumables and equipment The ESAB Group Inc. SouthAmerica ESAB Industria e Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Welding consumables and equipment Eutectic do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100 Welding consumables and equipment Conarco Alambres y Soldaduras S. A. Argentina 100 Welding consumables and equipment China ESAB Welding and Cutting Products Shanghai Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Welding Products Jiangsu Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting and Welding Automation Shanghai Co Limited China 100 Cutting and automation ESAB Welding Products Weihai Co Limited China 100 Welding consumables AsiaPacific ESAB Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore 100 Welding consumables and equipment Romar Positioning Equipment International Pte Limited Singapore 100 Welding equipment iv HD Engineering Limited Hong Kong 100 Drilling machines, components and accessories ESAB India Limited India 56 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Engineering Services Limited India 89 Research and development UnitedArabEmirates ESAB Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates 100 Welding consumables and equipment Air and gas handling Europe Howden UK Limited Northern Ireland 100 Power, industrial fans and heat exchangers Howden France France 100 Industrial fans Howden BC Compressors France 100 Piston and diaphragm compressors Howden Netherlands BV Netherlands 100 Industrial fans Howden Turbowerke GmbH Germany 100 Industrial fans Howden Ventilatoren GmbH Germany 100 Power and industrial fans Howden Denmark A S Denmark 100 Power and industrial fans Howden Spain SL Spain 100 Heat exchangers Howden Compressors Limited Scotland 100 Screw compressors James Howden & Company Limited trading as Howden Process Compressors Scotland 100 Screw compressor packages and blowers NorthAmerica iii Howden Buffalo Inc. USA 100 Power and industrial fans SouthAmerica Howden South America Ventiladores e Compressores Industria e Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Industrial fans and heat exchangers Aeolus Industria e Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Industrial fans AsiaPacific Howden Hua Engineering Co Limited China 70 Power and industrial fans, heat exchangers, compressors & blowers Howden Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 Power and industrial fans and heat exchangers SouthAfrica Howden Africa Holdings Limited South Africa 55 Power and industrial fans, heat exchangers, gas cleaning equipment, pumps and cooling systems  v ESAB SeAH Corporation South Korea 50 Welding consumables i The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
ii The Group undertakings above are all held by subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
iii The ESAB Group Inc. and Howden Buffalo Inc. are both whollyowned subsidiaries of Anderson Group Inc. the holding company of the Groups North America businesses.
iv HD Engineering Limited was sold on 13 May 2009. v ESAB SeAH Corporation has only one class of capital.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 109
