104 Glossary of Terms The British Land Company PLC Glossary of Terms Annualised rents are gross rents as at the reporting date plus, where rent reviews Occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of let units expressed as a percentage are outstanding, any increases to applicable estimated rental value as determined of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
by the Groups external Valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
Open A1 is a planning consent enabling the sale of a wide range of goods, including food, Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a project to fashion, footwear, books, electronics and household goods as set out in The Town and completion, excluding site values and finance costs.
Country Planning Use Classes Order 1987.
EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association.
Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head leases.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment property revaluations Planning consent gives consent for a development, and covers matters such as use and and gains losses on disposals, intangible asset movements and their related taxation.
Full details of the development scheme must be provided in an application for full planning consent, including detailed design, external appearance and landscaping before EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets excluding the mark to a project can proceed.
Outline planning consent establishes the broad outline of the market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt adjustments, deferred taxation scheme and is subject to the later approval of the details of the design.
on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
Property Income Distribution PID As a REIT the Group is obliged to distribute 90% of the tax exempt profits.
These dividends, which are referred to as PIDs, are subject to EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted number of shares at the period end.
withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax.
Certain classes of shareholders may qualify to receive the dividend gross.
EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives The Group can also make other normal nonPID dividend payments which are taxed and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Estimated rental value ERV is the external Valuers opinion as to the open market rent, Real Estate Investment Trust REIT A listed property company which qualifies for and which on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new has elected into a tax regime, which exempts qualifying UK property rental income and letting or rent review of a property.
gains on investment property disposals from corporation tax.
Equivalent yield is the net weighted average income return a property will produce based Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the external Valuers, where the passing rent upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent is below the estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of yields as determined by the external Valuers assume rent received annually in arrears vacant space and expiry of rent-free periods.
and on values before deducting prospective purchasers costs.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and excludes its share of reaches the estimated rental value.
Tenant or lease incentives are any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Typically the incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
Under accounting rules the value of lease incentives given to tenants is Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed as a amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis to the earliest lease percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered by underlying profit Total return is the growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends paid expressed as a before net interest payable and taxation.
percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd which produces an independent benchmark Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, of property returns.
assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Like-for-like ERV growth is the change in ERV over a period on the standing investment Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of underlying profit after tax divided by properties expressed as a percentage of the ERV at the start of the period.
the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in gross rental income on properties Underlying profit before tax is the profit for the period before taxation after excluding owned throughout the current and previous periods under review.
This growth rate amortisation of intangible assets and impairment charges, net valuation gains losses includes revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but excludes properties including profits losses on disposals, other receivables of a capital nature, net held for development in either period, properties with guaranteed rent reviews, asset refinancing charges and swap close out costs.
management determinations and surrender premiums.
Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage Loan to Value LTV is the ratio of gross debt less cash and short term deposits to the of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
aggregate value of properties and investments.
Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure for a period up to 999 years.
Mark to market is the difference between the book value of an asset or liability and its A peppercorn, or nominal, rental is paid annually.
Weighted average debt maturity Each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the Market Value in relation to property assets is the estimated amount for which a property remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group debt in issue should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in at the period end.
an arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion as determined by the Groups Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative costs per annum external Valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external Valuers report at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty land tax, agent and legal fees.
Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed assuming all break Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment of ground clauses are exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
Excludes short term licences and rents and net property outgoings.
Net rental income will differ from annualised net rents residential leases.
and passing rent due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net property outgoings and accounting adjustments for fixed and minimum contracted rent reviews and lease Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in basis points in the equivalent yield of a incentives.
Contents Overview Governance 1 Foreword 54 Valuation Report 2 Corporate Strategy 56 Directors and Officers Financial Summary 57 Corporate Governance 3 At a Glance 62 Remuneration Report 6 Chairmans Statement 72 Report of the Directors 8 Chief Executives Report Financial Statements Business Review 74 Consolidated Income Statement 12 British Lands Activity in 2008 9 75 Consolidated Balance Sheet 13 Sector and Asset Selection 76 Consolidated Statement of 15 Asset Management Recognised Income and Expense 18 Development 77 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 22 Portfolio Valuation 78 Notes to the Accounts 24 Property Sectoral Outlook 79 Performance Measures Retail Sector 81 Staff Costs 26 Office Sector 83 Property 30 Financial Performance 84 Funds and Joint Ventures 33 Financing and Cash Flow 87 Net Debt Financing Policy 91 Dividend 36 Key Performance Indicators 95 Report of the Auditors Risk Management 96 Table A Summary Income Statement 38 Partnerships and Balance Sheet based on 40 People Proportional Consolidation Corporate Responsibility 98 Company Balance Sheet and Notes Head Office and Registered Office Business Review 101 Ten Year Record York House Directors Responsibility Statement 45 Seymour Street Other Information London W1H 7LX Portfolio Description Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 102 Financial Calendar Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 42 Out-of-Town Retail 103 Shareholder Information www.
com Retail Warehouses 104 Glossary of Terms info@britishland.
com 43 Superstores 44 Meadowhall Designed by CDT Design 45 In-Town Retail Theme photography by Alan Thornton 46 London Offices Portraits by Ben Rice Broadgate Copywriting by Tim Shackleton 48 Regents Place Printed by Fulmar Colour 50 Developments Cover and pages 156: printed on HannoArt Silk, pages 57104: printed on Challenger Offset, both comprise fibres sourced from well-managed forests, incorporating FSC certified fibre and bleached without the use of chlorine.
The production mill for this paper operates to EMAS, ISO 14001 environmental and ISO 9001 quality standards.
Cover: 201 Bishopsgate and Broadgate Tower.
We work closely with our architects to ensure our development projects are well designed and as efficient as possible, and we take care to maintain them in optimum condition.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Taking care of business Annual Report & Accounts 2009
