78 Notes to the Accounts The British Land Company PLC Notes to the Accounts 1 Basis of preparation The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 have been prepared on the Goodwill historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, investments and derivatives.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore associate or jointly controlled entity at the time of acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed for comply with Article 4 of EU IAS Regulation.
impairment on an annual basis.
These accounting policies have been applied consistently in all material respects.
Financial assets and liabilities The accounting policies used are consistent with those contained in the Groups last Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2008, with the exception of the measured at amortised cost and discounted as appropriate.
adoption of IFRIC 14: IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding Other investments are shown at fair value and held as available for sale.
Gains requirements and their interaction.
This change has no impact on the Groups net assets and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the or profits before tax and the comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis.
investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative Standards and guidelines not effective for the current accounting period were: IAS 1 gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the Revised Presentation of Financial Statements: IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs: IFRS 3 period.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement are not subsequently Revised Business Combinations: and amendments to: IAS 16 Property, Plant and reversed through the income statement.
Equipment: IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: IAS 31 Interests in Where an investment property is held under a head lease it is initially recognised as Joint Ventures: IAS 40 Investment Property: IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation: an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial ground rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included Instruments: Disclosures: IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment.
in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
With the exception of the amendments to IAS 40 and IAS 16, these pronouncements, Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Finance charges including when applied, are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements, but premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are spread over the will result in changes to presentation or disclosure.
The effect of the amendments to IAS period to redemption, using the effective interest method.
40 and IAS 16 is to bring property under construction or development for future use as an As defined by IAS 39, cash flow and fair value hedges are carried at fair value in the investment property within the scope of IAS 40, whereas previously it had been within the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as scope of IAS 16.
This will result in all changes in fair value being recognised in the income effective cash flow hedges are recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Changes in the statement rather than in equity.
This will affect profits before tax, but not net assets.
There fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective fair value hedges are will be no effect on underlying profits before tax.
recorded in the income statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged Critical accounting judgements are disclosed in the relevant section of the Annual item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the Report, see page 32.
The key source of estimation and uncertainty relates to the valuation income statement.
of the property portfolio and investments, where an external valuation is obtained.
Other Cash equivalents are limited to instruments with a maturity of less than three months.
less significant assumptions include the actuarial assumptions used in calculating the Net rental income Groups retirement benefit obligations, the valuation of fixed rate debt and interest rate Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A rent adjustment based on open derivatives, and the share-based payment expense.
The potential for management to market estimated rental value is recognised from the rent review date in relation to make judgements or estimates relating to these that would have a significant impact on unsettled rent reviews.
Where a rent-free period is included in a lease, the rental income the financial statements is considered, by the nature of Group business, to be limited.
foregone is allocated evenly over the period from the date of lease commencement to Going concern the earliest termination date.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Rental income from fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews is recognised on Corporate Governance section on page 60. a straight-line basis over the shorter of the entire lease term or the period to the first Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds break option.
Where such rental income is recognised ahead of the related cash flow, The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land Company PLC and all an adjustment is made to ensure the carrying value of the related property including subsidiaries entities controlled by British Land.
Control is assumed where British Land the accrued rent does not exceed the external valuation.
Initial direct costs incurred has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to in negotiating and arranging a new lease are amortised on a straight-line basis over gain benefits from its activities.
the period from the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired or disposed of during Where a lease incentive payment, including surrender premiums paid, does not the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of enhance the value of a property, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period disposal.
Accounting practices of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which differ from the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
Upon receipt of from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
a surrender premium for the early determination of a lease, the profit, net of dilapidations Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method.
Any excess and non-recoverable outgoings relating to the lease concerned is immediately reflected of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the assets, liabilities in income.
and contingent liabilities acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as Management and performance fees goodwill.
Any discount received is credited to the income statement in the period of Management and performance fees receivable are recognised in the period to which they acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated relate, except for performance fee retentions subject to clawback, which are recognised on consolidation.
over the clawback performance period.
In assessing the risk of clawback, account is taken Joint ventures and associates, including funds, are accounted for under the equity of the unpredictability of future relative performance against the benchmark.
method, whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups share of Taxation the net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The consolidated income statement Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates that incorporates the Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
Their have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that Properties are not taxable or tax deductible.
Properties are externally valued on an open market basis at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on items that may become taxable at a later date, on the Investment and development properties are recorded at valuation.
difference between the balance sheet value and tax base value, on an undiscounted Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties or investment basis.
On business combinations, the deferred tax effect of fair value adjustments is properties being redeveloped is recognised in the income statement.
incorporated in the consolidated balance sheet.
Valuation surpluses arising on other development properties, those not previously Employee costs classified as investment properties, are reflected in the statement of recognised income The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at and expense, unless a deficit reduces the value below cost, in which case the deficit is the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on charged to the income statement.
The cost of properties in the course of development includes attributable interest the Groups estimate of shares or options that will eventually vest.
In the case of options and other associated outgoings.
Interest is calculated on the development expenditure granted, fair value is measured by a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Compensation linked by reference to specific borrowings where relevant and otherwise on the average to performance fees accrued by the Group is amortised over the vesting period.
rate applicable to short-term loans.
Interest is not capitalised where no development Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fair values: pension activity is taking place.
A property ceases to be treated as a development property on scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit method and discounted practical completion.
at the rate of return of a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term to the scheme Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses arising are recognised liabilities.
The net surplus or deficit is recognised in full in the consolidated balance sheet.
through the income statement, the profit on disposal is determined as the difference Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past service costs plus the present between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
of the accounting period plus additions in the period.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments are In determining whether leases and related properties represent operating or finance charged to operating profit.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement if leases, consideration is given to whether the tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards the benefits have vested or, if they have not vested, are amortised on a straight-line basis of ownership.
over the period until vesting occurs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Intangible assets period in which they occur and are presented in the consolidated statement of recognised Intangible assets, such as fund management contracts, acquired through business income and expense.
combinations, are measured initially at fair value and are amortised on a straight-line Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed on the basis basis over their estimated useful lives, and are subject to regular reviews for impairment.
of the contracted annual contribution.
