Group financial statements International Accounting Standard 1 requires Statement that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups and companys financial position, financial performance of directors and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance responsibilities with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair Directors responsibilities presentation also requires the directors to: The directors are responsible for keeping consistently select and apply appropriate adequate accounting records that are accounting policies: sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable present information, including accounting accuracy at any time the financial position policies, in a manner that provides relevant, of the company, for safeguarding the assets reliable, comparable and understandable of the company, for taking reasonable steps information: and for the prevention and detection of fraud and provide additional disclosures when other irregularities and for the preparation of compliance with the specific requirements a directors report and directors remuneration in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users report which comply with the requirements to understand the impact of particular of the Companies Act 2006. transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and The directors are responsible for preparing financial performance.
the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act The directors confirm to the best of their 2006.
The directors are also required to knowledge that: prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial they have complied with the above Reporting Standards, as adopted by the requirements in preparing the financial European Union IFRSs and Article 4 of the statements which give a true and fair view IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen of the assets, liabilities, financial position to prepare financial statements for the and profit or loss of the company and the company in accordance with IFRSs.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Financial statements are published on the groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the groups website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
On behalf of the board J. D. Burns, Chief executive officer D. M. A. Wisniewski, Finance director 17th March 2010 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 47 Governance
