List of definitions Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Ground rent Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares The rent payable by the group for its leasehold properties.
Under in issue at the balance sheet date.
IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the cost allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
Adjusted net asset value per share NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on the property revaluation Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment surplus and fair value adjustments to the carrying value of assets Method BREEAM and liabilities.
The BREEAM rating assesses the operational and the embodied environmental impacts of individual buildings.
The ratings are Pass, European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes leading property companies, investors and consultants which strives to IPD Central London Offices Index establish best practices in accounting, reporting and corporate An index, compiled by Investment Property Databank Limited, of the governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
central and inner London offices in their quarterly valued universe.
Recurring net property income Capital return Net property income excluding development income.
The annual valuation movement arising on the groups portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation at the beginning Recurring profit before taxation of the year adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
Profit before tax excluding development income, the revaluation movement in investment properties and financial instruments and Total return the profit on disposal of investment properties.
The movement in adjusted net asset value per share between the beginning and the end of each financial year plus the dividend per Adjusted recurring profit before taxation share paid during the year, expressed as a percentage of the Recurring profit before taxation adjusted for items which are unlikely adjusted net asset value per share at the beginning of the year.
to be repeated to the same level in the future, and are excluded to show the underlying trend.
Total property return The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, plus the Earnings per share EPS net annual rental income received, expressed as a percentage of Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the capital employed property value at the beginning of the year plus weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the capital expenditure.
Total shareholder return Recurring earnings per share The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Earnings per share adjusted to exclude the after tax effect of Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period, expressed non-recurring items, profits or losses on sales of properties and as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
investments, and the fair value adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities.
Rent roll The annualised contracted rental income, net of ground rents.
Diluted earnings per share Earnings per share adjusted to include the dilutive effects of potential Initial yield shares issuable under the groups share option schemes.
However, The rent roll generated by a property or by the portfolio as a whole a loss per share cannot be reduced by dilution in accordance with expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Where applicable, the IAS 33, Earnings per Share.
valuation is adjusted to include any capital expenditure required for scheme completion.
Property income distribution PID Dividends from profits of the groups tax-exempt property rental True equivalent yield business under the REIT regulations.
The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers estimated Non PID rental value and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to Dividends from profits of the groups taxable residual business.
the valuation having taken into account notional purchasers costs.
Net debt Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Borrowings plus bank overdraft and loans less cash and Reversionary yield cash equivalents.
The anticipated yield based upon the valuers estimated rental value Balance sheet gearing of a property or portfolio, expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Net debt divided by net assets.
Where applicable, the valuation is adjusted to include any capital expenditure required for scheme completion.
Profit and loss gearing Interest cover ratio ICR Gross property income, excluding surrender premiums, less Reversion ground rent divided by interest payable on borrowings less interest The reversion is the difference between the rent roll of a property or receivable.
This is similar to the groups most commonly used interest portfolio and the rental value as estimated by the groups external cover ratio covenant.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of vacant space.
Property gearing Loan-to-value ratio LTV The nominal value of borrowed funds divided by the fair value Underlying portfolio of investment property.
This is equivalent to the loan-to-value Properties that have been held for the whole of the financial year.
calculations used in the groups bank covenants.
Vacancy rate The rental value of vacant space in a property or portfolio, that is immediately available for occupation, expressed as a percentage of the estimated rental value.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 108 Appendices Who we are 1 Performance 24 Overview 2 Property review Our principal objective 3 Valuation 26 Financial At a glance 4 Portfolio management 27 Financial highlights 5 Projects and investment activity 29 Chairmans statement 6 calendar Finance review Our market 8 Results 32 Our portfolio 9 Financing 34 Strategy 10 Responsibility 36 Distinctively Derwent 12 Issue of first quarter 2010 management statement 17th May 2010 Sustainability 38 Our strategic plan 14 Risk management 42 Our tenants 17 Annual general meeting 25th May 2010 Building value 18 Governance 44 Looking forward 22 Board of directors 46 Payment of 2009 final dividend 17th June 2010 Statement of directors responsibilities 47 Directors report 48 Announcement of 2010 interim results August 2010 Report of the remuneration committee 55 Issue of third quarter 2010 management statement November 2010 Report of the audit committee 63 Report of the nominations committee 64 Independent auditors report 65 Payment of 2010 interim dividend November 2010 Financial statements 66 Announcement of 2010 results March 2011 Group income statement 68 Balance sheets 69 Statements of comprehensive income 70 Statements of changes in equity 71 Cash flow statements 72 Notes to the financial statements 73 Appendices Principal properties 102 Development pipeline 104 Portfolio management 106 Advisers Five year summary 107 List of definitions 108 Financial calendar and advisers IBC Auditors Clearing banker BDO LLP HSBC Bank plc Solicitors Registrar Slaughter and May Equiniti Brokers UBS JP Morgan Cazenove T he paper used in this annual report is certified as FSC mixed sources Designed and produced by CDT Design www.
co. uk in England by Fulmar Colour Printing Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 Derwent London plc Registered office: Derwent London plc 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ER T 44 0 20 7659 3000 F 44 0 20 7659 3100 www.
