69 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials 1 Accounting policies continued Lease incentives Lease incentives including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another systematic basis, if applicable.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specic properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market based criteria will not be met.
Investment properties Investment properties, including those under development, are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses or deficits arising are taken to the income statement.
Disposals of properties are recognised where contracts have been unconditionally exchanged during the accounting period and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the property have been transferred to the purchaser.
Depreciation No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings over three to five years.
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Development properties Development properties are carried in property, plant and equipment and are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses arising are taken to the revaluation reserve with any deficits below cost taken to the income statement.
A development property is one purchased for the purposes of development, redevelopment or substantial refurbishment with relatively little, or short-term, income whether planning permission exists or is still to be granted.
All directly attributable costs of bringing a property to a condition suitable for letting, including costs incurred prior to gaining planning permission, are capitalised into the cost of the property.
Once development is concluded, the property is transferred to investment property.
Any cumulative revaluation reserve in respect of that property is transferred to retained earnings.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method: the Group balance sheet contains the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures.
Funding accounts owed to or from the Group by joint ventures are included within investments.
The Groups share of joint venture profits and losses are included in the Group income statement in a single line.
All of the Groups joint ventures adopt the accounting policies of the Group for inclusion in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Pension benefits The Group contributes to a dened benefit pension plan which is funded with assets held separately from those of the Group.
The full value of the net assets or liabilities of the pension fund is brought on to the balance sheet at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the Group statement of recognised income and expense, all other movements are taken to the income statement.
