59 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Share Matching Plan Executive Directors and to a lesser extent Senior Managers are eligible to be awarded shares under an SMP, approved by shareholders in 2006. an individual may purchase or pledge shares already owned in the Company Investment shares up to an amount equal to 30% of their pre-tax annual base salary.
After the Investment shares have been purchased or pledged, the Company will grant conditional awards of shares Matching shares under the SMP with a value equal to two times the value of the Investment shares grossed up for the marginal rate of income tax and employee National Insurance : investment shares will remain registered in the name of the holder with full voting and dividend rights but if Investment shares are disposed of then the conditional Matching awards will lapse on a proportionate basis: and dividends on Matching shares will be rolled up.
There are two separate performance conditions, each applying to half of the Matching shares awarded: the performance condition attached to one half of an award will require NAV growth of between RPI plus 4% in total increasing on a straight line to RPI plus 12% in total over three financial years starting with the financial year that commences immediately before the date of grant over the three years from grant of the award for between 20% and 100% of this part of the award to vest i. e. between 10% and 50% of the total award : and the performance condition attached to the other half will require total shareholder return TSR performance against the selected constituents of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector excluding agencies of between median and upper quartile for between 20% and 100% of this part of the award to vest i. e. between 10% and 50% of the total award with straight-line vesting in between.
The performance conditions selected for both the LTIP and SMP are thought by the Committee to provide an appropriate balance between rewarding sustained increases in the value of the Companys net asset base and rewarding relative stock market performance.
For the part of an award to which the TSR performance condition applies, for both the 2006 LTIP and SMP the Committee must also be satisfied that the number of shares that vest as a result of the performance conditions being met is reflective of the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Actual performance against the conditions will be independently verified and reported to the Committee.
LTIP and SMP Matching shares, upon vesting, are transferred out of the Great Portland Estates plc LTIP Employer Share Trust the Trust, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the LTIP and SMP with shares vesting to date being purchased by the Trustees of the Trust in the open market.
The number of shares held by the Trust as at 31 March 2009 was 157,275.
