57 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Bonus plan Each year the Committee considers the appropriateness of the component parts of the annual bonus plan on page 56 in assessing the overall remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Committee also has the discretion to recommend the payment of an additional bonus to a director for exceptional performance over and above the high standard already required.
This discretion was not exercised for the year ended 31 March 2009.
The personal objectives, other than those covered by the corporate measures, for the Executive Directors for 2009 included the following and were specific as to each individuals role and responsibilities: active tracking of, and responsiveness to, changing tenant requirements: exceeding rental income, void and delinquency targets: ensuring appropriate turnover of assets: successful progression of the development programme: fide-risking of the medium-term development programme: appropriate monitoring of factors affecting REIT status: proactive shareholder relations programme: provision of high quality financial reporting: maintaining strong relationships with debt finance providers: good internal communication: ensuring appropriate levels of human resources: active representation on key property industry associations: the development of the Groups environmental and sustainability policies: and ensuring delivery of health and safety objectives.
As a result of the achievement of the Executive Directors objectives during the year, as reflected in the review of the Company on pages 4 to 13 and pages 20 to 39, the Committee has awarded Timon Drakesmith and Neil Thompson the full 30% of salary for operational excellence and Toby Courtauld and Robert Noel 15% of salary.
Long-Term Incentive Plans July 2006 LTIP and awards thereafter Executive Directors and Senior Managers to a lesser extent are eligible to be awarded shares under an LTIP, approved by shareholders in July 2006, up to an annual limit of 150% of a participants salary.
Under the 2006 scheme there are two separate performance conditions for the vesting of awards, each applying to one half of the shares awarded, which are believed by the Committee to provide the best alignment between the interests of participants and shareholders.
the performance condition attached to one half of an award requires NAV growth of between RPI plus 3% in total increasing on a straight-line to RPI plus 8% in total over three financial years starting with the financial year that commences immediately before the date for between 20% and 100% of this part of the award to vest i. e. between 10% and 50% of the total award : and the performance condition attached to the other half requires total shareholder return TSR performance against constituents of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector excluding agencies over the three years from grant of the award of between median and upper quartile for between 20% and 100% of this part of the award to vest i. e. between 10% and 50% of the total award with straightline vesting in between.
LTIP awards before July 2006 Under the previous LTIP, Executive Directors and Senior Managers to a lesser extent were eligible for share awards up to an annual limit of 125% of a participants basic salary.
The vesting of the shares under the 2005 and final award under this LTIP were conditional on the following performance conditions both being met: Total shareholder return measured using share price and the reinvestment of dividends over the three years relative to a bespoke comparator group of 18 companies including the Company selected from the FTSE Real Estate index at the date of the award.
Net assets per share was calculated as the fully diluted net asset value of the Great Portland Estates Group as published in the Companys Annual Report, adjusted, as appropriate: to exclude the effect of deferred tax relating to capital allowances exceeding depreciation: to include the effect of marking debt to market: to include the effect of contingent corporation tax on chargeable gains: to ensure a consistent basis of calculation following any changes in accounting standards: and to take account of certain variations in share capital.
Performance conditions attached to the LTIP awards are described on page 57.
