51 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Board Nomination Remuneration Audit scheduled Committee Committee Committee 5 meetings 2 meetings 8 meetings 8 meetings Chairman Richard Peskin 5 5 2 2 1 Martin Scicluna 2 2 Executive Directors Toby Courtauld 5 5 Robert Noel 5 5 Timon Drakesmith 5 5 Neil Thompson 5 5 Non-Executive Directors Kathleen ODonovan 5 5 2 2 8 8 8 8 Charles Irby 5 5 8 8 8 8 2 Philip Rose 5 5 2 2 7 8 3 Jonathan Short 5 5 7 8 8 8 1 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2008 and became Chairman on 16 March 2009.
2 Phillip Rose missed an Audit Committee meeting due to illness.
3 Jonathan Short was unable to attend a Remuneration Committee meeting due to a long standing commitment.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both of which are reviewed annually.
Board performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal internal evaluation conducted by the Senior Independent Director of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual directors annually, alternated with an evaluation, at least every fourth year, conducted by external consultants.
This year, the performance evaluation was undertaken internally and involved each director, including the Chairman, completing a comprehensive questionnaire and then having one-to-one interviews with Kathleen ODonovan as the Senior Independent Director assisted by Desna Martin as the Company Secretary.
The process covered Board, Committee and personal performance and the output: the results of the questionnaire: a summary of the interviews: and the recommendations and actions required, was reviewed at the 1 April 2009 Board meeting as part of a wider corporate governance review.
Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively with appropriate procedures put in place for minor areas identified for improvement.
Committees of the Board The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees which deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on written request and on the Companys website at www.
Details of principal activities undertaken at scheduled meetings of the Committees during the year are set out on page 52.
