94 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Notice of meeting Notice Notice is hereby given that the fifty-second Annual General Meeting of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at 50 Stratton Street, London W1, on Thursday 9 July 2009 at 11.30am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board available from 11.00am to meet shareholders and answer questions: 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements together with the directors and auditors reports for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To authorise the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To approve the Directors remuneration report.
To re-elect Toby Courtauld as a director of the Company.
To elect Martin Scicluna as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors.
As special business, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as to those numbered 8 and 9 as ordinary resolutions, and those numbered 10 to 12 inclusive as special resolutions.
The items of special business are explained in more detail in the Directors Report on pages 48 and 49.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from 68,762,594 to 75,000,000 by the creation of 49,899,248 additional ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each in the capital of the Company ranking pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each in the capital of the Company.
That: a the directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to: i allot relevant securities as defined for the purposes of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 12,897,891: and further ii allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of the Act in connection with a rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them up to an additional maximum nominal amount of 12,897,891: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 1 October 2010: c the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after it expires: and d all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 80 7 of the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
That the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act i subject to Resolution 9 being passed, to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash: and ii to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 3A of the Act, in either case as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive issue in favour of shareholders notwithstanding that by reason of such exclusions as the directors may deem necessary to deal with problems arising in any overseas territory, in connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever the equity securities to be issued are not offered to all of such persons in proportion to the number of shares held by each of them : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,954,225, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 1 October 2010, whichever is the earlier and all previous authorities under section 95 of the Act shall cease to have effect, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
95 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials 11.
That in accordance with Article 11 of the Companys Articles of Association the Company be and it is hereby authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of its shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine, subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 46,870,154: b the maximum price at which shares may be purchased shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 and the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal value of the shares, in each case exclusive of expenses: and c the authority to purchase conferred by this Resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or 1 October 2010 whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Registered office: 33 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PW By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary 19 May 2009 96 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Notes to notice of meeting 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar at the address shown on the form of proxy: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures s et out below, and in each case must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
As at 18 May 2009 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 181,023,034 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 18 May 2009 are 181,023,034.
Following completion of the Rights Issue announced by the Company on 19 May 2009 and which remains subject to shareholder approval as at the date of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital is expected to consist of 312,676,149 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Copies of all directors contracts will be available for inspection at 33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PW during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
8. a CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
b In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. d CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 7 July 2009 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
