48 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors affecting its performance, position and future development are set out in the Annual review on page 1 to 43.
The finances of the Group, its liquidity position, borrowing facilities and applicable covenants are described in Our financial position on pages 26 to 29 and in note 14 of the accounts on pages 79 to 81.
The current economic conditions have created a number of risks and uncertainties for the Group, these are set out in Risk management on pages 32 and 33.
In particular, there is uncertainty over future market-driven valuation movements which may affect the Groups ability to remain within its bank covenants.
The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future trading performance, valuation projections and debt requirements.
In making this assessment, we have taken into account available market information, consulted with our advisers and applied our own knowledge and experience to the Groups property portfolio and markets.
We have considered the potential to achieve further property disposals should valuations fall significantly ahead of market expectations from the 31 March 2009 position and on 19 May 2009, the Company announced a fully underwritten Rights Issue which is expected to raise additional equity of 166.4 million after expenses providing further financial flexibility.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as the directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Meeting on pages 94 to 96 sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 7 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 8 to 12 special business.
Resolution 8 will seek to increase the Companys authorised share capital.
The Companys current authorised share capital is 68,762,594 comprising 550,100,752 shares of 12.5 pence each.
As a result of the Rights Issue announced by the Company on 19 May 2009 the Rights Issue, which remains subject to shareholder approval as at the date of this document, the issued share capital of the Company is expected to increase to 39,084,518, comprising 312,676,149 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each.
Accordingly, in order to provide the Company with a reasonable level of headroom for the future, it is proposed to increase the Companys authorised share capital to 75,000,000 being 600,000,000 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each.
The proposed increase is of 6,237,406 by the creation of 49,899,248 additional ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each.
This represents an increase of 9.07% in the authorised share capital.
Resolution 9 will seek to renew the authority for the directors to allot ordinary shares.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the ABI, the proposed new authority will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares equal to an amount of up to 33% of the Companys issued share capital 12,897,891 plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, a further amount of up to an additional 33% of the Companys issued share capital 12,897,891, in each case calculated on the basis of the above capital expected to be in issue following completion of the Rights Issue.
Should the Rights Issue not proceed, the authority conferred by Resolution 9 will remain in place for the full amount stated, but the directors will limit any use they make of it to 33%, plus a further 33% in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, of the Companys issued share capital as at 19 May 2009.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority, if granted.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards to its use including as regards the directors standing for re-election in certain cases, as recommended by the ABI.
Resolution 10 will seek to renew the authority for the directors to allot equity securities for cash including any shares held in treasury up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,954,225 without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
The nominal amount of equity securities to which this authority relates represents 5% of the share capital of the Company expected to be in issue following completion of the Rights Issue.
Should the Rights Issue not proceed, the authority conferred by Resolution 10 will remain in place for the full number of shares stated, but the directors will limit any use they make of it to 5% of shares of the Companys issued share capital as at 19 May 2009.
49 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Resolution 11 will seek to renew the authority enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
The maximum number of shares to which the authority relates is 46,870,154.
This represents 14.99% of the share capital of the Company expected to be in issue following completion of the Rights Issue.
Should the Rights Issue not proceed, the authority conferred by Resolution 10 will remain in place for the full number of shares stated, but the directors will limit any use they may make of it to 14.99% of the shares in issue as at 19 May 2009.
The directors intend to exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
If Resolution 11 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding as treasury shares any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Any shares purchased by the Company under this authority would be cancelled unless the shares are being purchased by the Company to hold and resell as treasury shares.
The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less than the nominal value of 12.5 pence per share and not more than the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
There were no purchases of shares by the Company during the year.
At 31 March 2009, the number of shares which may be purchased under the shareholders authority given at the 2008 Annual General Meeting was 27,135,353 and the number of shares in issue was 181,023,034.
At 19 May 2009, the Company held no shares in treasury.
The authorities granted under Resolutions 9, 10, and 11 will expire at the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting or on 1 October 2010, whichever is the earlier.
Resolution 12 is required in view of the proposed implementation in the UK in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive SRD.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with its Articles of Association and would like to preserve the ability to do so.
The regulation implementing the SRD will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Under the terms of the SRD, the resolution will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the SRD before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary 19 May 2009
