54 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, a rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted through a combination of the external audit process or through reviews by members of the finance team and or external advisers as appropriate.
Internal controls The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Key features of the system of internal control include: a comprehensive system of financial reporting and business planning: a defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board: an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: formal documentation procedures: the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with senior management to review all operational aspects of the business and risk management systems: the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on developments at each scheduled Board meeting: and a formal whistleblowing policy.
Three times a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review of the framework of how the Groups risks are managed through operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, and Board review and oversight.
The Committee formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reports to the Board.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the regulatory environment.
Key risks to the business and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risks are included on pages 32, 33 and 16.
Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders and fund managers.
Visits are also arranged to properties of particular interest or significance, particularly in relation to developments, to assist investors understanding of the Companys business.
The Executive Directors are the Companys principal representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties, and independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, will aim to meet with major shareholders, as appropriate, during the course of the coming year.
Presentations to analysts and the accompanying script are simultaneously posted on the Companys website at www.
As Chairman and Senior Independent Director, respectively, Martin Scicluna and Kathleen ODonovan are each available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 9 July 2009 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 94 to 96.
Details of the number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution, will be disclosed at the meeting and posted to the Companys website.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary 19 May 2009
