99 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Shareholders information Shareholder enquiries Payment of dividends All enquiries relating to holdings of shares, bonds or debentures If you would like your dividends interest paid directly into in Great Portland Estates, including notication of change of your bank or building society account you should write to address, queries regarding dividend interest payments or the loss Capita Registrars including details of your nominated account.
of a certicate, should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Although this will enable your dividend interest to be paid Capita Registrars directly into your account, your tax voucher will still be sent Northern House to your registered address.
Fenay Bridge Hudderseld HD8 0GA Low cost dealing service Tel: 0871 664 0300 This service provides both existing and prospective Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
shareholders with a simple, postal, low-cost method If you are calling from overseas please dial 44 20 8639 3399 of buying and selling Great Portland Estates shares.
For further information, or a dealing Unsolicited telephone calls Boiler room scams form, contact: Over the last year, some of our shareholders have received JP Morgan Cazenove unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning 20 Moorgate investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or London EC2R 6DA implying that they have some connection with the Company.
Tel: 020 7155 5155 These are typically from overseas based brokers who target Website UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to The Company has a corporate website, which holds, amongst be worthless or high risk shares in UK or overseas investments.
other information, a copy of our latest annual report and These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
accounts, a list of properties held by the Group and copies Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited of all press announcements released over the last advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 12 months.
The site can be found at www.
co. uk reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Tax consequences of REIT status ensure you get the correct name of the person As a REIT, dividend payments must be split between PIDs and organisation: and non-PIDs.
Information in respect of the tax consequences for shareholders of receiving dividends can be found on check that the organisation is on the Financial Services the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors reits Authority FSA Register and is authorised to give financial advice before getting involved by visiting Company Secretary www.
uk pages register: Desna Martin, BCom CA Aust ACIS report the matter to the FSA Registered ofce Consumer Helpline 0300 500 5000 with details, 33 Cavendish Square or complete the Unauthorised Firms Reporting Form at London W1G 0PW www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
More detailed information on this or similar activities can be found on the FSA website at www.
uk 100 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Your notes Designed and produced by FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
com This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the Printed by CTD who are FSC and well-managed forest through ISO 14001 certied.
to the nished document in the printing factory.
The document is printed on Era Silk, which is produced from 50% genuine ISO 14001 A pattern of control for waste pulp, the balance being ECF an environmental management system pulp from well-managed certied against which an organisation can be forests.
The paper is also FSC certied credited by a third party.
and manufactured at an ISO 14001 accredited mill.
Great Portland Estates plc 33 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PW Tel: 020 7647 3000 Fax: 020 7016 5500 www.
