68 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, financial instruments and pension assets.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors report on page46.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
Management believes that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation, the classification of tenant leases between financing and operating and the determination of profit taking on development management agreements.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement are set out below.
During 2009, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: IFRIC 14: IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and guidance relevant to the Group were in issue: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: IAS 23 Borrowing Costs: Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items: Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Assets: Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Assets Effective Date and Transition: Amendment to IAS 40 Investment Property Improvements to IFRSs 2008 : Improvements to IFRSs 2008: Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate: Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations: Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
It is not expected that these pronouncements will have any significant future impact on the Groups accounts, except for the amendment to IAS 40 Investment Property.
Under the amended IAS 40 all investment property in the course of construction will be recognised in investment property and measured at fair value through the income statement.
Currently, properties acquired to be developed for future use as investment properties are treated as development property.
Any fair value movements for such properties are recorded directly in the revaluation reserve, rather than through the income statement.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
Rent receivable This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Tenant leases Management have considered the potential transfer of risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for all properties leased to tenants and in their judgement have determined that all such leases are operating leases.
