70 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Capitalisation of interest Interest associated with direct expenditure on investment properties under development and development properties is capitalised.
Direct expenditure includes the purchase cost of a site for development properties, but does not include the original book cost of investment property under development.
Interest is capitalised from the start of the development work until the date of practical completion.
The rate used is the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of borrowings or, if appropriate, the rate on specific associated borrowings.
Financial instruments: i Derivatives The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value in the balance sheet.
To the extent that a derivative provides an effective cash flow hedge against the Groups underlying exposure the movements in the fair value of the hedge are taken to equity.
To the extent that the derivative does not effectively hedge the underlying exposure the movement in the fair value of the hedge is taken to the income statement.
ii Borrowings The Groups borrowings in the form of its debentures and bank loans are recognised initially at fair value, after taking account of any discount or premium on issue and attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently borrowings are held at amortised cost, with any discounts, premiums and attributable costs charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
iii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into a known amount of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
iv Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Head leases The present value of future ground rents is added to the carrying value of a leasehold investment property and to long-term liabilities.
On payment of a ground rent virtually all of the cost is charged to the income statement, principally as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability: an equal reduction to the assets valuation is charged to the income statement.
Segmental analysis The Group has only one reportable segment on the basis that all of its revenue is generated from investment properties located in central London: accordingly no segmental analysis is presented.
Development management agreements Where the outcome of a development management agreement can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
Management exercise judgement when estimating the percentage complete, this is normally measured as the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Variations in work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the client.
Where the outcome of a development management agreement cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total costs will exceed total revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
2 Rental income 2009 2008 m m Gross rental income 39.1 39.0 Amortisation of capitalised lease incentives 3.4 5.4 Ground rents payable 0.1 42.4 44.4
