93 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Property Income Distributions PIDs Earnings per share adjusted to exclude non-recurring items, Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property profits or losses on sales of investment properties, property rental business.
revaluations and deferred tax on capital allowances and property Portfolio internal rate of return IRR revaluations on a diluted basis.
The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied to Adjusted net assets per share the projected cash flows from the portfolio would result in a net NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on capital allowances present value of zero.
and the fair value of derivatives on a diluted basis.
REIT Diluted figures UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential Rent roll shares issuable under the convertible bond.
The annual contracted rental income.
Earnings per share EPS Return on capital employed ROCE Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of Return on capital employed is measured as profit before ordinary shares in issue.
financing costs plus revaluation surplus on development property EPRA adjustments divided by the opening gross capital.
Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and adjusted Return on shareholders equity NAV as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association The growth in the adjusted diluted net assets per share plus EPRA in their January 2006 Best Practice and Policy dividends per share for the period expressed as a percentage of Recommendations.
the adjusted net assets per share at the beginning of the period.
Estimated rental value ERV Reversionary or under-rented The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, together Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
F&BS Reversionary yield Finance and business services sector.
The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the ERV.
IPD The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company Total property return TPR that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived from holding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals IPD central London expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London properties in their monthly and quarterly valued universes.
Total shareholder return TSR The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Loan to value LTV Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period Total bank loans and debenture stock including our share of joint expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning ventures expressed as a percentage of the market value of the of the period.
property portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
Triple net asset value NNNAV Like-for-like portfolio NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial Properties that have been held for the whole of the period liabilities on a diluted basis.
True equivalent yield Market value The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which a from an investment property, including current rent, reversions property should exchange on the date of valuation between a to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction equates to the market value having taken into account notional after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
In line with market practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
Voids The element of a property which is unoccupied but available Net assets per share or net asset value NAV for letting, usually expressed as the ERV of the void space divided Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary by the existing rent roll plus the ERV of the void space.
shares at the balance sheet date.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC Net gearing The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and the Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to percentage of adjusted equity shareholders funds.
Net initial yield Weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage The weighted average unexpired lease term expressed in years.
of the investment property valuation having added notional purchasers costs.
Non-PIDs Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
