| Corporate governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors Directors declaration in relation to relevant audit information in relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Company.
The reports of the independent auditors for the Group auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: and the Company set out their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
To the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for He has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be expected each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the to have taken in order to make himself aware of relevant audit Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the of that information.
Cobham plc financial statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Directors responsibility statement Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and belief that: The Group and Cobham plc financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
accounting standards identified above, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: and the Group: and The Directors report and Business review include a fair review of the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: development and performance of the business and the position of Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as The names of the Directors and their details appear on pages adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Cobham plc 32 to 33. financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 50 The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors explained in the financial statements: and on 3 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Prepare the Group and Cobham plc financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Andy Stevens Chief Executive Officer The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Warren Turner The Directors are responsible for keeping sufficient accounting records Chief Financial Officer to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Cobham plc financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
