| Group financial statements Accounting policies General information Amendments to IFRS 7, Improving Disclosures about Financial These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements Instruments.
These amendments have resulted in some changes of Cobham plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, to the disclosures in notes 26 and 27. registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
The address of the registered office is Brook Road, The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ.
which have been endorsed by the EU, have also been adopted with effect from 1 January 2009 or as stated below.
No changes to previously Basis of preparation published accounting policies or other adjustments were required on These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in their adoption.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS1, Council IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, issued in January2008.
Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis Reporting Standards and IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of FinancialStatements.
certain borrowings and derivative contracts which are held at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally IFRIC 15, Agreements for Construction of Real Estate.
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers applies to transfers atthe date of the financial statements and the reported amounts received after 1 July 2009. of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from are as set out below.
Basis of consolidation Standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, endorsed The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the by the EU, which have been adopted from 1 January 2009 and which parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the impact on the financial statements are as follows: financial period.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method and include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements.
These financial losses of joint ventures from the date that joint control commences until statements have been prepared under the disclosure requirements of the date this ceases.
the revised standard and accordingly the Group has chosen to present two performance statements: a consolidated income statement and Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions using the purchase a consolidated statement of comprehensive income formerly the method of accounting, with effect from the date control passes.
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Changes Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the economic in equity such as dividends are shown in a separate consolidated entity method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value statement of changes in equity.
of the consideration given plus directly attributable acquisition costs.
In accordance with this standard, segment information has been presented on the same basis as used Businesses disposed of are accounted for up until control passes at the for internal management reporting as provided to the chief operating point of their disposal.
The results of businesses disposed of, and of decision maker.
Segment information prepared on this basis is those classified as held for sale at the year end are disclosed as arising presented in note 1. from discontinued operations where they meet the criteria to be treated IFRS 2, Share-based Payments amendment.
This has restricted as such.
the definition of vesting conditions to service and performance conditions and confirmed that all cancellations whether by the Businesses acquired with the intention of sale in the short term are not employee or the entity receive the same accounting treatment.
consolidated and are held at their fair value less costs to sell.
The results The impact of adoption of this amendment has been to accelerate of such businesses are not reflected in the Group results.
charges to the income statement where such cancellations occur and to restate the fair value at grant date of awards under the ShareSave All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are scheme to take into account estimated employee cancellation rates.
The adjustment in respect of prior years required on adoption of this amendment was not material and, in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, has been accounted for in the current year.
com | Group financial statements Underlying measures to include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment In addition to the information required by IFRS and to assist with the properties, inventory and trade and other receivables.
They do not understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its include tax receivables, cash and bank balances and derivative financial published statements trading profit and underlying earnings results.
This definition of segment assets is consistent with disclosures given in previous years in accordance with IAS 14.
Trading profit and underlying earnings have been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of certain Pensions acquisition related costs, portfolio restructuring costs, the marking to The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined market of currency instruments not realised in the period and contribution schemes.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit Acquisition related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying are the current service costs.
Gains and losses on settlements and earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on curtailments arising on a business disposal are included in profit on acquisition, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of disposal.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income inventory written up on acquisition, costs charged post acquisition statement if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, related to acquired share options and direct costs associated with the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
expected return on assets and interest cost are shown within finance income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Portfolio restructuring costs comprise exceptional profits or losses immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
arising on disposals actually completed, as well as exceptional costs or profits associated with the restructuring of the Groups business and Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held siteintegrations.
separately from those of the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities All underlying measures include the revenue and operational results are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and of both continuing and discontinued businesses until the point of sale discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high 53 of the operation.
quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting defined benefit asset borrowings at the balance sheet date.
or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Revenue recognition For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been passed benefits are the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between to the customer.
Revenue for services is recognised as the services are contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are rendered.
It excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
In the case of contracts with a long duration, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date Taxation including deferred taxation assessed with reference to contract milestones.
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Operating segments Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable identified as the Board.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or to assess performance and allocate resources, which is based on the deductible in other years and also excludes items that are never taxable Groups operating Divisions and has been used to determine operating or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using segments.
There has been no change to the definition of the reported rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance segments as a result of the adoption of IFRS 8.
These segments are sheet date.
Details of the composition and purpose of the Board can be found on page 38.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of The Board assesses the performance of operating Divisions based on assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated revenue, trading profit as defined above and operating cash generation.
Interest income and expenditure, and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the Board on a Group basis.
Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of deficits on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, accelerated tax The Board does not review any information on segment assets and depreciation and acquisition accounting.
Deferred tax liabilities are liabilities.
Segment assets as disclosed in note 1 have been defined recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | Group financial statements Accounting policies continued are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions since the date of transition to available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
IFRS is treated as a foreign currency asset and revalued at the balance The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising are taken through other sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that comprehensive income to the translation reserve and recycled to the sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets income statement when the related subsidiary is sold.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of businesses, subsidiaries and joint Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates and laws that have been ventures is capitalised and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability cannot be subsequently reversed.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
with in OCI or in equity respectively.
Research and development Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when incurred.
Development costs not chargeable to customers are written the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets, are met.
At Dividends that point further costs are capitalised as an intangible asset until the Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are intangible asset is readily available for use and it is then amortised fullyauthorised.
on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
Share-based payments Other intangible assets For grants made under the Groups equity settled share-based payment Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group 54 schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant These include customer relationships, technology and software, vesting periods.
The only internally generated intangible assets are development costs which are capitalised as The costs of awards made under cash settled share-based payment described above, and internally developed software where asset schemes are measured initially at the grant date and expensed over the recognition criteria are met.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful recognised through the income statement.
life on a straight-line basis as follows: Customer relationships 2 to 15 years The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the BlackTechnology and software 2 to 10 years Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact of Development costs 2 to 10 years market related performance criteria and taking into account all Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years non-vesting conditions.
Where the terms of share-based payment schemes have been modified Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis taking into as a result of acquisition, the costs of awards have been allocated between account the specific characteristics of the asset.
acquisition cost and post-combination expense based on the proportion of the vesting period completed prior to the acquisition and the respective Property, plant and equipment fair values of the original and replacement awards at that date.
Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at leastannually.
Intangible assets Goodwill Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and equipment are held at Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of impairment losses.
a business, subsidiary or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units that are All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated on expected to benefit from that business combination.
Cash generating a straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the estimated units CGUs are typically business units which are separately managed, useful lives.
These lives are as follows: for which financial results are individually reported and which generate cash flows that are largely independent.
com | Group financial statements Freehold buildings Financial assets and liabilities including investmentproperties 50 years Financial assets are categorised on initial recognition as assets held at Leasehold properties The period of the lease fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables dependent Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years upon the purpose for which the assets were acquired and as follows: Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those held for annually and adjusted where necessary.
trading in the short term and are classified as current assets.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected or determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the These are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon term of the relevant lease.
maturity and included within trade and other receivables.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the or available for sale categories which are defined as follows: carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with Investment properties fixed maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals and or Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial for capital appreciation, are stated at cost at the balance sheet date.
assets either designated by management as available for sale or not They are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual falling into any of the above categories.
value over their estimated useful lives.
Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as liabilities held Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight line basis.
at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities held at cost.
Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are those held for Aircraft overhaul expenditure trading in the short term and are classified as current or non-current 55 Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when liabilities dependent upon the maturity date of the instruments.
incurred and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated required on aircraft held under operating leases are provided for over the as hedges.
period between the scheduled maintenance events.
When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is measured at Inventories its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to liability.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are carried first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in not at fair value through profit or loss are stated at amortised cost.
Trade and other receivables Pre-contract and bid costs Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced All costs directly attributable to securing contracts incurred after the by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
point that they become virtually certain, but before commencement of Allowances for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence the contract, are recognised as an asset.
Such costs are amortised to the that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade income statement over the period for which this activity will continue receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for to provide value.
based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience.
Amounts which are less than six months Financial instruments overdue are provided where recovery of the balance due is considered Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups to be doubtful.
The impairment recorded is the difference between the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual carrying value of the receivables and the present value of the estimated provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are recognised at future cashflows.
Any impairment required is recorded in the income tradedate.
The balance may be written off in full generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
At that time, any amounts previously provided for impairment are released.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | Group financial statements Accounting policies continued Trade payables attributable to the hedged risk.
The gains or losses relating to interest Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings are recognised in finance nominalvalue.
income and expense in the income statement.
Bank borrowings Cash flow hedges Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount The effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in OCI.
The amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent to finance income and expense in the income statement in the periods that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
costs that are directly attributable to relevant property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or Cash and cash equivalents loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income with an original maturity of three months or less.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents transferred to the income statement for the period.
for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative than 12 months.
contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on Foreign currencies 56 whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Most Group the nature of the item being hedged.
companies, including the parent company, use their local currency as their functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes functional currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in nonforeign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the reduce these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well Group enters into forward contracts which are accounted for as as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various derivative financial instruments.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Income statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an approximation Foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these impacts of trading in non-functional currencies are not accounted for translations are accounted for in other comprehensive income and using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are shown the translation reserve.
separately in the income statement as part of operating profit.
Foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange impacts Disposal groups held for sale arising on the acquisition of fixed assets are accounted for as cash Disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount flowhedges.
and fair value less costs to sell when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance sheet date.
Fair value hedges The disposal group is also to be available for immediate sale and being Changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with fair value.
Businesses acquired with the intention to sell are held at fair any changes in the fair values of the hedged asset or liability that are value less costs to sell.
com | Group financial statements Leasing Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease impact is material.
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Impairment losses The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at least Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount of an asset is higher than its recoverable amount.
An intangible asset with an Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
losses are recognised in the income statement.
Provisions An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only after A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount and only constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation 57 or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Any reversal Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the is recognised in the income statement.
relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
Share capital Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the expected instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when it is considered probable that the conditions attaching to potential payment Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on will be met.
a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on finance expense.
leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months.
Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation The Group accounting policies as described above are applied of the aircraft.
Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less consistently across all Divisions and activities.
Trading between Group is charged to the income statement as incurred.
companies is contracted and priced at arms length commercial terms.
When aircraft are leased, it is customary for the contract to contain Critical accounting estimates and judgements specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on its return to the lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The statement on an aircraft utilisation basis.
current economic conditions have been considered when evaluating accounting estimates and judgements, including the application of the Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made going concern basis of preparation.
under performance guarantees are recognised at the directors best estimates of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | Group financial statements Accounting policies continued Management judgement and estimation uncertainty Retirement benefits In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies management The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation has made a number of judgements, none of which are considered to to retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities financialstatements.
which include the long-term rate of increase of salary costs, discount rate, inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality rates.
Estimates and assumptions concerning the future are also made by the The Group uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to Group.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom select the values of critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 10. equal the related actual results.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance Accounting standards not yet effective sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment Certain new standards and amendments to existing standards have to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year, been published that are mandatory for future accounting periods, are as follows: subject to EU endorsement.
Those which the Group has not adopted early and which are applicable from 1 January 2010 are as follows: Intangible assets recognised on acquisition On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by Revisions to IFRS 3, Business Combinations and IAS 27, Consolidated recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and Separate Financial Statements issued in January 2008.
These acquired at fair value.
Intangible assets are recognised where they are include consequential amendments to IAS 28 and IAS 31.
Under separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, and have a fair value IFRS 3 Revised all payments to purchase a business are to be that can be measured reliably.
For the Group these intangible assets recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent usually comprise contractual arrangements, customer relationships payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the and technology based assets, but can also include acquired patents, income statement.
Also, all acquisition related costs will be expensed.
software rights and licences and development costs.
The revisions also change the accounting for non-controlling minority interests and changes therein.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 In establishing fair value for these intangible assets recognised on Revised to business combinations completed after 1 January 2010.
58 acquisition and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and of the individual circumstances of the entity acquired.
This includes Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items and Amendment to IAS 39 trading data, such as value and duration of contracts acquired, strength, Reclassification of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition are duration and degree of exclusivity of relationships with customers, unlikely to impact on the Groups accounting policies.
as well as valuation estimates, such as the estimation of likely external Revised IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS and Amendments to royalty rates that could be associated with technology and branding IFRS 1, Additional Exemptions for First-time adopters will not have an assets and attributable future cash flows.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners is unlikely to Impairment of goodwill impact on the Groups accounting policies.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, Embedded Derivatives is unlikely annual basis.
This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash to impact on the Groups accounting policies.
generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value Amendment to IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future Transactions is unlikely to impact on the Groups accounting policies.
cash flows from the cash generating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Subject to EU endorsement, the revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Further details are given in note 14. the Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Taxation Instruments and the Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosure for First-time Adopters are effective from judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
These are not expected to have a significant impact on There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax the Groups disclosures.
Subject to EU endorsement, IFRS 9 Financial determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Instruments is effective from 1 January 2013.
Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
