| Other information Glossary A&D Aerospace & Defence MRTT Multi Role Tanker Transport AaE Australian air Express MTS M A-COM Technology Solutions AAGRM Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile OBIGGS On Board Inert Gas Generating System AGM Annual General Meeting PLB Personal Locator Beacon AIA Aerospace Industry Association of America PSI Price Sensitive Information AMRAAM Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile PSP Performance Share Plan ASD Aerospace and Defence Industries PV Private Venture Company funded research Association of Europe & development BCP Bonus Co-investment Plan QDR Quadrennial Defense Review BE&CC Business Ethics and Compliance Committee R&D Research and Development BECO Business Ethics Compliance Officer RF Radio Frequency BGAN Broadband Global Area Network RNAS Royal Naval Air Station C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, Computers, RoW Rest of World Intelligence, Surveillance And Reconnaissance SATCOM Satellite Communication CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate SBU Strategic Business Unit CR&S Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability SHE Safety, Health and Environment DoD Department of Defense STOVL Short Takeoff and Vertical Landing EBITDA Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation 120 TEAM Tactical Elevated Antenna Mast and Amortisation TSR Total Shareholder Return EPS Earnings Per Share UAS Unmanned Aircraft System ESOS Executive Share Option Scheme UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle FAA Federal Aviation Authority UGV Unmanned Ground Vehicle FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft VIS-X Vehicle Intercommunication System Expanded FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GPS Global Positioning System HAL Hindustan Aeronautics Limited HMMWV High Mobility Multi Wheeled Vehicle IDIQ Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards JLTV Joint Light Tactical Vehicle LAVC2 Light Armoured Vehicle Command and Control LCM Life Cycle Management LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan MCU Microclimate Cooling Unit MFTS Military Flying Training Services www.
com Cobhams products and services have been at the heart of sophisticated military and civil systems for 75 years, keeping people safe, improving communications, and enhancing the capability of land, marine, air and space platforms.
The Group has four divisions employing some 12,000 people on five continents, with customers and partners in more than 100 countries.
Front cover image Deployed to Iraq as a US military reserve helicopter pilot, Cobham employee Larry Kamps was protected from heat stress by wearing one of 15,000 military issue Micro Cooling Unit MCU systems supplied by Cobham Life Support, the Cobham business unit in which he is employed in civilian life.
The MCU circulates cooling liquid through a vest worn under the uniform and has been shown to triple the effective endurance of helicopter pilots on operations.
Organic revenue growth is defined as revenue growth stated the integration activity originate from the Groups strategy at constant translation exchange, excluding the incremental announcement in September 2005.
The 2005 portfolio effect of acquisitions and disposals.
restructuring is now substantially complete and restructuring 2.
Cobhams Technology Divisions comprise Cobham Avionics costs arising after 2009 are to be reported as part of the underlying and Surveillance, Cobham Defence Systems and Cobham result.
All underlying measures include the revenue and operational Designed and produced by Addison www.
results of both continuing and discontinued businesses up to the Printed by Park Communications.
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group point of sale of the operation.
From 2010 transaction costs and has included within its published statements trading profit and changes to the initial estimate of contingent payments related to underlying earnings results.
Trading profit and underlying earnings future acquisitions will also be excluded from trading profit and The paper used in this report is produced from 50% recovered waste Andy Stevens have been defined to exclude the impacts of certain acquisition underlying earnings.
The pulp is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Chief Executive Officer related charges, portfolio restructuring impacts, the mark-to-market 4.
Operating cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations 00:00:00 Free ECF process.
The Forest Stewardship Council has given this paper of currency instruments not realised in the period and impairments per the consolidated cash flow statement, adjusted for cash flows of goodwill.
Acquisition related charges excluded from trading from the purchase or disposal of fixed assets.
Operating cash its Mixed Sources accreditation, acknowledging it has been produced profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage from recycled fibre, well managed forests and other controlled sources.
A recorded webcast of the results presentation, including slides, intangible assets recognised on acquisition, such as customer of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
The paper mill and printer are certified to the ISO14001 environmental is available on www.
com relationships, technology, software and the like, the writing off 5.
Throughout this document, PV Private Venture or company management standard.
of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up funded Research and Development expenditure for 2008 and the on acquisition and costs charged post acquisition, related to PV medium term target have been restated on a proforma basis acquired share options.
Portfolio restructuring impacts comprise for the impact of Cobham Analytic Solutions, formerly SPARTA and When you have finished with this report, please pass it on to other exceptional profits arising on business divestments completed Argotek, where the vast majority of Research and Development is interested parties or remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled in prior years which have funded exceptional costs associated funded by customers.
These numbers are stated on the same basis paper waste.
with the Groups site integrations.
Both the divestments and as the 2009 results.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The most important thing we build is trust The most important thing we build is trust Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ England www.
