144 Contact details If you have any comments about this years Annual Report please contact: Investor Relations Department Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF T: 44 0 20 7413 9000 E: investor.
com If you have any other comments or queries on any aspect of our business, please do not hesitate to contact us as above and we will pass your enquiry on to the relevant person.
to read Website Report of the Directors Forward-looking statements Land Securities website www.
com gives additional Pages 6 to 80 inclusive consist of a Report of the Directors that By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and information on the Group.
Information made available on the has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in uncertainties facing the Group in the 2009 Annual Report website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
reliance upon English law and the liabilities of the Directors in involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations can cause results and developments to differ materially Notice regarding limitations on Directors liability under and restrictions provided by such law.
The statements reflect knowledge English law and information available at the date of preparation of this Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a new safe harbour limits Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions to update these statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report from the Report of the Directors contained on pages 6 to 80. should be construed as a profit forecast.
Under English law the Directors would be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Report of the Directors contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate website www.
com Our approach to corporate responsibility Our vision, strategy, objectives and values Our response to climate change Information on our Retail Portfolio and London Portfolio Corporate responsibility stakeholders Structure and Senior Management at Land Securities 2008 09 activities and achievements Latest information for investors Future challenges Corporate responsibility Media centre Working at Land Securities Frequently asked questions Design by sasdesign.
co. uk This brochure has been printed on Naturalis Absolute White Words by Tim Rich paper.
This paper is made up of 100% fibre ECF virgin wood fibre, Illustrations by James Graham independently certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Location photography by Stewardship Council.
The paper is manufactured at a mill that Michael Christopher Brown is certified to ISO14001 environmental management standards.
Portraits by Andy Lane All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, process and the inks used are all vegetable oil based.
ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral Land Securities Group PLC Copyright and trade mark notices All rights reserved.
Copyright 2009 Land Securities Group PLC.
Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, the Cornerstones logo and Making Property Work, are trade marks of Land Securities Group PLC.
All other trade marks and registered trade marks are the property of their respective owners.
