142 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Initial yield Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Earnings per share based on revenue profit plus profits losses on trading Annualised net rents on investment properties expressed as a percentage A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three quarters of its properties and long-term development contracts all after tax.
profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income and capital gains from the property rental business are exempt from tax but Adjusted net asset value NAV per share Interest Cover Ratio ICR the REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
NAV per share adjusted to add back the adjustment arising from the A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
fide-recognition of the bond exchange, together with cumulative mark-to-market outstanding debt.
adjustment arising on interest swaps and similar instruments used for hedging Rental value growth purposes.
Interest rate swap Increase in the current rental value, as determined by the Companys valuers, A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate over the 12 month period on a like-for-like basis.
Average unexpired lease term obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are used by the Group Excludes short-term lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
Retail Portfolio residential leases and long ground leases.
This business includes our shopping centres, shops, retail warehouse properties, Investment portfolio Accor hotel portfolio and assets held in retail joint ventures but not Central Balanced scorecard The investment portfolio comprises the Groups wholly-owned investment London retail.
An approach to strategic management developed in the early 1990s by properties together with the properties held for development.
Robert Kaplan and David Norton to translate an organisations vision Retail park 2 into a set of performance indicators distributed among four perspectives: Joint venture JV A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating over 4,650m Financial, Customer, Internal Business Processes, and Learning and Growth.
An entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and is with shared parking.
jointly controlled by the Group and one or more venturers under a contractual Book value arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to Retail Price Index RPI The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial statements.
the operation, performance and financial position of the venture require each An indicator of inflation in the UK.
It measures the average change from month venturers consent.
to month in the prices of goods and services in the UK.
BREEAM Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method, the Lease incentives Return on average capital employed worlds most widely used environmental assessment method for buildings Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before tax, divided by the which assesses environmental impact against a set of objective criteria.
will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus net debt.
For accounting purposes, under IFRS, the value of the rent-free period is CABE spread over the non-cancellable life of the lease.
Return on average equity Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment CABE.
Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average equity LIBOR shareholders funds.
Combined portfolio The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank to The combined portfolio is our wholly-owned investment property portfolio another for lending money.
Revenue profit combined with our share of the value of properties held in joint ventures.
Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current asset and trading Unless stated these are the pro-forma numbers we use when discussing the Like-for-like portfolio properties, profits on long-term development contracts, revaluation surpluses, investment property business.
Properties that have been in the investment or combined portfolio for the whole mark-to-market adjustments on interest rate swaps and similar instruments of the current and previous financial year.
used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to interest payable resulting from the Development pipeline amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition, debt and other restructuring The Groups development programme together with any proposed schemes Loan-to-value LTV charges and any exceptional items.
that are not yet included in the development programme but which are more Group LTV is the ratio of the sum of investment properties, net investment in likely to proceed than not.
finance leases and trading properties of both the Group and joint ventures to net Reversionary or under-rented debt, including joint ventures, expressed as a percentage.
For the Security Group, Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Development programme LTV is the ratio of debt lent to the Security Group divided by the value of The Groups development programme comprises projects which are completed secured assets.
Reversionary yield but less than 95% let: developments on site: committed developments being The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise once the rent reaches projects which are approved and the building contract let : and authorised London Portfolio the ERV.
developments those projects approved by the Board for which the building This business includes all London offices and Central London retail, but excludes contract has not yet been let.
For reporting purposes we retain properties in those assets held in the Metro Shopping Fund LP.
Total business return the programme until they are 95% let.
Dividend per share, plus the increase in adjusted diluted net asset value per Mark-to-market adjustment share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the beginning Development surplus An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability of the year.
Excess of latest valuation over the total development cost TDC.
Total development cost TDC Diluted figures Net asset value NAV per share All capital expenditure on a project including the opening book value of the Reported amount adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive shares Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company divided by the number property on commencement of development, together with all finance costs issuable under employee share schemes.
of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Earnings per share EPS Open A1 planning consent Total property return TPR Profit after taxation attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the Planning permission for the retail sale of any goods.
Valuation surplus, profit loss on property sales and net rental income in weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening book Open market value value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure incurred EPRA Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in during the current year, on the investment property portfolio.
European Public Real Estate Association.
the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual Total shareholder return Equivalent yield practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the gross the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
outlays for the purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions to current market rent, and such items as voids and expenditures Outline planning consent Trading properties but disregarding potential changes in market rents and reflecting the actual This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such as Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the cash flow rents.
Full details of the development scheme must be provided balance sheet.
in an application for full planning consent, including detailed design, external Estimated rental value ERV appearance and landscaping before a project can proceed.
An outline planning Turnover rent The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually permission will lapse if full planning permission is not granted within three years.
Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
This will normally be different to the rent being paid.
Over-rented Underlying operating profit Exceptional item Space that is let at a rent above its ERV.
Operating profit before profit on disposal of non-current properties, revaluation An item of income or expense that is deemed to be sufficiently material, of investment properties, and exceptional items stated within operating profit.
either by its size or nature, to require separate disclosure.
Passing rent The annual rental income receivable which may be more or less than the ERV Voids Finance lease see over-rented and reversionary.
The area in a property or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership available for letting.
from the lessor to the lessee.
Property Income Distribution PID A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC Gearing net A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as a benchmark to Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, corporate its shareholders.
bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative mark-to-market adjustment on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
Proposed developments Yield shift Schemes that are not yet included in the development programme but which A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
Gross income yield are more likely to proceed than not.
The annual cash net rent on investment properties including those tenants in Zone A administration expressed as a percentage of the valuation ignoring costs of Pre-let A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by dividing purchase or sale.
A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, is at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the Head lease Qualifying activities Qualifying assets zone in front of it.
A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains under UK REIT legislation.
