Shareholder information Resolutions 8 and 9 Explanatory notes to the Resolutions Auditors have to be appointed at every general meeting at which Resolution 1 accounts are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment The directors are required to present to the Meeting the audited of Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors will end at the conclusion accounts and the Directors and auditors report for the financial year of the AGM and it has advised its willingness to stand for ended 30 September 2009. re-appointment.
It is normal practice for a companys directors to be authorised to agree how much the auditors should be paid and Resolution 2 Resolution 9 grants this authority to the directors.
The Directors Remuneration report includes the Companys policy on directors remuneration for the next financial year and for the Resolution 10 years subsequent to that, a table containing details of the directors The first part of Resolution 10 seeks to grant the directors authority emoluments and a line graph that shows the Total Shareholder to allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Return TSR, from 1 October 2004, together with the TSR for the Association and section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006, FTSE 100 index since that date.
relevant securities with a maximum nominal amount of 61,800,000 the section 551 amount.
This represents 618,000,000 ordinary Resolution 3 shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, which is If Resolution 3 is approved by shareholders, the final dividend approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital as for the year ended 30 September 2009 will be paid on 1 March at 25 November 2009 being the last practicable date prior to the 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on publication of this Notice.
The Company does not currently hold 29 January 2010. any shares as treasury shares.
The authority would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, remain in force up to Resolution 4 the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2011, or The Companys Articles of Association permit any director appointed 4 May 2011, whichever is earlier.
by the Board since the date of the last Annual General Meeting AGM to hold office only until the date of the next AGM.
The On 31 December 2008, the Association of British Insurers ABI director is then eligible for election by shareholders.
Don Robert revised its guidelines on directors authority to allot shares.
The new is standing for election as a non-executive director following his guidelines state that ABI members will continue to permit, and treat appointment on 8 May 2009.
Don Robert has a letter of engagement as routine, a request for authorisation to allot up to one-third of the for an initial period of three years and his appointment is terminable existing issued share capital of the Company, together with the without compensation.
number of shares required to be allotted in respect of share incentive schemes.
The new guidelines also state that the ABI will now regard Resolutions 5, 6 and 7 as routine, requests to authorise the allotment of a further one-third Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the of the Companys issued share capital provided that such additional directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition, allotment is only applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues and no director may serve for more than three years without being the authorisation is valid for one year only.
The Board considers re-elected by shareholders.
Gary Green, Sir Ian Robinson and it appropriate that the Company should follow the revised ABI Steve Lucas will retire by rotation this year in accordance with the guidelines.
The second part of Resolution 10 therefore seeks to grant Articles of Association and are proposed for re-election through the directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a separate resolutions numbered 5, 6 and 7.
Gary Green is standing rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders with a nominal value for re-election as an executive director and Sir Ian Robinson and of up to 61,800,000 representing 618,000,000 ordinary shares of Steve Lucas for re-election as non-executive directors.
agreement of Gary Green has no fixed term and is capable of termination on 12 months notice from the Company and six months The total authorisation sought by Resolution 10 is equal to two-thirds notice from Gary Green.
The letters of engagement of Sir Ian of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding Robinson and Steve Lucas are terminable without compensation.
treasury shares as at 25 November 2009, being the last practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Biographical details of all the directors standing for election and re-election appear on page 42 of the Annual Report 2009.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 129 Shareholder information Notice of meeting Resolution 11 Beyond the share buy-back programme referred to on page 44 of Resolution 11, which is being proposed as a special resolution, the Annual Report 2009, the directors have no present intention of seeks to renew the directors authority to issue equity securities of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights but they consider it desirable to provide maximum flexibility in the pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and management of the Companys capital resources.
The directors section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than in connection with a rights, would only purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained in this would be to result in an increase in earnings per share and would Resolution, would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of benefit shareholders generally.
This represents 92,500,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, Any purchases of ordinary shares would be made by means of which is approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The capital as at 25 November 2009 being the last practicable date prior Company holds no shares in treasury but the directors currently to the publication of this Notice.
The authority would, unless intend that any shares which are repurchased, outside of the share previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, expire at the buy-back referred to above, may be held as treasury shares.
conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2011 or on 4 May 2011 if earlier.
As at 25 November 2009 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, there were options outstanding over Save in respect of issues of shares in respect of various employee approximately 58,700,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the share schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the directors Company which represent 3.2% of the Companys issued ordinary have no current plans to utilise either of the authorities sought share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the authority by Resolutions 10 and 11 although they consider their renewal to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of these options would represent 3.5% of the Companys issued business opportunities as they arise.
In addition and in line with best ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three years and Resolution 13 the Board confirms its intention to follow best practice set out in the The Compass Group Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP will shortly Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles which provides that expire and it is proposed that future share incentive awards to usage of this authority in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued executive directors and members of the Executive Committee be share capital in a rolling three-year period would not take place made under a new long-term incentive plan.
The LTIP is designed to without prior consultation with shareholders.
incentivise executive directors and other such senior executives by providing a share of the long-term value they create for shareholders.
Resolution 12 The Remuneration Committee of the Board believes this is the most This Resolution, which is being proposed as a special resolution, appropriate way to recognise superior performance.
empowers the directors to make limited on-market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited to a maximum The terms of the proposed new plan will remain broadly similar of 185,500,000 shares just under 10% of the issued ordinary share to those of the existing rules, such that awards will continue to be capital as at 25 November 2009, being the last practicable date subject to primary performance conditions of Total Shareholder prior to the publication of this Notice and details the minimum Return TSR and Group Free Cash Flow GFCF and the maximum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of expenses.
annual opportunity will not exceed 200% of base salary.
The The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at the proposed new plan rules have been drafted to take account of conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from current governance guidelines.
Key proposed amendments include the passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
the ability to settle awards in shares or cash if required, a reduction in the averaging period for determination of the TSR performance The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares condition from six months to three months and implementation of Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
These a recoupment policy in the event of material fraud or misconduct regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as by the recipient.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority to The main features of the plan are summarised in the appendix to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares this document.
to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be treated as if cancelled.
130 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
