Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2009 from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a Introduction significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are discussed below.
Groups financial statements are set out below: Income taxes A Accounting convention and basis The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide of preparation provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
as adopted by the European Union that are effective for the year Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the ended 30 September 2009.
They have been prepared under the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax financial instruments.
provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern Goodwill basis.
This is discussed in the Business Review on page 27.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IFRS 8 section M below.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be have been determined based on value in use calculations.
These identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions consistent Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their approved by management.
The key assumptions used for the value performance, and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or in use calculations are set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
The Group has elected to adopt this Standard early.
In contrast, the predecessor Standard IAS 14 Segment Post-employment benefits Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent business and geographical, using a risks and rewards approach, actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgement is with the Groups system of internal financial reporting to key required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The principal management personnel serving only as the starting point for the assumptions used are described in note 23 to the financial identification of segments.
The Group has determined in accordance statements.
with IFRS 8 that its reported operating segments will be based on geographies which are the segments reviewed by the chief operating C Basis of consolidation decision maker and were the basis of its primary operating segments under IAS 14 and the segmental information set out in The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company note 1 is presented on this basis.
IFRS 8 also requires the disclosure of information about products and services.
The Group has its subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint ventures and associates made up to 30 September each year.
determined that it is appropriate to provide such information by sector enhancing the previous disclosure made under IAS 14.
Comparative data has been restated accordingly.
D Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The Group has also adopted IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The adoption of this Interpretation has not led to any material change Subsidiaries in the Groups accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups are considered when assessing control.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2009 or later periods.
The Group has identified IFRS 3 Revised Business Joint ventures Combinations, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, IFRIC Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, IFRIC 18 a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and Transfers of Assets from Customers, as well as amendments to other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups share IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, IAS 23 is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method.
Borrowing Costs and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the and Measurement as being relevant to its business but the Group Groups share of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities.
has not adopted these early.
The Group does not anticipate that any of these standards or interpretations will have a material impact on Associates the Groups financial statements.
Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint ventures over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in financial and operating policy decisions.
Investments in associated B Use of assumptions and estimates undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
The The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of the management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
Investments in affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and associates include goodwill identified on acquisition and are carried liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and assumptions in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ impairment in value.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 65
