Governance the plans, including the total number of options outstanding, are set of trade creditors for the Group as at 30 September 2009 was out in notes 24 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements on equivalent to 54 days 2008: 53 days of trade purchases.
Details of awards made to directors of the Company under the LTIP are set out on page 55.
The LTIP Shareholder services is described in more detail in the Directors Remuneration report The Share Portal is a service offered by our Registrars, Capita on pages 54 to 55 which shows the total number of LTIP awards Registrars, which allows shareholders online access to a range of outstanding as at 30 September 2009. shareholder information.
The Share Portal provides access to details of shareholdings in the Company and practical help on transferring Employee policies and involvement shares and updating personal details.
It enables shareholders to The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its register to receive shareholder communications electronically, rather employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins than by post and it also enables shareholders to appoint proxies and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
To register, websites, on matters affecting them as employees and on the issues shareholders simply need to log on to www.
Those Compass businesses in the and follow the instructions to register.
Shareholders registering for European Economic Area which have domestic information and the Share Portal will need to have their investor code to hand which consultation processes in place, such as works councils, are able is shown on share certificates and on the Form of Proxy sent with to select representatives to participate in the Compass European this Report.
Council, which has been in operation since 1996 and provides a forum for exchanging information and engaging in consultation on The Companys ordinary shares can be traded through most the Groups performance and plans, and relevant transnational issues.
banks, building societies, stockbrokers or share shops in the UK At the date of this Report there are 18 employee representatives on and, in addition, Capita Registrars provides a share dealing service the Compass European Council from eight countries.
maximum deal size 25,000 which is available to shareholders who live in the UK.
This is a simple and convenient way to buy and sell Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join either the shares over the telephone and on the Internet without the need to Companys defined contribution scheme CRISP or the Companys pre-register and complete application forms.
To use this service stakeholder pension arrangement.
However, those UK employees either log on to www.
com or call Freephone 0800 280 who transfer from the public sector under the Transfer of Undertakings 2545 Monday to Friday between 8.00 a. m. and 4.30 p. m.. Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 will be eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit Further general shareholder information is set out on pages 125 to arrangement which is otherwise closed to new entrants.
CRISP has a 126 or on the Companys website at www.
The Chairman, Tony Allen, is independent.
The other five trustee directors are UK-based employees of the Group, two of CREST whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
The Plan has a The Companys ordinary shares and Sterling Eurobonds are in corporate trustee.
The Chairman, Peter Morriss, is independent.
CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
There are a further seven trustee directors and they are UK-based employees or former employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by Plan members.
The other main UK pension Auditors arrangement, the Compass Pension Scheme the Scheme is a Deloitte LLP are willing to continue as auditors of the Company closed defined benefit scheme.
As with the Plan and CRISP, the and Resolution 8 in the Notice of Meeting concerning their Scheme has a corporate trustee.
The Chairman, David Bishop, re-appointment and Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting concerning is independent.
The remaining six trustee directors are UK-based the determination of their remuneration are to be proposed at the employees or former employees of the Group, three of whom have Annual General Meeting.
The directors confirm that, so far as they been nominated by Scheme members.
Permanent employees are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which outside of the UK are usually offered membership of local pension Deloitte LLP are unaware and each director has taken all the steps arrangements if and where they exist or limited global arrangements that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware of any where it is appropriate to have company sponsored arrangements.
relevant audit information and to establish that Deloitte LLP are aware of that information.
Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on the local environment, such as private medical cover.
Priority is given to the training of employees and the development of their skills is of prime Annual General Meeting importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the function at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 February 2010, required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the together with explanatory notes, is set out on pages 127 to 136 of function required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee this Annual Report and is also available on the Companys website at becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues to operate on a highly decentralised basis.
This provides the maximum encouragement for the development of On behalf of the Board entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
Mark J White General Counsel and Company Secretary Creditor payment policy 25 November 2009 All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments Compass Group PLC are made within such agreed terms and conditions.
The amount Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 51
