Shareholder information Resolution 14 Appendix The Company is seeking the approval of shareholders for a new Summary of the principal features of The Compass Group PLC discretionary share option plan to attract and motivate senior Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 the LTIP executives.
Directors will not be eligible to participate.
It is not intended to seek HM Revenue & Customs approval.
1 Eligibility The plan is discretionary and participation will be available to full-time The principal features of the plan are summarised in the appendix employees of the Group, including executive directors, who are not to this document.
within six months of their expected normal retirement date.
Resolution 15 2 Performance conditions It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
However, 50% of any LTIP award will be based on Group Free Cash Flow it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the GFCF over a three-year performance period and 50% on the Company and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR over the same period broad scope of the provisions controlling political donations and relative to the companies comprising the TSR comparator group expenditure in the CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under at the start of the performance period.
The precise GFCF target the CA 2006 must first be approved by shareholders and will be for each award will be linked to the Groups wider business targets disclosed in next years annual report.
This Resolution, if passed, will and will be set by the Remuneration Committee of the Board the renew the directors authority until the AGM to be held in 2011 when Committee at the time of award based on Group projections and the directors intend to renew this authority to make donations and market expectations.
incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate amount of 125,000 for the No shares will vest unless the Group achieves threshold performance.
Company and for subsidiary companies.
25% of the portion of the award based on GFCF will vest on the achievement of threshold performance.
Awards will vest on a Resolution 16 straight-line basis between 25% and 100% where GFCF is between The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than threshold and maximum performance.
annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with its Articles of Association.
However, the Companies Shareholders TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid Rights Regulations 2009 the Regulations, which came into force assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares on 3 August 2009, increased the required notice period for general during the three-year performance period.
100% of the portion of meetings to 21 days, which overrides the authority provided for in the award based on TSR will vest if performance is in the top quartile the Articles of Association.
The Company is able to preserve the and 25% of the award will vest if performance is at the median.
authority to call general meetings on 14 days notice, provided Where performance is between the median and top quartile, awards shareholders have approved this by passing a resolution annually will vest on a straight-line basis between the median and top quartile.
at each AGM and the Company has met the requirements for No shares will be released if the Companys TSR performance is electronic voting under the Regulations.
The Directors consider that each of the resolutions is in the best The Committee must also be satisfied that the underlying financial interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, performance of the Company justifies the vesting of an award.
accordingly, recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own Calculations of the achievement of the targets will be independently beneficial holdings of ordinary shares.
performed and approved by the Committee.
3 Timing and basis of awards Awards may be made within the period of 42 days commencing on the date of approval of the LTIP by shareholders or the day following the announcement of the annual or half-year results of the Company in any year.
Awards may also be made at any other time when in the opinion of the Committee circumstances are considered to be exceptional so as to justify the making of an award.
Awards will be made for no monetary consideration and will be determined by reference to a participants base salary and the Companys share price on the day prior to the date on which an award is made.
Benefits under the LTIP will not be pensionable.
No award may be made more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the LTIP and the Committee will formally review the LTIP by no later than February 2015.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 131 Shareholder information Notice of meeting 4 Limits on participation 9 Recoupment The annual limit for the value of shares over which an award may In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by a participant which be made under the LTIP is 200% of base salary.
contributes to an error in financial information that materially affects the Companys share value, the Company will be entitled to recover 5 Dilution limits the value of any shares released such value being determined by The LTIP will operate within the limits recommended by the reference to the market value at the date of vesting or the payment Association of British Insurers in respect of awards settled by the of cash equivalents under the LTIP.
issue of new shares or transfer of treasury shares.
10 Variation in share capital In any 10 year period, not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share The Committee may make such adjustments to awards as it capital of the Company may be issued under the LTIP and all other considers appropriate in the event of any variation in the share capital discretionary employees share plans, and not more than 10% may of the Company.
be issued under the LTIP and all other employees share schemes operated by the Company.
These limits do not include awards which 11 Amendments have lapsed.
The Committee may amend the LTIP as it considers appropriate.
However, shareholder approval is required to amend any provision 6 Vesting and lapse of awards to the advantage of participants relating to eligibility, dilution limits, At the end of the three-year performance period, once the the terms of vesting, the rights attaching to the shares acquired Committee has determined the extent to which awards under the under the LTIP, or to the adjustment of awards.
Shareholder approval LTIP have vested, awards will be released within 45 days.
Awards is not required for minor amendments to benefit the administration may be satisfied in new issue shares, purchased shares, treasury of the LTIP, or to take account of changes in legislation or to obtain shares or, if required for example, because of securities laws, or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment in cash at the discretion of the Committee at any time up to the for participants or the Company.
If satisfaction is by way of cash, such amount is determined by reference to the Companys share price on the Summary of the principal features of The Compass Group vesting date.
Share Option Plan 2010 the Share Option Plan 7 Early vesting 1 Eligibility If a participant ceases to be an employee in certain circumstances, The Share Option Plan is discretionary and participation will be including injury, ill-health, disability or redundancy, any unvested available to full-time employees of the Group, save that no executive award will lapse unless the Committee otherwise determines in its directors may participate.
absolute discretion, in which case it shall permit awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to the 2 Performance conditions achievement of the performance condition.
If a participant ceases to Options will be exercisable in full or part subject to the achievement be an employee by reason of contractual or agreed early retirement, of Group Free Cash Flow GFCF performance targets over a threeany unvested award will continue until the normal vesting date and year performance period commencing at the start of the financial be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance condition.
year in which the option is granted.
Such targets will be determined In the aforementioned circumstances, any shares vesting will be by the Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee at reduced on a time-apportioned basis unless otherwise determined the time of grant.
In the event of the death of a participant during the performance period, such award will immediately vest, subject 25% of options will be exercisable on the achievement of a threshold to the satisfaction of the performance condition at that date and target and 100% on achievement of a maximum target.
Options to reduction on a time-apportioned basis, unless the Committee will be exercisable on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% decides otherwise.
where the GFCF is between the threshold cash flow target and the maximum cash flow target respectively.
8 Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company, any unvested The Committee must also be satisfied that the underlying financial awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance performance of the Company justifies an option becoming capable conditions as at the date of completion of the change of control and of exercise.
subject to reduction on a time-apportionment basis.
In the event of an internal reorganisation, an award will normally be released and No options will be exercisable if the threshold target is not met.
replaced by a new award which will continue to be governed under the rules of the LTIP.
132 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Shareholder information 3 Option grants and price 7 Net settlement Options may be granted within the period of 42 days commencing The Committee may determine that, in substitution for the right to on the date of approval of the Share Option Plan by shareholders or acquire shares on exercise, a holder may be issued shares or paid a the day following the announcement of the annual or half-year results cash sum equal to the settlement value of the option, determined by of the Company in any year.
Grants may also be made at any other reference to the Companys share price on the previous business day.
time when, in the opinion of the Committee, circumstances are considered to be exceptional so as to justify such grant.
8 Change of control Options will normally become exercisable on a change of control The option price must not be less than the market value at the time of the Company, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions of grant, which may be the share price on the business day before as at the date of the transaction and subject to reduction on a timethe date of grant, the date of grant, or the average price over the apportionment basis unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In the event of an internal reorganisation, options will normally be released and replaced by new options which will continue to be Options are not pensionable.
No grant may be made more than governed under the rules of the Share Option Plan, provided that 10 years after the date of adoption of the Share Option Plan and the Committee is satisfied that its underlying financial performance the Committee will formally review the Share Option Plan by no later justifies this.
9 Recoupment 4 Limits on participation In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by an option holder Each individuals annual participation will be limited so that the which contributes to an error in financial information that materially aggregate price payable on the exercise of options or the value of affects the Companys share value, the Company will be entitled any other executive share award will not exceed 200% of base salary.
to recover the value of any shares issued pursuant to the exercise of an option, or any net settlement made under the terms of the 5 Dilution limits Share Option Plan.
No options may be granted under the Share Option Plan which would, at the time of grant, cause the number of shares which may 10 Variation in share capital have been or may be issued in pursuance of options granted under The Committee may make such adjustments to Options as it all share option plans established by the Company to exceed 10% considers appropriate in the event of any variation in the share capital of the Companys issued ordinary share capital or 5% of such capital of the Company.
if only options granted under discretionary share schemes are taken into account in relation to options granted in the 10 years ending 11 Amendments with the date of grant of the option.
Options which have lapsed are The provisions governing eligibility requirements, participation limits, not included.
Where options granted under the Share Option Plan equity dilution, the terms of exercise, the rights attaching to the will, on exercise, be satisfied by a transfer of existing shares shares acquired under the Share Option Plan, or to the adjustment of purchased on the market but not treasury shares, these limits options cannot be altered to the advantage of option holders without will not apply.
the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Shareholder approval is not required for minor amendments to benefit the 6 Exercise of options administration of the Share Option Plan, or to take account of changes Options will normally be exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control performance condition, between three and 10 years after grant, or regulatory treatment for participants or the Company.
at the end of which they will lapse.
In certain circumstances, early exercise of options is permitted.
Copies of the draft rules of both new plans may be inspected during normal business hours at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus If an option holder ceases to be an employee through injury, ill-health, Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS and at the disability, contractual or agreed early retirement, redundancy or his registered office of the Company and will also be made available employing company or business ceasing to be part of the Group, at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the any options which are not capable of exercise at the date of leaving continuance of the Meeting.
will lapse, unless the Committee otherwise determines in its absolute discretion, in which case it shall permit options to continue until their third anniversary and be exercisable for a period of six months, subject to the achievement of the performance condition, and prorated to the holders employment term.
In the event of the death of an option holder, any option capable of exercise at the date of death may be exercised by his personal representatives within the following 12-month period.
Any option not capable of exercise at the date of death will lapse immediately, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in which case it may be exercised within a 12-month period as before.
If employment is terminated for other reasons, options will normally lapse.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 133
