Shareholder information Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held in the This document is important and Fleming Room at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on requires your immediate attention.
Friday, 5 February 2010 at 11.00 a. m. in order to transact If you are in any doubt as to the the following business: action you should take, you should To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, immediately consult your stockbroker, of which Resolutions 11, 12 and 16 will be proposed as special bank manager, solicitor, accountant resolutions and all other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary or other independent financial advisor resolutions.
authorised under the Financial Resolution 1 Report and Accounts Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you That the Directors Annual Report and Accounts and the auditors have sold or otherwise transferred all report thereon for the financial year ended 30 September 2009 be received and adopted.
your shares in Compass Group PLC, please send this Notice and the Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration report accompanying documents to the That the Directors Remuneration report for the financial year ended 30 September 2009 be received and adopted.
purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent Resolution 3 Final dividend through whom the sale or transfer To declare a final dividend of 8.8 pence per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2009. was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Resolution 4 Don Robert That Don Robert be elected as a director of the Company.
Resolution 5 Gary Green That Gary Green be re-elected as a director of the Company.
Resolution 6 Sir Ian Robinson That Sir Ian Robinson be re-elected as a director of the Company.
Resolution 7 Steve Lucas That Steve Lucas be re-elected as a director of the Company.
Resolution 8 Deloitte LLP That the auditors, Deloitte LLP, be re-appointed as the Companys auditors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Resolution 9 Auditors remuneration That the directors be authorised to agree the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares That the power conferred on the directors by Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for a period expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 4 May 2011 and, for that period the section 551 amount shall be 61,800,000 and, in addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased by 61,800,000, provided that the directors power in respect of such latter amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: i to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and that the directors may impose any limits or restriction and make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 127
