Consolidated financial statements If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying L Tax amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other recognised in the income statement except where it relates to items assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of taken directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Any impairment is immediately recognised in the income statement and an impairment loss recognised for Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss profits will be available against which deductible temporary on disposal.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from Other intangible assets the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, if assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at fair profit nor the accounting profit.
value as at the date of the acquisition.
Internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary basis on assets over their expected useful lives.
Intangible assets differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, include client investments.
and interest in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that The following rates applied for the Group: the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Contract-related intangible assets: the life of the contract: and Computer software: 6% to 33% per annum.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer The typical life of contract-related intangibles is 220 years.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Contract related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a business are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply contract.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
share exclude the amortisation of contract related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when relevant to the underlying trading performance of the Group.
they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
N Property, plant and equipment All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are M Intangible assets indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment Goodwill assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the recognised impairment in value.
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the anticipated or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually useful lives of the assets.
for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The following rates applied for the Group: Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGU for the purpose Freehold buildings and long-term leasehold property: of impairment testing.
A CGU is identified at the lowest aggregation 2% per annum: of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows, and that Short-term leasehold property: the life of the lease: which is looked at by management for monitoring and managing the Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum: and business.
This is generally the total business for a country.
However, Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum.
in some instances, where there are distinct separately managed business activities within a country, particularly if they fall within When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and different secondary business segments, the CGU is identified at this the carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the income lower level.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 67
