Consolidated financial statements 37 Details of principal subsidiary companies All companies listed below are wholly owned by the Group, except where otherwise indicated.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital.
All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation.
A full list of the Groups operating subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return.
Country of Principal subsidiaries incorporation Principal activities North America Compass Group Canada Ltd Canada Foodservice and support services Bon Apptit Management Co USA Foodservice Compass Group USA Investments, Inc USA Holding company Compass Group USA, Inc USA Foodservice and support services Crothall Services Group USA Support services to the healthcare market Flik International Corp USA Fine dining facilities 1 Foodbuy LLC USA Purchasing services in North America Levy Restaurants LP USA Fine dining and foodservice at sports and entertainment facilities Morrison Management Specialists, Inc USA Foodservice to the healthcare and senior living market Restaurant Associates Corp USA Fine dining facilities 2 Wolfgang Puck Catering & Events, LLC 90% USA Fine dining facilities Continental Europe Compass Group France Holdings SAS France Holding company Compass Group France France Foodservice and support services Compass Group Deutschland GmbH Germany Holding company Medirest GmbH & Co OHG Germany Foodservice to the healthcare and senior living market Eurest Deutschland GmbH Germany Foodservice to business and industry Eurest Services GmbH Germany Support services to business and industry Eurest Sports & Food GmbH Germany Foodservice to the sports and leisure market 3,4 Compass Group Italia S. P. A Italy Foodservice, support services and prepaid meal vouchers Compass Group International BV Netherlands Holding company Compass Group Nederland BV Netherlands Foodservice and support services Compass Group Nederland Holding BV Netherlands Holding company Eurest Services BV Netherlands Foodservice and support services Compass Group Holdings Spain, S. L. Spain Holding company Eurest Colectividades S. L. Spain Foodservice and support services Compass Group Schweiz AG Switzerland Foodservice and support services Restorama AG Switzerland Foodservice United Kingdom Compass Contract Services UK Ltd England & Wales Foodservice and support services Compass Group Holdings PLC England & Wales Holding company and corporate activities Compass Group, UK & Ireland Ltd England & Wales Holding company Compass International Purchasing Ltd England & Wales Purchasing services throughout the world Compass Purchasing Ltd England & Wales Purchasing services in the UK and Ireland Compass Services UK Ltd England & Wales Foodservice and support services 5 Hospitality Holdings Ltd England & Wales Intermediate holding company Letheby & Christopher Ltd England & Wales Foodservice for the UK sports and events business Scolarest Ltd England & Wales Foodservice for the UK education market Rest of the World Compass Group Australia Pty Ltd Australia Foodservice and support services GR SA Brazil Foodservice and support services 6 Seiyo Food Compass Group, Inc Japan Foodservice and support services Compass Group Southern Africa Pty Ltd 70% South Africa Foodservice and support services 1 The Group acquired the remaining 36% interest in Foodbuy LLC during the year 2008: 64%.
2 The Group acquired a further 41% in Wolfgang Puck Catering and Events, LLC during the year 2008: 49%.
3 Formerly known as Onama S. P. A.
4 Palmar S. P. A and Lunchtime S. P. A were merged into Compass Group Italia S. P. A during the year.
5 Held directly by the Parent Company.
6 The Group acquired the remaining 5% shareholding in Seiyo Food Compass Group, Inc during the year 2008: 95%.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 117
