Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2009 Adjustments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting and translated at the closing rate.
policies used in line with those used by the Group.
G Revenue Acquisitions and disposals Revenue is recognised in the period in which services are provided The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures acquired in accordance with the terms of the contractual relationships with or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated third parties.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
course of business, excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
Intra-group transactions All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Management fee contracts eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts Revenue from management fee contracts comprises the total of sales with a joint venture of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated made to consumers, the subsidy charged to clients, together with to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
the management fee charged to clients.
E Acquisitions Fixed price contracts The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised in proportion method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the to the volume of services that the Group is contracted to supply in fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred each period.
or assumed, and equity instruments issued plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Inter-segment transactions There is little or no intra-group trading between the reported business Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities segments.
Where such trading does take place it is on similar terms assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, and conditions to those available to third parties.
except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value less H Rebates and other amounts received costs to sell.
from suppliers The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include agreed net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as discounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume-related rebates.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised Income from value and volume-related rebates is recognised based directly in the income statement.
on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
F Foreign currency Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds statement as the goods are consumed.
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Rebates relating to items purchased but still held at the balance sheet In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within date are deducted from the carrying value of these items so that the the Group, transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates on the from the costs capitalised.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, except for where I Borrowing costs they arise on items taken directly to equity, in which case they are also recognised in equity.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Group enters into forward contracts see section Q below for the J Operating profit Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative financial Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates, instruments.
investment revenue and finance costs.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the K Exceptional items currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, material items of income or expense that have been shown separately are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
66 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
