Shareholder information General shareholder information that an electronic transmission is not successfully transmitted, a Registrars and transfer office paper notification will be sent to the shareholder at their registered All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings should address.
Shareholders wishing to continue to receive shareholder be directed to Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, information in the traditional paper format should take no action, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA, telephone within the UK: or may confirm this via the www.
Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
Cash dividends Shareholders can register online to view their Compass Group PLC Holders of ordinary shares can have cash dividends paid in the form shareholding details using the Share Portal, a service offered of a cheque.
UK resident ordinary shareholders can instead have by Capita Registrars.
This service can be accessed at their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account.
Shareholders registering for the Ordinary shareholders resident outside the UK can also have their Share Portal will require their investor code which is shown on share dividends paid into their bank account directly via the Companys certificates and on the Form of Proxy accompanying this Report.
Details and terms and The service enables shareholders to do all of the following: conditions may be viewed at www.
check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours a day: Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP register their email and mailing preference post or electronic for The Company has introduced a DRIP service, provided by Capita future shareholder mailings: IRG Trustees Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to gain easy access to a variety of shareholder information including use the whole of their cash dividend to buy additional shares in indicative valuation and payment instruction details: and the Company, increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, use the Internet to appoint a proxy to attend general meetings including details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the of Compass Group PLC.
com and from Capita IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the UK: Freephone Published information 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual Report in an shares@capitaregistrars.
alternative format such as large print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey in respect of the 2009 final dividend is 4 February 2010.
Share price information Electronic communications The current price of the Companys shares is available on the The Company can, at shareholders request, send shareholders Companys website at www.
an email notification each time a new shareholder report or other shareholder communication is placed on its website.
This enables The Companys share price is also available from the voice activated shareholders to read and or download the information at their leisure.
FT Cityline service, telephone within the UK: 0905 8171 690.
Calls Shareholders can still request paper copies of the documents if they will be charged at 75 pence per minute at all times from a BT so wish.
Average call duration will be one minute for one stock quote.
The cost from other networks and mobile phones may be higher.
To encourage shareholders to convert to e-communications, the Company will arrange for a tree to be planted in the UK for each Share dealing shareholder who chooses to receive all future communications The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building electronically.
There are no particular software requirements to societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
Also, the Companys view these documents, other than those described and available Registrars, Capita Registrars, offer online and telephone dealing on our website at www.
services to buy or sell Compass Group PLC shares.
Full details can be obtained from www.
com or by telephoning Freephone The provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders 0800 280 2545.
The service is only available to personal electronically does not discriminate between registered shareholders shareholders aged 18 and over resident in the UK.
The facility is available to all registered shareholders on equal terms and participation is made as simple as possible.
Please note that it is the shareholders responsibility to ShareGift notify our Registrars through www.
com or by post ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service of any change to their email address.
Before electing for electronic for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It is communication, shareholders should ensure that they have the particularly useful for those shareholders who may wish to dispose appropriate computer capabilities.
The Company takes all reasonable of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any communication uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can it sends out, but cannot accept any responsibility for loss or damage be obtained from ShareGift telephone within the UK: 020 7930 3737 arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the and from overseas 44 20 7930 3737 or www.
org or from Company and recommends that shareholders subject all messages the Registrars.
to virus checking procedures prior to use.
Please note that any electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or the Registrar containing a computer virus will not be accepted.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs Information about the Companys ADR programme is available on The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic the Companys website at www.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in transmission beyond its control.
In the event that the Company becomes aware Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 125 Shareholder information General shareholder information Warning about unsolicited investment Key committee membership contacts Audit Committee Steve Lucas Chairman Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Tim Parker received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning Don Robert investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based Sir Ian Robinson brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Corporate Responsibility Committee These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These Susan Murray Chairman brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a Sir Roy Gardner 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported Richard Cousins that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
Jane Kingston Steve Lucas More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found Andrew Martin on the FSA website at www.
uk and on Mark White the Companys website at www.
Nomination Committee Unsolicited mail Sir Roy Gardner Chairman Richard Cousins The Company is legally obliged to make its Register of Members Sir James Crosby available, subject to a proper purpose test, to the public.
As a Susan Murray consequence of this, some shareholders might receive unsolicited Don Robert mail.
UK shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such Sir Ian Robinson mail should refer to the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
Remuneration Committee Sir James Crosby Chairman Identity theft protecting an investment Steve Lucas Criminals may steal shareholders personal information putting Susan Murray a holding at risk.
Advice on protecting a shareholding is available Tim Parker on the Companys website at www.
Financial calendar Directors Annual General Meeting: Chairman 5 February 2010 Sir Roy Gardner Results announcements: Executive directors Half year May Group Chief Executive Full year November Richard Cousins Dividend payments: Group Finance Director Interim August Andrew Martin Final March Expected Group Managing Director USA, Canada and Mexico Gary Green Non-executive directors Sir James Crosby Senior independent director Steve Lucas Susan Murray Tim Parker Don Robert Sir Ian Robinson General Counsel and Company Secretary Mark White 126 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
