Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2009 The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies O Assets held for sale approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk sale if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met instruments for speculative purposes.
only when the sale is highly probable, management is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar from the date of classification.
These assets are measured at the maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
by reference to market values for similar instruments.
P Inventories For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where Cost is calculated using either the weighted average price or the they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either first in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course or liability or a forecasted transaction.
of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which meet the Q Financial instruments conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities, including hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the derivative financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing are translated into Sterling at period-end exchange rates.
Gains and financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and losses are dealt with through the income statement, unless hedge loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment Cash and cash equivalents to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk for Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and interest-bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs designates these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method, In relation to cash flow hedges forward foreign exchange contracts unless included in a fair value hedge.
to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument Equity instruments that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an Liabilities in respect of option agreements asset or liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, Option agreements that allow minority shareholders to require the the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised Group to purchase the minority interest are treated as derivatives in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition over equity instruments.
These are recorded in the balance sheet cost of other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other at fair value which is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity is based on the present value of expected cash outflows.
The are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which movement in fair value is recognised as income or expense within the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for the income statement.
example when the future sale actually occurs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument value on the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for subsequent reporting dates.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
68 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
