Governance Directors remuneration report including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 30 September 2009 The Board presents its Remuneration report, which has been Advisors to the committee prepared on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee The committee has access to detailed external information and the committee and in accordance with the requirements of the research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
Shareholders will be invited to During the year  LLP who also provide approve the Report at the Annual General Meeting on 5 February expatriate assignment advice was engaged by the committee to 2010.
The Report covers the following matters: advise on the design of incentive arrangements and general human resource and compensation related matters.
Alithos Limited provided executive remuneration policy for the year ended 30 September information for the testing of the total shareholder return performance 2009 and the intended policy for the year ending 30 September conditions for the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
2010: and directors remuneration, incentive plan participation and pension The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive together with Jane provision.
Kingston, the Group Human Resources Director, and David Walker, Director of Group Reward, are normally invited to attend each With the exception of the annual performance-related award, service committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the agreement details, the first shareholder return graph on page 56, committee other than in respect of their own remuneration.
disclosure of remuneration to other senior executives and external directorships, the information set out on pages 52 to 58 of this Report represents the auditable disclosures referred to in the Summary of activity during the year Auditors report on page 60 as specified by the UK Listing Authority During the year the committee conducted its annual review of and under Regulation 11 of and Schedule 8 to the Large and remuneration philosophy and reviewed the Companys remuneration Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports practice to ensure that the overall remuneration structure continues Regulations 2008. to promote the Companys business strategy.
The performance targets of all the Companys share plans were reviewed, as was the Role of the committee headroom available in issued share capital before each grant was made.
The committee also reconfirmed that no bonus matching The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy and the awards or share option grants would be made to executive directors committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by without seeking shareholder approval.
the Board, for determining specific remuneration packages and the terms and conditions of employment for the members of the During the year, the committee formally reviewed the LTIP and Executive Committee, which comprises the executive directors and Management Share Option Plan MSOP which are due to end in other senior executives.
The committee ensures that the members July 2010 and February 2012 respectively.
The Company proposes of the Executive Committee are provided with the appropriate to replace the LTIP and MSOP and details of the principal terms and incentives to enhance the Groups performance and to reward conditions of the replacement plans can be found in the Notice of them for their personal contribution to the success of the business.
Annual General Meeting on pages 131 to 133.
The structure, shape The committee reviews the remuneration arrangements for Group and quantum of any future awards under the proposed new rules employees whose salaries exceed a specified level and administers will remain broadly similar to those under the existing rules.
Any the Companys share incentive plans.
The committee also proposed amendments have been drafted to take account of current determines the Chairmans remuneration although the Board itself governance and shareholder guidelines.
determines the level of fees paid to the non-executive directors.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
Directors are not eligible to receive grants under the current MSOP and this principle will also apply to the proposed new plan.
The committee also maintains an active dialogue with shareholder representatives and its full terms of reference are set out on the Companys website at www.
Remuneration policy and components The committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy Membership of the committee and structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework remains effective in supporting the Companys business objectives, The committee consists entirely of independent non-executive in line with best practice, and fairly rewards individuals for the directors as defined in the Code.
During the year the committee contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the size comprised the following non-executive directors: and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and attract employees of the highest calibre.
Sir James Crosby Chairman, senior independent non-executive director The committee intends that base salary and total remuneration of Sven Kado to 5 February 2009 executive directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration Steve Lucas is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a Susan Murray from 21 July 2009 suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly Tim Parker from 1 November 2008 above nor below the median for each element of remuneration.
The committee also considers general pay and employment conditions of Biographical details of the current members of the committee are all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing set out on page 42.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary market conditions, and to governance trends when assessing the acts as the secretary to the committee.
The committee met on four level of salaries and remuneration packages of executive directors occasions during the year.
Attendance details are shown on page 49. and other members of the Executive Committee.
Percentage increases to basic salary awards for executive directors and other Non-executive directors who are not members of the committee members of the Executive Committee during the year ended are entitled to receive the papers discussed at meetings and 30 September 2009 were in line with those awarded to other the minutes.
employees in the Group working in the same country in that period.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
