Shareholder information Notice of meeting iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Important information Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 CA 2006, the Company Proxies and corporate representatives specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the 2010 AGM may of Members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 3 February appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of the 2010, or in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, in the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in proxy must be appointed for different shares.
respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members Proxies may only be appointed by: after 6.00 p. m. on 3 February 2010 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining with this Notice to PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
com and following the Nominated persons instructions for electronic submission provided there: or Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you nominated under section 146 CA 2006 to enjoy information rights are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him or members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have website www.
com CREST for further information.
a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy Return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude a shareholder from appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, if you do under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be treated as shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders to The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the register the appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to to submit their voting directions electronically.
You may not use Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only any electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
communicate with the Company for any other purposes other than those expressly stated.
AGM business Under section 319A CA 2006, shareholders have the right to ask ii To be effective the Form of Proxy must be completed in questions at the AGM relating to the business of the meeting and accordance with the instructions and received by the Registrars for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere of the Company by 11.00 a. m. on Wednesday 3 February 2010. unduly with the business of the meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential information, if the answer has already been published To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously on the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message Company or the good order of the meeting that the question must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11.00 a. m. be answered.
Please note, however, that proxy messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, Under section 338A CA 2006, shareholders may request the bank holidays or after 8.00 p. m. on any other day.
For the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at annual purpose of this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to general meetings any matter other than a proposed resolution be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the which may be properly included in the business, provided that it message by the CREST Applications Host from which the is not defamatory, frivolous or vexatious.
The Company will include issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal such matter if sufficient requests have been received in accordance members or other CREST sponsored members and those with section 338A 3 CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a minimum CREST members that have appointed voting service provider s of 100 shareholders holding an average 1,000 ordinary shares each should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys issued share for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
capital to make the request, and submitted in the manner detailed in section 338A CA 2006.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
134 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 C CG6974 AR p59 p136.
