Consolidated financial statements Share-based payments R Leases The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the requirements lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the Group has applied IFRS 2 to to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
all equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that were invested at 1 January 2005.
Equity-settled share-based Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the vesting conditions.
remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or BlackScholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on a The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to enter managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion S Provisions of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be Holiday pay required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an employee directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and benefit and are charged to the income statement as the benefits are are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair value of holidays earned but not taken.
T Employee benefits Pension obligations Payments made to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense when they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension scheme.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide other post-employment benefits.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using a similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 69
