Parent Company financial statements Parent Company accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2009 Introduction G Derivatives and other financial instruments The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below: The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
A Accounting convention and basis Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company and Group of preparation policy is disclosed in the accounting policies to the consolidated These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with financial statements.
applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006 using the historical cost convention H Dividends modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the year in which they are approved in general meeting by B Exemptions the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass when paid.
Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2009.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies I Deferred tax Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on timing differences from presenting a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 arising from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in Cash Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the tax computations in periods different from those in which they terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are transactions with other members of Compass Group.
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2009 contain financial instrument J Share-based payments disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Disclosures.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non instrument disclosures for the Company.
market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based C Change in accounting policies payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will first time in the year ended 30 September 2009. eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
D Investments in subsidiary undertakings Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each In the opinion of the directors the value of such investments are scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
E Foreign currency For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period.
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition F Borrowings to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
For details of the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction charge see note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 121
