46 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2009 1.
General information Aegis Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered of ce is given on page 22.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 4 and in the Directors report on pages 24 to 26.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
Basis of preparation The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting for the reasons set out in the Directors report on page 26.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below in Note 3.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the year: IFRS for small and medium-sized entities IFRS 1 amended Additional exemptions for first-time adopters and improved structure IFRS 2 amended Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 24 revised Related Party Transactions IAS 32 Classi cation of rights issues IAS 39 amended Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
In addition, IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations and IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements become effective for the Group from 1 January 2010.
Adoption of these standards will impact any business combinations completed after 1 January 2010.
For any such business combinations: All acquisition-related costs must be expensed as they are incurred.
Contingent consideration must be measured at fair value at the acquisition date and form part of the total consideration.
Subsequent changes in fair value must be recognised in pro t or loss as they arise.
Where step acquisitions occur, the equity holding at the date on which control is achieved must be re-measured to its fair value at that date, with the difference between carrying value and fair value recognised in pro t or loss.
Transactions between equity holders, including increases or decreases in ownership that do not result in a change of control, are reported within equity with no impact on pro t or loss.
These standards apply prospectively and therefore have no impact on acquisitions completed by the Group prior to 1 January 2010.
The expected impact on the Groups financial statements cannot be estimated as this will depend on the terms of any business combinations that may arise after 1 January 2010.
Adoption of standards In the current financial year, the Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standard 8 Operating Segments and International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007, which have resulted in presentational changes to the 2009 Annual Report.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reports about the components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision-maker, which in the case of Aegis Group plc is the Group Chief Executive Of cer, to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
In contrast, the predecessor standard IAS 14 Segmental Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments business and geographical, using a risks and rewards approach, with the Groups system of internal financial reporting to key management personnel serving only as the starting point for the identi cation of such segments.
As a result, segmental information is presented in accordance with IFRS 8 within Note 4.
The comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
Basis of preparation continued IAS 1 revised requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
A consolidated statement of changes in equity has been included in the primary statements, showing changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
In addition, due to reclassi cations discussed below, IAS 1 revised requires that two comparative years be provided in the balance sheet and related notes.
Reclassi cation of exchange movements on nancing items The Group has reclassi ed foreign exchange gains relating to nancing items from operating pro t to net finance costs to more appropriately re ect the nature of such items.
Net foreign exchange gains of 8.4m have been reclassi ed from operating expenses to net finance costs in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
There is no impact on pre-tax pro t or earnings per share.
As a result of this change in presentation, a new line has been added to the Finance Costs note Note 9 : Exchange movements on nancing items.
This line includes the impact of foreign exchange on nancing balances net of any movements on forward foreign exchange contracts taken out as economic hedges of such balances.
Reclassi cation in the 2008 balance sheet The balance sheet comparatives for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 have been restated to reclassify certain provisions from non-current liabilities to current liabilities and to reclassify the put option liability from trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities for the current and non-current portions respectively to current and non-current derivative liabilities to re ect the classi cation of these liabilities under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In addition, the equity reserve for the potential acquisition of minority interest, which arises on liabilities of the Group to minority shareholders, is reclassi ed within equity attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Underlying pro t The Group believes that underlying results Note 4 and underlying earnings per share Note 12 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term underlying is not a fide ned term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled pro t measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of pro t. In the opinion of the directors, the principal adjustments made are in respect of items which are signi cant by nature or amount, and may include impairment charges, pro ts and losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets being amortisation charged on separately identi able intangible assets in acquired businesses, unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and any related tax thereon, as appropriate.
Adjusting items may also include speci c tax items such as the bene t arising on the reduction of certain tax liabilities in a particular half year period and deferred tax liabilities for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Accounting policies Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the periods presented in this Annual Report.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results, cash ows and net assets of Aegis Group plc and the entities controlled by it its subsidiaries after eliminating internal transactions and recognising any minority interests in those entities drawn up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic bene ts from its activities.
Where subsidiaries are acquired or disposed of in the year, their results and cash ows are included from the date of acquisition or up to the disposal date.
Where a consolidated company is less than 100% owned by the Group, the minority interest share of the results and net assets are recognised at each reporting date.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of combination.
Where a company has net liabilities, no asset is recorded within minority interests unless the minority shareholder has an obligation to make good its share of the net liabilities.
A list of the signi cant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in the notes to the Companys separate financial statements.
The companies listed immediately below are included in the consolidated financial statements of Aegis Group plc: as such we apply Section 264b HGB of the German Commercial Code.
Aegis Media GmbH & Co. KG, Central Services, Wiesbaden CARAT Wiesbaden GmbH & Co. KG Media-Service, Wiesbaden HMS GmbH & Co. KG Media-Service, Wiesbaden CARAT Hamburg GmbH & Co. KG.
Media-Service, Hamburg 21 TwentyOne GmbH & Co. KG Markenberatung, Frankfurt Mediaagentur Dr. Pichutta GmbH & Co. KG, Wiesbaden Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 48 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued b Associates Associated companies are entities in which the Group has a participating interest, over whose operating and financial policies it exercises a signi cant in uence and which are neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
The reporting dates and accounting policies used by its associates are the same as those used by the Group.
The Groups associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identi able net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill within the associates carrying amount.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses and any impairment of goodwill is recognised in the income statement and as a movement in the Groups share of associates net assets in the balance sheet.
Its share of any post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised directly in equity.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, pro ts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are investments over which the Group exercises joint control with a third party.
Such investments are equity accounted for, using the same method of equity accounting as described in associates above.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the criteria for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in pro t or loss.
The interests of minority shareholders in the acquiree are initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at that date less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs expected to bene t from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
The Groups CGUs are given in Note 13.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the pro t or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent pro t or loss on disposal.
Deferred consideration on acquisitions is provided based on the Directors best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date.
The liability is discounted and an imputed interest charge is included in the income statement.
Changes to estimates of amounts payable are made to deferred consideration liability and goodwill.
Intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, using discounted cash ows.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development activities is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identi ed such as software and new processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic bene ts: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where these criteria are met, the development expenditure is capitalised at cost.
Where they are not met, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets both internally generated and separately acquired are amortised to residual values over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Software 20% to 50% per annum Customer relationships 20% per annum Panel costs 33% per annum Patents and trademarks Nil to 20% per annum Non-compete agreements 14% to 50% per annum Other 10% to 50% per annum Where an assets useful life is considered inde nite, an annual impairment test is performed see below.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of these assets to their residual value over their expected useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: Freehold buildings 1% to 5% per annum Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease Leasehold improvements 10% to 20% per annum or over the period of the lease, if shorter Of ce furniture, xtures, equipment and vehicles 10% to 50% per annum The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets both internally generated and separately acquired to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an inde nite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Work in progress Work in progress comprises directly attributable costs on incomplete market research projects and is held in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where leasehold properties remain unutilised by the Group and have not been sublet, provision is made in full for the outstanding rental payments together with other outgoings for the remaining period of the lease.
This provision takes into account any future sublet income reasonably expected to be obtained.
Future rental payments are charged against this provision in the period in which they are made.
From time to time the Group is exposed to claims which the Group vigorously defends.
Provision for costs is made when the likelihood of a case proceeding is adjudged as probable.
Disclosure is made of potentially material matters where, on the basis of legal advice, an adverse outcome cannot currently be judged as remote.
Turnover amounts invoiced to clients and revenue Turnover amounts invoiced to clients represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group on behalf of clients, together with fees invoiced for media and research services provided, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is the value of media and research fees and commission earned by the Group.
Media revenue arises in the form of fees and commissions for media services and performance related incentives.
Fee and commission revenue is recognised when earned, principally when advertisements appear in the media over the period of the relevant assignments or agreements.
Performance related income is recognised when it can be reliably estimated whether, and the extent to which, the performance criteria have been met.
For the market research business, revenue is recognised on the satisfactory completion of a speci c phase of a project.
Provision is made for losses on a project as soon as it becomes clear that a loss will arise.
Invoices raised during the course of a project are booked as deferred income on the balance sheet until such a time as the related revenue is recognised in the income statement.
Cost of media The direct cost of media bookings is the difference between turnover amounts invoiced to clients and revenue.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Investment income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Share-based payment transactions The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested as of 1 January 2005.
Certain employees receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, including shares or rights over shares.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the instruments concerned at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in pro t or loss such that the cumulative expense re ects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is re ected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Employee bene ts The retirement bene ts for employees are principally provided by fide ned contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
The amount charged to the income statement is the contribution payable in the year by Group companies.
In addition, the Group has a small number of other retirement bene t schemes, principally where required by statute in certain jurisdictions.
These schemes are not considered by management to represent standard fide ned contribution schemes and do not vary signi cantly in terms of the Groups liability.
However, IAS 19 requires that these schemes be disclosed as fide ned bene t schemes.
These schemes are fully funded.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned bene t obligations is the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost less the fair value of the plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The fide ned bene t obligation is calculated using the project unit credit method with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash out ows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds approximating to the terms of the related liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately outside the income statement and are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the bene ts are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts become vested.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are reported in Sterling, which is the functional currency of Aegis Group plc and the presentational currency for the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In Group companies, the term foreign currencies refers to currencies other than the entitys functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Upon settlement, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate ruling on the settlement date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are re-translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising upon re-translation at the settlement date or balance sheet date are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not re-translated.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in pro t or loss for the period except for differences arising on the re-translation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of foreign currency borrowings used to provide a hedge against foreign currency investments, including goodwill, are taken directly to reserves.
For consolidation purposes, the trading results and cash ows arising in operations with non-Sterling functional currencies are translated into Sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising upon consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
In the event of the disposal of an operation such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses.
Leased assets Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and bene ts of ownership of the asset are classi ed as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Accounting policies continued Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable pro t, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro ts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting pro t. Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations from the transition date of 1 January 2004 in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, including interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Financial assets Financial assets are accounted for on the trade date.
Financial assets principally include the following: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, highly liquid deposits with an original maturity of three months or less which are subject to an insigni cant risk of changes in value and bank overdrafts.
This classi cation is used only in the cash ow statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recorded at the invoiced value and subsequently reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest charge.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs, and at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the net pro t or loss for the period.
Impairment losses recognised in pro t or loss for equity instruments classi ed as available-for-sale are not subsequently reversed through pro t or loss.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVPTL Fair Value Through Pro t and Loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been impacted.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Trade payables Trade payables are initially stated at fair value and then at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely-related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
The Groups activities expose it to certain financial risks including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures where they are considered to be signi cant.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash ow hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged rm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Where such changes are intended to provide a natural hedge of a particular risk, the income statement classi cation re ects this.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in equity are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Note 20 includes further information on hedge accounting as applied by the Group.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements The Group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining minority stakes in its subsidiaries.
In accordance with IAS 39, put options are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded at fair value on initial recognition with a corresponding decrease in reserves.
Fair value is calculated based on the discounted value of expected future payments.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as movements in the income statement.
On exercise and settlement of a put option liability the cumulative amounts are removed from reserves, along with the derecognition of minority interests and the recognition of additional goodwill.
Equity instruments Ordinary shares are classi ed as equity instruments.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Investments in own shares, held through the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust, are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
The costs of administration of the Trust are included in the income statement as they accrue.
Accounting estimates and uncertainties The Group makes estimates and judgements concerning the future and the resulting estimates may, by fide nition, vary from the related actual results.
The directors consider the critical accounting estimates and judgements to be: Revenue Judgement is required in selecting the appropriate timing and amount of revenue recognised, particularly where the Group recognises performance related income.
Revenue is only recognised when it can be reliably estimated using customer speci c information, and where there is a performance related element, to the extent to which the performance criteria have been met.
The likelihood of collection of trade receivables also requires judgement to be applied.
The Group monitors the levels of provisioning required based on historical trends and by detailed review of individually signi cant balances.
Contingent deferred put option payments in respect of acquisitions Estimates are required in respect of the amount of deferred consideration recognised on acquisitions.
The Group determines the amount of deferred consideration to be recognised according to the formulae agreed at time of acquisition, normally related to the future earnings of the acquired entity.
The liability for deferred consideration is reviewed at each balance sheet date and changes in estimates are made to deferred consideration and goodwill.
Deferred consideration liabilities are discounted to their fair value in accordance with IFRS 3 and IAS 37.
The difference between the fair value of these liabilities and the actual amounts payable is charged to the income statement as notional finance costs.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the fair value of the put options are the expected future cash ows and earnings of the business and the discount rate.
Accounting policies continued Recognition of share-based payments The Group makes share-based payments to certain employees.
These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the grant.
The vesting period charge is calculated with reference to the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, as determined by the anticipated number of leavers during the vesting period and based on an annual assessment of non-market performance conditions attached to certain awards.
See Note 31 for further details.
Valuation of intangible assets The Group exercises judgement in determining the fair value of identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in business combinations.
In calculating the fair values of intangibles the Group makes assumptions on the timing and amount of future cash ows generated by the assets it has acquired, the appropriate discount rates and the useful economic lives of the assets purchased.
Impairment In determining whether an impairment loss has arisen on goodwill and intangible assets the Group makes judgements over the value in use of its cash generating units CGUs.
In calculating the value in use of a CGU the Group makes estimates of future forecast cash ows and discount rates to derive a net present value of these cash ows to determine if an impairment has occurred.
Key areas of judgement include the determination of the long-term growth rate applicable to each CGU and the determination of the CGUs themselves.
See Note 13 for further details.
Taxation Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in scal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored and the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where necessary.
Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure which makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the ef ciency of legal processes.
Such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a conservative view of unresolved issues, however the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual resolution could differ signi cantly from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and future cash ows.
Deferred tax The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable pro ts against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Segment reporting Business segments The adoption of IFRS 8 leads to changes in the way in which the Group segments its result, with only one form of segmentation now required, driven by information provided to the Groups chief operating decision-maker, the Group Chief Executive Of cer.
Information reported to the Groups Chief Executive Of cer for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the two business divisions through which the Group operates: Aegis Media and Synovate.
This segment presentation re ects the management structure of the Group.
These divisions, which operate in the media and market research sectors respectively, are therefore the Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8, having previously been the primary segments under IAS 14.
Intersegment trading is not signi cant to either operating segment and no intersegment trading information is included in reports to the Groups Chief Executive Of cer.
Therefore all information reported below relates to external trade.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3.
Segment result represents segment underlying operating pro t, which is the measure reported to the Groups Chief Executive Of cer for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
The Groups Chief Executive Of cer also monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments with the exception of centrally-managed financial instruments, tax and other centrally-managed balances.
Goodwill is allocated to the segments as described in Note 13.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segment reporting continued An analysis of revenue and operating segment result by reportable segment is set out below: Underlying performance 2009 2008 Revenue Result Revenue Result m m m m Aegis Media 825.2 150.4 823.8 157.9 Synovate 521.3 36.9 518.2 42.2 Reportable segment revenue result 1,346.5 187.3 1,342.0 200.1 Corporate costs 17.0 23.1 1,346.5 170.3 1,342.0 177.0 Synovate achieved gross pro t or net revenue, after external direct costs, of 321.8m 2008: 329.2m.
See below for a reconciliation of reportable segment results to statutory results: Amortisation Disposal of Underlying Restructuring of purchased IAS 39 Other tax subsidiaries Statutory 1 2 results costs intangibles adjustments adjustment and associates results 2009 m m m m m m m Aegis Media 150.4 10.7 18.5 1.0 120.2 Synovate 36.9 19.2 5.7 12.0 Reportable segment result 187.3 29.9 24.2 1.0 132.2 Corporate 17.0 0.6 17.6 Operating pro t 170.3 30.5 24.2 1.0 114.6 Share of results of associates 0.3 0.5 0.2 Pro t before interest and tax 170.0 30.5 24.2 0.5 114.8 Investment income 7.9 7.9 Finance costs 28.6 2.9 31.5 Net financial costs 20.7 2.9 23.6 Pro t before tax 149.3 30.5 24.2 2.9 0.5 91.2 Tax 38.1 6.6 6.4 1.9 27.0 Pro t after tax 111.2 23.9 17.8 2.9 1.9 0.5 64.2 1 IAS 39 adjustments comprise gains of 13.5m on revaluation of put option liabilities and losses of 10.0m and 6.4m on revaluation of non-hedge derivatives and impairment of available-for-sale investments respectively.
2 Included in other tax adjustments is a deferred tax adjustment for tax amortisation of goodwill of 5.0m.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory pro t after tax is 47.0m, as presented above.
The disposal of associates and subsidiaries in the current year led to a loss of 0.5m.
This total includes cumulative exchange movements taken to and recycled from reserves to the income statement on disposal.
Impairment charges in the current year relate to impairment of the Groups investment in QJY and certain other available-for-sale investments and are explained further in Note 17.
Segment reporting continued Amortisation Underlying Restructuring of purchased IAS 39 Other tax Impairment Statutory 1 2 results costs intangibles adjustments adjustment charges results 2008 re-presented m m m m m m m Aegis Media 157.9 23.3 12.8 121.8 Synovate 42.2 1.4 4.4 36.4 Reportable segment result 200.1 24.7 17.2 158.2 Corporate 23.1 2.7 4.4 30.2 Operating pro t 177.0 27.4 17.2 4.4 128.0 Share of results of associates 2.7 2.7 Pro t before interest and tax 179.7 27.4 17.2 4.4 130.7 Investment income 15.9 15.9 Finance costs 28.8 6.8 22.0 Net financial costs 12.9 6.8 6.1 Pro t before tax 166.8 27.4 17.2 6.8 4.4 124.6 Tax 43.1 8.1 3.7 4.1 35.4 Pro t after tax 123.7 19.3 13.5 6.8 4.1 4.4 89.2 1 IAS 39 adjustments comprise gains of 2.2m and 6.0m on revaluation of put option liabilities and revaluation of non-hedge derivatives respectively and losses of 1.4m due to impairment of available-for-sale financial assets.
2 Included in other tax adjustments is a deferred tax adjustment for tax amortisation of goodwill of 3.9m.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory pro t after tax for 2008 was 34.5m, as presented above.
Segment assets and other segment information Depreciation Additions to and non-current Assets Liabilities amortisation assets Impairment 2009 m m m m m Aegis Media 2,899.8 2,325.0 38.6 12.9 6.4 Synovate 700.5 197.3 16.5 3.5 0.2 Reportable segment total 3,600.3 2,522.3 55.1 16.4 6.6 Corporate 13.1 646.6 0.8 0.4 Consolidated total 3,613.4 3,168.9 55.9 16.8 6.6 Depreciation Additions to and non-current Assets Liabilities amortisation assets Impairment 2008 re-presented m m m m m Aegis Media 3,308.0 2,823.7 31.6 17.1 Synovate 762.3 234.7 14.5 10.9 1.3 Reportable segment total 4,070.3 3,058.4 46.1 28.0 1.3 Corporate 43.4 595.5 1.2 1.4 4.4 Consolidated total 4,113.7 3,653.9 47.3 29.4 5.7 Revenues from major products and services Aegis Medias business comprises the provision of a number of integrated media services, which are considered to represent a single group of closely-related services.
Similarly, the Synovate business of market research is considered to be a single group of closely-related services.
Therefore, no further analysis by service is necessary.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segment reporting continued Geographical information The Group operates in numerous countries throughout the world.
Management has determined that revenues from external customers attributed to an individual foreign country are material if they make up more than 10% of consolidated Group revenue, and in such cases the revenue arising in these countries is disclosed separately.
The Groups country of domicile is the UK.
Operating pro t Operating pro t has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2009 2008 m m Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.1 2.0 Impairment of intangible assets 4.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23.7 23.0 Amortisation of intangible assets included in operating expenses 32.2 24.3 Bad debt expense see Note 18 7.5 4.6 Operating lease expense see Note 30 61.9 50.6 Staff costs see Note 7 665.5 673.4 Staff costs include a share-based payment expense of 7.1m 2008: 9.2m.
A detailed analysis of auditors remuneration charged to operating pro t is provided below: 2009 2009 2008 2008 m % m % Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 7.3% 0.3 8.1% Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.1 75.6% 3.0 81.1% Total audit fees 3.4 82.9% 3.3 89.2% Non audit fees Other services pursuant to legislation interim review 0.1 2.4% 0.1 2.7% Tax services 0.2 4.9% 0.2 5.4% Other services 0.4 9.8% 0.1 2.7% Total non-audit fees 0.7 17.1% 0.4 10.8% Total fees paid to the Companys auditors 4.1 100.0% 3.7 100.0% A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on page 29 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Restructuring charges During the year the Group incurred the following charges in respect of restructuring programmes: 2009 2008 m m Severance and related expenditure 28.3 23.0 Property costs 2.2 4.4 30.5 27.4 7.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees was: 2008 2009 restated Number Number Aegis Media 9,408 9,756 Synovate 6,501 6,677 Corporate 40 45 15,949 16,478 The 2008 comparative increases Synovate staff numbers by 540 from the total of 6,137 previously reported.
Staff costs consist of: 2009 2008 m m Wages, salaries, bonus and bene ts 570.4 580.4 Social security costs 82.1 81.0 Other pension costs 13.0 12.0 665.5 673.4 Wages, salaries, bonus and bene ts includes a share-based payment charge of 7.1m 2008: 9.2m.
Investment income 2009 2008 m m Interest receivable 7.9 15.9 Interest receivable includes 0.4m 2008: 0.3m in respect of the expected return on pension scheme assets see Note 32.
Finance costs 2009 2008 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3.3 5.1 Interest payable on loan notes, other loans and pension scheme liabilities 23.2 30.1 26.5 35.2 Imputed interest on deferred consideration 1.1 1.6 Fair value movements on acquisition put options 13.5 2.2 Exchange movements on nancing items 1.1 8.4 Fair value movements on non-hedge derivatives 10.0 6.0 Fair value movement arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 3.5 Adjustment to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge 3.5 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 6.4 1.4 Amortisation of nancing costs 2.1 0.4 31.5 22.0 Exchange movements on nancing items includes fair value movements in derivative instruments intended to provide a natural hedge of exchange rate risk.
See Note 2 for detail on the reclassi cation of such exchange movements from 2008.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Tax on pro t on ordinary activities The tax charge is made up of the following: 2009 2008 m m Current tax UK taxation at 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 0.3 Current tax overseas 27.7 37.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.8 0.5 25.9 38.7 Deferred tax Note 21 1.1 3.3 27.0 35.4 The underlying effective tax rate on underlying pro ts for the year ended 31 December 2009 is 25.52% 2008: 25.84%.
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2009 is 27.0m 2008: 35.4m representing an effective tax rate including deferred tax on goodwill on statutory pro ts of 29.61% 2008: 28.41%.
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2009 includes a deferred tax expense of 5.0m 2008: 3.9m for tax deductions in respect of goodwill.
IFRS requires that such deferred tax is recognised even if a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
UK Corporation tax is calculated at 28.0% 2008: 28.5% of the estimated assessable pro t for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting pro t as follows: 2009 2008 m m Pro t before taxation 91.2 124.6 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 25.5 35.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.8 0.5 Tax effect of income expenditure that is not taxable deductible 2.5 0.7 Rate differences on overseas earnings 3.0 2.7 Tax losses carried forward in the period: UK 1.2 0.5 Tax losses utilised in the period: overseas 0.5 1.1 Impact of short-term temporary differences not recognised for deferred tax 2.1 2.0 Tax expense for the year 27.0 35.4 Effective rate of statutory tax charge on statutory pro ts 29.61% 28.41% The Groups pro t before taxation all arises from continuing operations.
Therefore the Groups tax charge also relates solely to continuing operations.
IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement and not in the Groups tax charge.
Associates tax included within Net income from associates for the year ended 31 December 2009 is 0.1m 2008: 0.2m.
Dividends 2009 2008 Ordinary shares of 5p each Dividend rate per share for the period pence 2.50 2.50 2009 2008 m m Declared and paid during the period Final dividend for 2007 of 1.46p per share 16.5 Interim dividend for 2008 of 0.96p per share 10.9 Final dividend for 2008 of 1.54p per share 17.8 Interim dividend for 2009 of 0.96p per share 11.1 28.9 27.4 Proposed but not yet declared or paid at the balance sheet date Final dividend for 2008 of 1.54p per share 17.8 Final dividend for 2009 of 1.54p per share 17.9 17.9 17.8 The employee share trust has an ongoing arrangement with the Group to waive all dividends.
As a result, the total cash paid in settlement of the final dividend for 2008 was 17.5m.
Based on the number of shares held by the employee share trust as at 31 December 2009, the expected cash payment in settlement of the 2009 final dividend is 17.6m.
The final dividend for 2009, if approved, will be paid on 1 July 2010 to all ordinary shareholders on the register at 4 June 2010.
Earnings per share 2009 2008 Basic Pro t for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent m 62.7 82.8 Adjusting items m 45.5 34.5 Underlying pro t for the year m 108.2 117.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 1,138.5 1,133.5 Basic earnings per share pence 5.5 7.3 Adjusting items pence 4.0 3.0 Underlying basic earnings per share pence 9.5 10.3 Diluted Pro t for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent m 62.7 82.8 Adjusting items Note 4 m 45.5 34.5 Underlying pro t for the year m 108.2 117.3 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 1,139.1 1,136.9 Diluted earnings per share pence 5.5 7.3 Adjusting items pence 4.0 3.0 Underlying diluted earnings per share pence 9.5 10.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,138.5 1,133.5 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: employee share options 0.6 0.7 Shares to be issued 2.7 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,139.1 1,136.9 The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on pro t after tax and minority interests.
The weighted average number of shares excludes the Groups interest in own shares held through an ESOP trust.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 January 2008 821.8 Additions 92.2 Other acquisition adjustments 0.9 Adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration 15.4 Exchange differences 209.5 At 31 December 2008 1,139.8 Additions 9.7 Other acquisition adjustments 6.7 Adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration 66.8 Exchange differences 53.3 At 31 December 2009 1,036.1 m Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January and 31 December 2008 25.2 Impairment losses for the year At 31 December 2009 25.2 m Carrying amount At 31 December 2009 1,010.9 At 31 December 2008 1,114.6 At 1 January 2008 796.6 Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units which re ect how it is monitored for internal management purposes.
This allocation largely represents the geographic areas of operation for the Groups two divisions as set out below.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next year and extrapolates cash ows based on estimated growth rates.
These calculations re ect managements experience and future expectations of the markets in which the CGU operates.
Short-term average growth rates used for projections are based on published industry-wide forecasts by region and vary between 0.7% and 5.5%.
Long-term average growth rates used in the projections range between 2.0% for mature markets and 5.0% for higher growth markets and vary with managements view of the CGUs market position and maturity of the relevant market.
The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash ows is 10.5%.
Further disclosures in accordance with paragraph 134 of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets are given for CGUs comprising at least 20% of the total carrying value of goodwill for the Group.
Goodwill continued Goodwill allocated to the Aegis Media Europe, Middle East and Africa cash generating unit is signi cant in comparison with the total amount of goodwill.
The goodwill of 292.6m has arisen on a large number of individually small acquisitions.
As with the approach for all CGUs, the Group has prepared cash ow forecasts of the Aegis Media Europe, Middle East and Africa CGU based on the most recent financial budgets.
The key assumptions on which the forecasts are based are shortand long-term growth rates which have been made in line with recent externally sourced expectations of market growth.
Expected future cash ows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are signi cantly affected by a number of factors such as market growth, discount rates and currency exchange rates.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued The carrying amount of intangible assets with inde nite useful economic lives is 4.9m 2008: 5.0m, 2007: 3.5m, principally relating to trade names.
These are considered to have inde nite lives because it is the Groups intention to continue to invest in these assets and by doing so, their value will be protected and enhanced.
This continued investment involves expenditure on training, recruitment, technological development and legal protection.
4.1m 2008: 4.6m, 2007: 3.4m of these assets are included within the Aegis Media operating segment, principally in the Americas.
Internally-generated intangible assets of 4.2m 2008: 2.0m, 2007: 1.1m have not yet been subject to amortisation as development of these assets is not yet complete.
Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment are 1.4m 2008: 0.3m, 2007: 0.7m.
Interests in associates and joint ventures a Carrying amount Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 January 2008 18.5 0.8 19.3 Share of pro t 2.7 2.7 Dividends received 0.8 0.8 Other movements 1.0 1.0 Exchange differences 6.5 6.5 At 31 December 2008 25.9 0.8 26.7 Transfer to available-for-sale asset 18.9 18.9 Disposal 1.8 0.5 2.3 Dividends received 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 2.0 2.0 At 31 December 2009 3.0 0.3 3.3 Investments in associates at 31 December 2009 include goodwill of 2.0m 2008: 7.0m, 2007: 5.4m.
During the year, the Group determined that its investment in Qin Jia Yuan Advertising QJY, a company listed in Hong Kong, no longer meets the fide nition of an associate, as fide ned in IAS 28, due to a decrease in the Groups in uence over the company following a dilution to its equity holding.
Therefore, QJY is reclassi ed as an available-for-sale investment and measured in accordance with IAS 39.
Pro t on disposal of associates and the eVerger joint venture totalling 0.5m in the year includes the cumulative exchange movement previously taken to equity in relation to the entities disposed.
This is excluded from the share of pro t shown in the table above, as it is not part of the asset movement.
There were no such disposals in 2008.
A Group share of joint venture losses of 0.3m 2008: nil is allocated against receivables representing part of the Groups net investments in the relevant ventures, since the carrying amount as presented above has been reduced to nil in previous years.
Losses of 0.3m arising in associates have been excluded from the Group share of the result of associates in the current year 2008: nil since the carrying amount as presented above has been reduced to nil in previous years.
This represents the cumulative total of the unrecognised share of losses.
b Investments in associates The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in associated companies assets, liabilities, revenues and pro t: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Total assets 10.9 37.0 27.0 Total liabilities 9.9 18.1 13.9 1.0 18.9 13.1 Goodwill 2.0 7.0 5.4 3.0 25.9 18.5 Total revenues 5.4 13.5 6.7 Total pro t 2.7 3.2 The following represents the summarised gross financial information of the Groups associated companies assets, liabilities, revenues and pro t: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Total assets 27.0 199.9 122.6 Total liabilities 25.1 79.0 49.0 Total revenues 13.7 45.2 25.6 Total loss pro t 0.7 15.7 12.6 All associates have year end reporting dates of 31 December.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Available-for-sale financial assets 2009 2008 2007 m m m Equity investments 14.9 0.4 2.3 The equity investments held at the 2009 year end represent a stake of approximately 2.1% in Harris Interactive Inc. and a stake of approximately 15.0% in QJY, along with a number of smaller unlisted securities.
The unlisted securities are held by a number of Group companies and represent numerous small investments in private companies.
The investment in QJY was recognised as an associate in 2007 and 2008 see Note 16.
In the current period, the reclassi cation to available-for-sale asset and the resulting change in measurement requirements led to an impairment loss of 5.9m recognised within finance costs as the reduction in value is not considered to be temporary.
The remaining 0.5m impairment loss relates to a number of other small investments.
Impairments of 1.4m were recognised in 2008 in relation to available-for-sale assets.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Trade receivables for the Group are stated net of an allowance for doubtful receivables of 37.8m 2008: 34.9m, 2007: 24.8m.
2009 m At 1 January 34.9 Additional charge in the year 10.4 Release of allowance 2.9 Utilisation of allowance 2.4 Exchange differences 2.2 At 31 December 37.8 As of 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 396.2m 2008: 585.7m, 2007: 540.8m were past due but not impaired.
Trade and other payables 2009 2008 2007 m m m Trade payables 1,737.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
Financial instruments The Group has established objectives concerning the holding and use of financial instruments which are discussed in the Business and Financial reviews on pages 2 to 17.
The key objective is to manage the financial risks faced by the Group, which are discussed below.
Formal policies and guidelines have been set to achieve these objectives and it is the responsibility of Group Treasury to implement these policies using the strategies set out below.
The Group manages its capital to enable the entities in the Group to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the Groups borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves and retained earnings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor engage in speculative arrangements and it is the Groups policy not to use any complex financial instruments, unless, in exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to cover fide ned risks.
Management of financial risk The Group considers its major financial risks to be currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
The Groups policies with regard to these risks and the strategies concerning how financial instruments are used to manage these risks are set out below.
Currency risk A signi cant portion of the Groups activities takes place overseas.
The Group therefore faces currency exposures on transactions undertaken by subsidiaries in foreign currencies and upon consolidation following the translation of the local currency results and net assets liabilities of overseas subsidiaries.
The Groups foreign currency management policy requires subsidiaries to hedge all transactions and financial instruments with material currency exposures.
The Group is a party to a number of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of its exchange rate exposures.
The instruments purchased are primarily denominated in the currencies of the Groups principal markets.
These are held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
The total notional amounts of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed are shown below.
2009 2008 2007 m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts notional principal 242.3 297.0 42.4 The fair values of currency derivatives included in the balance sheet are based on a discounted cash ow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instrument.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows calculated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Cross currency interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable interest yield curves and quoted forward exchange rates.
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are taken to the income statement.
Other instruments are in designated hedge relationships and movements are treated accordingly.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge exposures arising from the translation of pro ts or net assets as these represent an accounting rather than cash exposure.
The Groups policy is to borrow locally wherever possible to act as a natural hedge against the translation risk arising from its net investments overseas.
A currency analysis of borrowings is given in section c of this note.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective of ensuring that adequate funding is in place is achieved by having agreed suf cient committed bank facilities.
The Group also seeks to manage its working capital requirement by requiring clients to pay for media in advance whenever possible.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had net debt before issue costs of new debt of 258.6m 2008: 298.7m, 2007: 246.8m.
The Groups principal debt instruments are subject to certain financial covenants.
Also included within gross borrowings is US$342.0m of unsecured loan notes issued on 28 July 2005, equivalent to 211.8m at year and exchange rates 2008: 234.6m, 2007: 172.3m, which are repayable in full between 2012 and 2017: US$125.0m of unsecured loan notes issued on 17 September 2007, equivalent to 77.4m at year end exchange rates 2008: 85.8m, 2007: 63.0m, which are repayable in full between 2014 and 2017: 25.0m 2008 and 2007: nil of unsecured loan notes issued on 17 December 2009, repayable in full in 2017: and US$183.0m of unsecured loan notes issued on 17 December 2009, equivalent to 113.3m at year end exchange rates 2008 and 2007: nil, which are repayable in full between 2017 and 2019.
At 31 December 2009, the Group has undrawn committed facilities of 376.4m 2008: 172.1m, 2007: 185.6m.
Interest rate risk The Groups unsecured loan notes, referred to above, are at xed rates.
All other borrowings are at oating rates.
The Group has in place cash pooling arrangements in a number of territories.
These enable the Group to minimise the interest paid on short-term borrowings and overdrafts, whilst allowing net surplus funds to be invested in interest bearing accounts.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and cash balances.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet in respect of trade receivables are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade credit risk is managed in each territory through the use of credit checks on new clients and individual credit limits, where considered necessary.
In some instances clients are required to pay for media in advance.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group has no signi cant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
Current receivables and payables and currency disclosures Due to the nature of the operations of the business, Group companies are able to match current receivables and payables in currencies other than their functional currency and therefore do not have material, unhedged monetary assets and liabilities.
Current receivables and payables are therefore excluded from currency analyses provided in this note.
Private placement debt July 2005 On 28 July 2005, the Group issued US$342m of unsecured loan notes, repayable between 2012 and 2017.
The interest rates applicable on these loan notes ranges from 5.25% to 5.65%.
These loan notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
On 9 November 2005 cross currency swaps were entered into for US$142m of the loan notes due in 2012 and US$50m of the loan notes due in 2015 to convert this US$ xed rate borrowing into Euro xed rate borrowing.
The remaining US$150m of loan notes are used to provide a net investment hedge against US dollar-denominated investments until 1 April 2009.
To the extent that this hedging relationship was effective, exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the US$150m of debt not impacted by the cross currency swaps was taken directly to reserves.
From 1 April 2009 the net investment hedge was fide-designated and the US$150m of loan notes were used to provide a natural hedge against US dollar-denominated assets.
Multi-currency credit facility June 2006 On 9 June 2006, the Group raised a five year 450m multi-currency credit facility with a group of international banks.
The facility is committed and revolving and allows drawings under a variety of currencies.
Pricing is based on the inter-bank rate of the relevant currency for the corresponding period of the drawing with the interest margin determined by reference to a grid based on the consolidated net borrowings to consolidated net EBITDA ratio.
The facility is unsecured but guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Euro drawings from this facility during the period 7 July 2009 to 13 October 2009 averaging a69.4m were used to provide a net investment hedge against Euro-denominated investments.
To the extent that the hedge relationship was effective, exchange differences arising on the re-translation of these drawings were taken directly to reserves.
Private placement debt September 2007 On 17 September 2007, the Group issued US$125m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2014 and 2017.
The interest rates applicable on these loan notes ranges from 6.06% to 6.29%.
Central Sterling facility June 2009 The Group secured an additional Sterling facility up to a value of 40m in June 2009.
This facility is available until 2011 and is priced based on the inter-bank rate throughout this period.
Term loan July 2009 In July 2009 the Group secured a loan of 45m available until 2011 at a variable interest rate.
In 2011, there is a mechanism to increase the facility to 60m and accept a xed rate dependent on the market conditions at that time or to exit the arrangement.
Private placement debt December 2009 On 17 December 2009, the Group issued US$183m and 25m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2017 and 2019.
The interest rates applicable on these loan notes range from 6.07% to 6.50%.
On 17 November 2009, an interest rate swap was entered into for US$50m of the loan notes due 2019 to convert the USD xed rate debt to USD oating rate debt.
On 17 November 2009, cross currency interest rate swaps were entered into for US$18m of the loan notes due in 2017 and US$115m of the loan notes due in 2019 to convert the USD xed rate borrowing to GBP oating rate borrowing.
Financial instruments continued Cross currency swaps The fair value of the cross currency swaps at 31 December 2009 is 22.1 m 2008: 11.1 m, 2007: 15.9 m. The fair value is based on a discounted cash ow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents movements in the Euro USD foreign exchange spot rate and in Euro and USD interest rate yields.
The cross currency swaps are synthetically split, for accounting purposes, to re ect the Groups presentational currency of Sterling.
The USD Sterling leg of the swaps act as cash ow hedges against the Groups USD loan notes and the Euro Sterling leg of the swaps act as net investment hedges in respect of certain of the Groups Eurodenominated investments.
Interest rate swaps The fair value of the interest rate swaps at 31 December 2009 is 1.7m 2008: 0.1m, 2007: 0.1m.
The fair value is based on a discounted cash ow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents unrecognised losses 2008: losses, 2007: pro ts which the Group expects to realise as a result of lower or higher variable interest payments under the swap compared with the xed interest rate applicable on the underlying loan notes.
The interest rate swaps are designated and effective as fair value hedges against changes in the fair value of the debt caused by changes in interest rates.
Movements in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are taken to the income statement where they offset against very similar but opposite movements in the fair value of the debt caused by movements in interest rates.
Cross currency interest rate swaps The fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2009 is 1.2 m 2008: nil, 2007: nil.
The fair value is based on a discounted cash ow model and market yield curves applicable and represents movements in the Sterling USD foreign exchange spot rate and in Sterling and USD interest rate yields.
Movements in the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps excluding the credit spread are taken to the income statement where they offset against opposite movements in the fair value of the USD loan notes.
Movements in the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the credit spread are taken to reserves and released to the income statement when the underlying portion of US loan notes interest is recognised in the income statement.
Covenants Covenant requirements under the current Group nancing arrangements and the performance against these requirements for the current year are given in the Financial review on page 17. a Categories of financial instruments Carrying value Carrying value Carrying value 2009 2008 2007 m m m Financial assets Fair value through pro t and loss FVTPL Held for trading 0.2 6.0 0.1 Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 2,230.0 2,594.8 2,319.6 Available-for-sale financial assets 14.9 0.4 2.3 Total financial assets 2,245.2 2,601.3 2,322.1 Financial liabilities Fair value through pro t and loss FVTPL Currency derivatives held for trading 2.0 0.8 0.5 Acquisition put option derivatives 31.4 41.3 22.0 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 25.0 11.1 15.9 Amortised cost 2,788.0 3,307.4 2,784.1 Total financial liabilities 2,846.4 3,360.6 2,822.5 Throughout the financial instruments note, comparatives are restated to exclude prepayments and accrued income, accruals and deferred income.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Less than More than No xed 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years maturity Total 2009 m m m m m m Current Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 391.1 391.1 Derivative financial assets: Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 391.3 391.3 Trade receivables 1,723.1 1,723.1 Other financial asset receivables 115.2 115.2 Total current 2,229.62,229.6 Non-current Available-for-sale financial assets 14.9 14.9 Other Financial assets 0.7 0.7 Total non-current 15.6 15.6 Total 2,229.6 15.62,245.2 Less than More than No xed 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years maturity Total 2008 m m m m m m Current Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 412.7 412.7 Derivative financial assets: Forward foreign exchange contracts 6.0 6.0 Other financial assets 2.8 2.8 421.5 421.5 Trade receivables 2,023.2 2,023.2 Other financial asset receivables 154.1 154.1 Total current 2,598.8 2,598.8 Non-current Available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Other financial assets 2.1 2.1 Total non-current 2.5 2.5 Total 2,598.8 2.52,601.3 69 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Less than More than No xed 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years maturity Total 2007 m m m m m m Current Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 356.8 356.8 Derivative financial assets: Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.1 Other financial assets 0.3 0.3 357.2 357.2 Trade receivables 1,837.2 1,837.2 Other financial asset receivables 123.7 123.7 Total current 2,318.1 2,318.1 Non-current Available-for-sale financial assets 2.3 2.3 Other financial assets 1.7 1.7 Total non-current 4.0 4.0 Total 2,318.1 4.02,322.1 There are no material differences between the book and fair values of the Groups financial assets at 31 December 2009.
The fair values of financial assets re ect market values or are based upon readily available market data.
Financial liabilities Less than More than 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total 2009 m m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 4.9 4.9 Loans 38.6 38.6 43.5 43.5 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 0.3 0.3 43.2 43.2 Derivative financial liabilities: Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.0 2.0 Put option liabilities 1.6 1.6 46.8 46.8 Trade payables 1,737.6 1,737.6 Deferred consideration 34.4 34.4 Other payables 314.8 314.8 Total current 2,133.6 2,133.6 Non-current Bank loans 6.2 20.7 0.1 27.0 Loan notes 158.3 144.9 276.0 579.2 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 0.2 0.4 0.5 1.1 164.3 165.2 275.6 605.1 Derivative financial liabilities: Cross currency swap 16.7 5.4 22.1 Cross currency interest rate swap 1.2 1.2 Interest rate swap 1.7 1.7 Put option liabilities 10.2 13.5 6.1 29.8 Other non-current liabilities 27.4 11.5 14.0 52.9 Total non-current 201.9 206.9 304.0 712.8 Total 2,133.6 201.9 206.9 304.0 2,846.4 Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities Less than More than 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total 2008 m m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 5.0 5.0 Loans 48.1 48.1 53.1 53.1 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 0.4 0.4 52.7 52.7 Derivative financial liabilities: Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.7 0.7 Put option liabilities 4.1 4.1 57.6 57.6 Trade payables 1,981.4 1,981.4 Deferred consideration 71.8 71.8 Other payables 402.3 402.3 Total current 2,513.1 2,513.1 Non-current Bank loans 28.8 6.6 0.2 35.6 Loan notes 411.4 211.3 622.7 28.8 418.0 211.5 658.3 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 0.4 0.4 0.8 28.4 417.6 211.5 657.5 Derivative financial liabilities: Cross currency swap 9.9 1.2 11.1 Put option liabilities 11.8 19.9 5.5 37.2 Other non-current liabilities 41.1 85.6 15.0 141.7 Total non-current 81.3 533.0 233.2 847.5 Total 2,513.1 81.3 533.0 233.2 3,360.6 71 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities Less than More than 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total 2007 m m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 27.3 27.3 Loans 58.3 58.3 85.6 85.6 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 0.5 0.5 85.1 85.1 Derivative financial liabilities: Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 Put option liabilities 2.9 2.9 88.3 88.3 Trade payables 1,703.3 1,703.3 Deferred consideration 41.9 41.9 Other payables 337.1 337.1 Other financial liabilities 0.1 0.1 Total current 2,170.7 2,170.7 Non-current Bank loans 0.2 26.6 0.5 27.3 Loan notes 335.5 155.2 490.7 0.2 362.1 155.7 518.0 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 0.4 0.7 1.1 0.2 361.4 155.7 516.9 Derivative financial liabilities: Cross currency swap 12.2 3.7 15.9 Put option liabilities 2.6 13.9 2.6 19.1 Other non-current liabilities 50.0 33.5 16.4 99.9 Total non-current 52.4 421.0 178.4 651.8 Total 2,170.7 52.4 421.0 178.4 2,822.5 Except as detailed in the following table, the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements are approximately equal to their fair values: 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value m m m m m m 2000 loan notes 6.8 6.6 2005 loan notes 203.7 216.7 218.2 240.0 167.7 176.3 2007 loan notes 77.0 78.8 79.9 87.3 62.5 64.1 2009 loan notes 136.2 138.7 Total 416.9 434.2 298.1 327.3 237.0 247.0 Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices includes held-to-maturity investments and quoted available-for-sale investments.
The fair values of derivative instruments, other than put options over acquisition of minorities, are calculated using quoted prices and yield curves derived from these quoted prices.
The fair values of put option liabilities are calculated as the best estimate of the gross cash expected to be paid discounted to present value.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset of liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009 m m m m Financial assets Fair value through pro t and loss FVTPL Held for trading 0.2 0.2 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 12.2 12.2 Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 Available-for-sale financial assets quoted 14.1 14.1 Total financial assets 14.2 12.4 26.6 Financial liabilities Fair value through pro t and loss FVTPL Currency derivatives held for trading 2.2 2.2 Acquisition put option derivatives 31.4 31.4 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 37.2 37.2 Total financial liabilities 39.4 31.4 70.8 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
A reconciliation of the movements in the calculated fair value of put option derivatives is provided below: Acquisition put option derivatives m Balance at 1 January 2009 41.3 Revisions of estimated fair value recognised in the income statement 13.5 Issues 9.8 Settlements 3.6 Exchange differences 2.6 Balance at 31 December 2009 31.4 Fair value is calculated based on the discounted value of expected future payments.
An increase of 1% in the rate used to discount the expected gross value of payments would lead to a decrease in the recorded liability of 0.6m.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Analysis of derivative financial instruments Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m m m Derivative liabilities that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value Cross currency swaps 22.1 11.1 15.9 Cross currency interest rate swaps 1.2 Interest rate swaps 1.7 Derivatives carried at fair value through pro t and loss Forward foreign currency contracts 2.0 1.2 0.3 Interest rate swaps 0.1 Put option liabilities 1.6 29.8 4.1 37.2 2.9 19.1 Financial assets carried at fair value through pro t and loss Held for trading derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships: Forward foreign currency contracts 0.2 6.5 Interest rate swaps 0.1 3.4 54.8 1.1 48.3 3.1 35.0 Loans and receivables are discussed in this note and Note 18, and financial assets available for sale are disclosed in Note 17.
All other financial instruments are held at amortised cost except for derivative financial instruments which are held for trading at fair value through pro t and loss.
The total movement in the fair value of derivatives liabilities that are designated and effective as hedging instruments is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Cash ow hedges Cash ow hedge reserve 5.7 5.9 1.4 Income statement 12.8 35.0 1.3 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange reserve 11.5 36.4 10.0 Income statement 3.4 0.3 3.3 Fair value hedges Income statement 3.5 13.9 4.8 6.6 Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity pro le of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Maturity of borrowings The maturity pro le of the anticipated future cash ows including interest in relation to the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, on an undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differ from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows: 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 External Other External Other External Other loans liabilities Total loans liabilities Total loans liabilities Total m m m m m m m m m Less than one year 67.6 46.1 113.7 77.7 75.5 153.2 82.4 46.8 129.2 One two years 192.2 38.6 230.8 58.1 55.1 113.2 28.4 47.9 76.3 Two five years 228.3 26.6 254.9 468.1 118.3 586.4 420.8 50.1 470.9 More than five years 335.9 21.0 356.9 237.8 15.8 253.6 183.2 19.0 202.2 824.0 132.3 956.3 841.7 264.7 1,106.4 714.8 163.8 878.6 Effect of discount nancing rates 295.1 3.6 298.7 222.2 10.4 232.6 231.8 4.6 236.4 528.9 128.7 657.6 619.5 254.3 873.8 483.0 159.2 642.2 The maturity pro le of the Groups financial derivatives which include interest rate and foreign exchange swaps, using undiscounted cash ows, is as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 Payable Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Receivable m m m m m m Less than one year 248.6 252.7 302.9 304.6 46.9 47.7 One two years 9.6 13.6 5.9 7.0 4.5 5.1 Two five years 19.2 29.8 11.6 13.8 12.1 13.8 More than five years 20.6 36.0 2.6 3.0 3.2 3.6 298.0 332.1 323.0 328.4 66.7 70.2 The Group had the following undrawn, committed bank borrowing facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Expiring between one and two years 376.4 Expiring between two and five years 172.1 185.6 376.4 172.1 185.6 c Interest rate pro le The following interest rate and currency pro le of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is after taking into account any interest rate and cross currency swaps entered into by the Group.
Financial assets The table below summarises current financial assets by interest type.
The Groups non-current financial assets do not bear interest.
It is managements view that the short-term nature of these deposits means they effectively act as oating rate assets.
The oating rate financial assets above are represented by cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
At 31 December 2009, it is estimated that a general simultaneous parallel uplift of 1% in interest rates would reduce the Groups reported pro t by approximately 0.1m 2008: 0.7m, 2007: 0.1m.
d Sensitivity analysis The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 1% increase in Sterling against the signi cant foreign currencies of the Group.
The sensitivity analysis was performed taking outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusting their translation at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans.
For a 1% weakening of Sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the pro t and other equity.
Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m m Potential pro t decrease increase 0.1 0.1 1.7 0.9 0.7 Other equity 1.4 2.8 2.1 0.9 1.0 0.7 In managements opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk as the financial instruments are used to hedge exposures on retranslation of the Groups operations denominated in currencies other than Sterling, which are outside the scope of IFRS 7.
This sensitivity analysis excludes the foreign currency translation risk of the foreign operations, and had this been included the sensitivities would have been disclosed as follows: Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact Sensitivity analysis including hedging instruments 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 that are outside the scope of IFRS 7 m m m m m m Potential pro t decrease increase 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 Other equity Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Deferred tax Other Recognition Deductions in short-term of financial Purchased respect of temporary liabilities intangibles goodwill Losses differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 3.7 6.9 5.4 4.2 5.0 0.6 Goodwill and minority interests 13.1 13.1 Amounts credited charged to equity 0.6 1.7 1.1 Amounts credited charged to the income statement 0.1 3.7 3.9 0.7 2.9 3.3 Exchange rate differences 2.8 5.9 3.1 At 31 December 2008 asset liability 3.6 18.5 9.3 4.9 12.1 7.2 Deferred tax on intangibles 6.1 6.1 Amounts credited charged to equity 1.6 1.6 Amounts credited charged to the income statement 0.2 6.5 5.0 0.4 2.8 1.1 Exchange rate differences 1.1 1.4 2.5 At 31 December 2009 asset liability 3.4 17.0 14.3 5.3 12.3 10.3 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset.
2009 2008 2007 m m m Deferred tax liability 35.8 30.7 15.2 Deferred tax asset 25.5 23.5 15.8 10.3 7.2 0.6 The Group has the following temporary differences in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
2009 m Losses revenue 109.7 Losses capital 101.9 Other temporary differences 20.5 232.1 The tax losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date.
The total amount of tax losses and other temporary differences for which no deferred tax was recognised at 31 December 2008 was 223.9m.
Balances in the subsidiary entities are shown on a 100% basis, regardless of ownership percentage.
Balances in associates and joint ventures are not included.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 97.3m 2008: 579.3m, 2007: 303.3m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 31 December 2009 are signi cantly reduced from the previous year as a result of a change to UK tax legislation which largely exempts from UK tax, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009.
The temporary differences at 31 December 2009 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insigni cant.
Provisions Onerous lease provision m At 1 January 2008 1.8 Additional provision in the year 6.9 Utilisation of provision 4.4 Exchange differences 0.2 At 31 December 2008 4.5 Additional provision in the year 3.6 Utilisation of provision 4.6 Exchange differences 0.1 At 31 December 2009 3.4 The Groups vacant leasehold properties are principally located in the US and the UK.
Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments for the remaining period of the leases, which at 31 December 2009 is approximately 1.5 years 2008: five years.
Contingent liabilities The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to legal challenges and claims from time to time, and such claims are vigorously defended.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of pending legal proceedings, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated accounts or on the operations of the Group.
Share capital 2009 2008 Number of 2009 Number of 2008 ordinary shares m ordinary shares m Authorised: Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,500,000,000 75.0 1,500,000,000 75.0 Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid: At 1 January 1,158,801,112 58.0 1,153,519,030 57.7 Issue of shares by the Company 2,467,798 0.1 5,282,082 0.3 At 31 December 1,161,268,910 58.1 1,158,801,112 58.0 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
The ordinary shares of 5p each have full voting rights.
Own shares At 31 December 2009, the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust the Trust held 18,898,210 ordinary shares in the Company 31 December 2008: 24,883,971, 1 January 2008: 24,516,101 with a nominal value of 0.9m 31 December 2008: 1.2m, 1 January 2008: 1.2m and a market value of 22.6m 31 December 2008: 18.5m, 1 January 2008: 28.7m.
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Aegis Group plc acquired in the open market by the Trust using funds provided by Aegis Group plc.
The Trust has an ongoing arrangement with the Group to waive all dividends.
The Trust has purchased the shares to satisfy future share options and share awards under the Groups share-based payment schemes.
Share premium account 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 243.5 238.7 Issue of shares by the Company 2.0 4.8 At 31 December 245.5 243.5 Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Acquisition of subsidiaries During the period, the Group acquired subsidiaries all acquisition accounted for as detailed below: Company Country of incorporation % Acquired Total Group holding Date of acquisition Aegis Media View Portugal 51.0 January Midia Click Brazil 92.5 October During the period, the Group also acquired additional stakes in existing subsidiaries as detailed below: Company Country of incorporation % Acquired Total Group holding Date of acquisition Dr Pichutta Germany 45.0 100.0 January Creo Communication Norway 49.0 100.0 April Vizeum Malmo Sweden 49.0 100.0 May Carat Taiwan Taiwan 10.0 100.0 May DataCom CRM Spain 9.0 73.0 September Aegis Media Hellas Greece 24.5 100.0 September Globlet Thailand 20.0 100.0 September Carat Middle East Lebanon 49.0 100.0 September If the acquisitions above excluding additional stakes in existing subsidiaries had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for 2009 would have been 1,347.0m and Group pro t attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 62.7m.
Post-acquisition pro t before interest and tax on 2009 acquisitions was 0.2m.
Consideration paid, including acquisition costs, totalled 12.8m with estimated deferred consideration of 2.7m payable between 2010 and 2015, subject to performance criteria.
A summary of the net assets acquired and goodwill arising in respect of all acquisitions made in the year is given below.
Book value Fair value Fair value acquired adjustments of net assets m m m Net assets acquired: Intangible xed assets 4.3 4.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax liability 1.4 1.4 Net assets 0.4 2.9 3.3 Minority interest on current period acquisitions 0.8 Minority interest acquired on prior period acquisitions 2.6 5.1 Excess of put liability over equity provision 0.7 Goodwill capitalised in the period 9.7 Consideration 15.5 Satis ed by: Consideration paid 12.8 Deferred consideration 2.7 15.5 79 27.
Other non-current liabilities 2009 2008 2007 m m m Deferred consideration 35.8 125.6 74.8 Pensions see Note 32 8.4 8.9 7.1 Other 8.7 7.2 18.0 At 31 December 52.9 141.7 99.9 Deferred consideration Deferred consideration, which has been included within trade and other payables to the extent that it is due within one year Note 19, may be paid to the vendors of certain subsidiary undertakings in the years to 2015.
Such payments are either xed under the terms of the acquisition or are contingent on future financial performance.
The Directors estimate that, at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, the discounted liability at the balance sheet date for payments that may be due is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Within one year 34.4 71.8 41.9 Between one and two years 25.8 41.7 40.0 Between two and five years 9.8 81.1 34.6 Greater than five years 0.2 2.8 0.2 At 31 December 70.2 197.4 116.7 The minimum potential liability is 29.0m and the maximum potential liability is 200.6m.
Liabilities in respect of put options are disclosed as derivative liabilities and their expected maturities are given in Note 20.
Contingent asset As reported in prior years, during 2006 the Group became aware of a fraud perpetrated against Aegis Media Germany.
The Group has successfully recovered a portion of the monies expected to be due.
However, further recoveries are anticipated in future years and, although these recoveries are considered probable, the value to be received is not suf ciently certain to be recognised as an asset.
Notes to the cash ow statement 2009 2008 m m Operating pro t 114.6 128.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23.7 23.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 32.2 24.3 Impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 0.4 4.4 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 1.0 Net loss on disposal of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.4 Share-based payment charge 7.1 9.2 Other non-cash movements 0.1 2.0 Increase in provisions 1.0 1.2 Decrease increase in restructuring related liabilities 7.0 18.2 172.1 206.7 Decrease in receivables 174.4 243.1 Decrease increase in inventory: work in progress 6.1 2.8 Decrease in payables 153.5 185.4 27.0 54.9 Cash ows from operations 199.1 261.6 Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Notes to the cash ow statement continued Other 1 January Cash non-cash Exchange 31 December 2009 ow charges movements 2009 m m m m m Analysis of net debt Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 412.7 1.3 20.3 391.1 Overdrafts 5.0 0.7 0.8 4.9 Cash and cash equivalents 407.7 2.0 19.5 386.2 Debt due within one year 48.1 6.5 1.4 1.6 38.6 Debt due after more than one year 658.3 14.4 4.2 33.5 606.2 Net debt before issue costs of debt 298.7 18.9 5.6 15.6 258.6 Issue costs of debt 1.2 2.3 2.1 1.4 Total 297.5 21.2 3.5 15.6 257.2 30.
Operating lease arrangements 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m Lease payments under operating leases recognised in operating expenses 56.6 5.3 61.9 44.2 6.4 50.6 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Land and Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m m m m Within one year 38.1 5.5 43.6 40.2 5.9 46.1 30.3 5.1 35.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 91.3 10.1 101.4 98.6 8.6 107.2 72.3 8.6 80.9 After five years 46.2 46.2 59.6 0.3 59.9 62.6 62.6 175.6 15.6 191.2 198.4 14.8 213.2 165.2 13.7 178.9 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its of ce properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of 4.1 years and rentals are xed for an average of 3.3 years.
Share-based payments The Group recognised a total expense of 7.1m 2008: 9.2m in respect of all share-based payments in the year.
Share-based payments include share options and conditional share awards.
Share options The Group issues conditional share options to certain employees.
The grant price for share options is equal to the average quoted market price of the Company shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is typically three years.
If share options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Share options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest, unless otherwise approved by the Remuneration Committee at their discretion, and are subject to EPS performance conditions.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration report, on pages 33 to 38.
2009 2009 2008 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Options exercise price Options exercise price m m Outstanding at beginning of period 29.4 1.16 42.3 1.04 Granted during the period 0.3 1.24 Forfeited during the period 4.7 1.29 8.6 1.05 Exercised during the period 2.5 0.91 4.6 0.94 Outstanding at end of period 22.2 1.17 29.4 1.16 Exercisable at end of period 19.6 1.13 23.4 1.12 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 0.91 2008: 0.94.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average exercise price of 1.17 2008: 1.16, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.8 years 2008: 5.1 years.
No options were granted in 2009.
The Group recognised a total expense of 0.4m 2008: 0.7m in respect of share options in the year.
Share-based payments continued Conditional share awards The Group issues conditional share awards to certain employees.
The extent to which awards vest is determined partly by reference to the Companys TSR performance relative to a group of similar businesses and partly by reference to the Companys EPS growth relative to RPI.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration report.
The fair value of conditional share awards was determined using a stochastic model using the assumptions given in the table below.
2009 2008 Weighted average share price 0.88 125.3 Expected volatility 37.2% 26.5% Risk free rate 3.4% 5.1% Expected dividend yield 3.2% 1.8% The Group recognised a total expense of 6.7m 2008: 8.5m in respect of conditional share awards in the year.
Retirement bene t schemes fide ned contribution schemes Retirement bene ts for employees are principally provided by fide ned contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
The amount charged to the income statement of 11.9m 2008: 10.8m represents contributions payable in the year to these schemes at rates speci ed in the rules of the plans.
As at 31 December 2009, contributions of 3.5m 2008: nil due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
Other retirement bene t schemes The Group operates a small number of retirement bene t schemes that do not fall under the fide nition of fide ned contribution schemes, principally where required by local statutory regulations.
The principal schemes are located in Germany, Italy, France and Norway.
Under these schemes, the Groups liabilities in respect of past service are xed as a percentage of past salaries, but the schemes do not meet the fide nition of fide ned contribution schemes because contributions have not been paid to a separate entity.
The numbers below are in respect of all material Group fide ned bene t schemes, unless otherwise stated.
The most recent actuarial valuations of plan assets and the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation were carried out at 31 December 2009.
The present value of the fide ned bene t obligation, the related service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used are set out below.
2009 2008 Germany Italy France Norway Germany Italy France Norway Discount rate 5.8% 4.0% 5.2% 4.4% 6.0% 4.0% 6.3% 4.3% Expected rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.0% 5.6% 2.0% 6.3% Expected rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.0% 2.0% 4.3% 2.0% 2.0% 4.5% Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.8% 4.0% 6.0% 4.3% In ation assumption 2.2% 2.0% 1.5% 2.2% 2.0% 2.0% The principal fide ned bene t schemes in Germany and Norway are funded.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds, in accordance with scheme rules and statutory requirements.
The unfunded fide ned bene t schemes are principally in Italy and France.
The table below shows the amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its fide ned bene t retirement schemes and the expected rates of return net of administrative expenses on the assets in the schemes.
2009 2009 2008 2008 % m % m Equity instruments 53% 5.5 55% 4.2 Other assets 47% 4.9 45% 3.6 Fair value of pension scheme assets 100% 10.4 100% 7.8 Present value of fide ned bene t obligations 18.8 16.7 fide cit in scheme 8.4 8.9 Related deferred tax asset 1.2 0.8 Net pension liability net of deferred tax asset 7.2 8.1 The actual loss on scheme assets was 0.3m 2008: 0.6m.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial assets, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement bene t schemes continued The amounts charged to operating pro t are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 1.1 1.1 There were no charges in relation to past service in either the current or prior years.
The amounts credited to investment income and charged to finance costs are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 0.4 0.3 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.4 Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 0.3 0.6 Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities 0.2 0.6 Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.1 Movements in the present value of fide ned bene t obligations were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m At 1 January 16.6 13.0 12.7 Service cost 1.1 1.1 0.2 Interest cost 0.8 0.7 0.8 Contributions from scheme members 0.4 0.2 Actuarial gains and losses 0.2 0.6 0.3 Bene ts paid 0.3 0.6 0.1 Other 0.7 0.1 1.2 Exchange differences 0.3 3.0 0.9 At 31 December 18.8 16.7 13.0 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m At 1 January 7.7 5.9 4.7 Expected return on scheme assets 0.4 0.3 0.2 Actuarial gains and losses 0.3 0.6 0.2 Bene ts paid 0.4 0.8 0.4 Contributions from scheme members 1.3 0.1 0.1 Other 0.1 0.2 0.1 Exchange differences 0.1 1.1 0.6 At 31 December 9.7 7.8 5.9 83 32.
Retirement bene t schemes continued History of experience gains and losses: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Present value of fide ned bene t obligations m 18.8 16.7 13.0 12.7 12.1 Fair value of scheme assets m 9.7 7.8 5.8 4.7 3.9 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 0.3 0.6 0.2 0.1 Percentage of scheme assets 3.1 % 7.8 % 3.1 % 2.6 % Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.2 0.6 0.3 Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 1.1% 3.6% 2.3% Total amount recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Amount m 0.1 0.1 0.1 Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 0.5 % 4.2 % 0.8 % 2.6% The estimated amount of contributions to be paid to the scheme during 2009 is 1.5m.
Related party transactions Remuneration of key management personnel The following is the compensation of Directors and key management.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 38.
2009 2008 m m Short-term employee bene ts 2.7 4.4 Post-employment bene ts 0.2 0.7 Termination bene ts 0.6 2.6 Share-based payment 1.0 2.7 4.5 10.4 Transactions with associated undertakings In 2009, Group subsidiary companies purchased media space from associated undertakings totalling 18.7m 2008: 19.0m.
These transactions have occurred on an arms-length basis.
The balance due from Group companies to associated undertakings at the end of 2009 was 8.6m 2008: 0.8m.
The balance due from associated undertakings to Group companies at the end of 2009 was 2.8m 2008: 3.5m.
Subsequent events In January 2010, the Group acquired a 17.7% shareholding fully diluted in Charm Communications Inc Charm, one of Chinas leading TV buying and advertising agencies.
In addition, the Groups Vizeum arm and Charm are establishing a joint venture which will operate as Vizeum China.
Vizeums existing China operation will form the initial 40% of the JVs revenues and Charm will transfer local clients to the JV to form the remaining 60%.
The shareholder structure of 40% Aegis and 60% Charm will move towards 100% Aegis ownership by 2024 via incremental put and call options.
Charm has a blue chip local client base and the joint venture will combine the businesss domestic expertise and relationships with Vizeums international scope and client base, creating a powerful platform in China with international media agency standards.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements
