85 Independent auditors report to the members of Aegis Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the Balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 16.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters state to the Companys members those matters we are required where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this received from branches not visited by us: or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors agreement with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent are not made: or company financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent we have not received all the information and explanations we company financial statements in accordance with applicable require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Other matters Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and Scope of the audit of the financial statements on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and described as having been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material William Touche misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for and on behalf of the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Statutory Auditors London, UK signi cant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
17 March 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Additional information Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Financial statements 95 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Five-year summary Independent auditors report
