95 Glossary of terms The Group Organic growth Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Organic growth represents year-on-year growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
Aegis Media The media services division of Aegis Group plc.
Constant currency results Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year Synovate local currency amounts using current year exchange rates.
The market research division of Aegis Group plc.
Underlying results Billings Underlying operating pro t, underlying pro t before interest and The annualised value of media purchased and or managed on tax, underlying pro t before tax, and underlying pro t after tax are behalf of clients, before agency discounts.
operating pro t, pro t before interest and tax, pro t before tax, and pro t after tax respectively, stated before those items of Turnover financial performance that the Group believes should be Represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group on separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the behalf of clients, together with fees invoiced for media and underlying performance achieved by the Group and its businesses research services provided.
Such adjusting items are material by nature or amount in the opinion of the directors and may include impairment charges and other exceptional items which are material by nature Revenue or amount in the opinion of the directors, including pro ts and The value of media and research fees and commission earned by losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of purchased the Group.
intangible assets, unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and losses on Gross pro t liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and any related tax Media and research income after deduction of all direct costs.
Adjusting items may also include speci c tax items such as the bene t arising on the reduction of certain tax liabilities in a particular half-year period and deferred tax liabilities Net revenue for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred Research income after deduction of all direct costs which is tax liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind equivalent to gross pro t. This item is used in respect of on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Adjusting items are classi ed as operating, non-operating and nancing according to the nature of the underlying income or Gross margin expense.
Gross pro t stated as a percentage of turnover.
Goodwill Operating pro t The difference between the fair value of purchase consideration Gross pro t less operating expenses.
of a business as a whole and the aggregate fair value of its separable net assets.
Operating margin Operating pro t stated as a percentage of revenue.
Minority interests Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external Net new business shareholders.
The annualised value of media billings gained less the annualised value of media billings lost.
Emerging markets Emerging markets comprise Latin America, Central and Eastern Reported growth Europe, Asia Paci c with the exception of Australia, New Zealand Reported growth represents the year-on-year growth including the and Japan and the Middle East and Africa.
effect of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the year and movements in exchange rates.
Governance Business review Aegis Group plc Additional information Financial statements 2239 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Glossary of terms Notes to the Companys financial statements 96 Your notes Design and production: Radley Yeldar | ry.
com Print: The Midas Press Plc This Report has been printed on Cocoon Silk which is 100% recycled and FSC certi ed.
This report was printed by an FSC accredited printer using vegetable oil and soya based inks.
This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the nished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
SGS-COC-003320 Aegis Group plc 180 Great Portland Street London W1W 5QZ www.
