FurtHer inFormation glossary oF terms Basis points net rental income A unit that is equal to 1 100th of 1%.
Gross rental income less ground rents paid, service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
Brixton passing rent On the 24 August 2009 SEGRO plc acquired the entire The annual rental income currently receivable on a issued capital of Brixton plc company number 202342. property as at the balance sheet date which may be On acquisition of Brixton, shares were delisted and moreor less than the ERV.
Excludes rental income where Brixtonplc was re-registered as Brixton Limited.
a rent free period is in operation.
Excludes service charge income which is netted off service charge expenses.
Development pipeline The Groups current programme of developments pre-let authorised or in the course of construction at the balance A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion sheet date, together with potential schemes not yet ofadevelopment.
commenced on land owned or controlled by the Group.
reit enlargeD group A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as With effect from 24 August 2009, the combined a RealEstate Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the SEGRO Group and Brixton Group.
UK, such entities must be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in property estimateD rental value erv investment activities and must meet certain ongoing The estimated annual market rental value of lettable qualifications, SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries spaceas determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
electedfor REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007.
This will normally be different from the rent being paid.
rent roll estimate to complete etc See passing rent.
Costs still to be expended on a development or redevelopment to practical completion not to complete square metres sq m lettings, including attributable interest.
The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 square gross rental income metre 10.639 square feet.
Contracted rental income recognised in the period, including surrender premiums and interest receivable toppeD up net initial yielD on finance leases.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any Net initial yield adjusted to include notional headline rent contracted future rental increases are amortised on a in respect of let properties which are subject to a rent free straight line basis over the lease term.
period at the valuation date.
Hectares Ha toppeD up net initial yielD excluDing The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
vacantproperties Theconversion factor used, where appropriate, Topped up net initial yield adjusted to exclude the value is1hectare 2.471 acres.
Joint venture total property return tpr An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which A measure of the ungeared return from the portfolio and is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners is calculated as property gains and losses both realised under contractual arrangement whereby decisions on and unrealised plus net rental income, expressed as a financial and operating policies essential to the operation, percentage of capital employed.
performance and financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
true equivalent yielD True internal rate of return from the an investment net initial yielD property, based on the value of the property assuming Annualised current rent passing rent less non-recoverable the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property expenses such as empty rates, divided by the property becomes fully occupied over time.
True equivalent property valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
yield assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
124 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 ABOUT SEGRO GO OnlinE SEGRO is Europes leading provider of To keep up to date with SEGRO, flexible business space, operating from you can source facts and figures a network ofoffices across 10 countries.
about the Group through the various sections on our website The Group is a Real Estate Investment Trust and sign up for email alerts for fast REIT, listed on the London Stock Exchange communication of breaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis We aim to provide a range of flexible business are frequently updated and our space solutions to a wide variety of customers current share price is always operating in many different industries.
displayed on the Home Page.
Our objective is to create shareholder value As well as featuring detailed information about available by focusing on our core markets, applying our property throughout the portfolio, business model buy smart, add value, sell well, SEGRO.
com now also includes a and by using an efficient capital structure.
dedicated property search function that operates across each of the SEGROS BUSinESS mOdEl 10 countries in the Group, making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
STRATEGy Our objective is to create shareholder value by focusing on our core markets, applying our business model buy smart, add value, sell well, and by using an efficient capital structure.
SEGROs performance in areas Over recent years we have SEGROS BUSINESS MOdEL such as sustainability and customer improved the focus within our business and changed the culture from that of a passive asset collector to a 1 BUy SmART care are also featured on the site.
performancebased capital CAREFUl And WEll TImEd ASSET recycler, focused on creating SElECTIOn And ACqUISITIOn value from our assets.
The essence of our business model Acquire assets in strong locations with a good strategic fit is captured by the phrase buy smart, add value, sell well.
Ensure pricing is attractive with the potential toaddvalue www.
com In practice, this means finding Undertake thorough due diligence opportunities to invest in or acquire assets where we can add value, undertaking development or asset management activities to improve the value of the asset 3 SEll WEll 2a Add 1 and then seeking to sell part or CRySTAlISE vAlUE FROm vAlUE all of an asset as and when value OpTImISEd ASSETS has been optimised, enabling ThROUGh Sale of noncore or stabilised redeployment of the funds into dEvElOpmEnT assets to third parties or new opportunities.
EFFICIENT FINANCIAL jointventures Exploit substantial land Whilst it is always desirable STRUCTURE bank by pursuing prelets Seek to optimise timing and carefully timed to invest at the bottom of the tobalance the market cycle and sell at or near the top, cyclewithindividual Tax efficiency speculative development inareas of strong demand calling the market correctly on assetsstrategies Flexibility with substantial unsecured a longterm basis is a challenge look for opportunities Standardise design financing sources but, whatever the stage of torecycle sales proceeds to increase flexibility the cycle, there are always intonewopportunities Use of third party capital Focus on sustainability of 3 2 opportunities to sell mature or buildings to protect long whereappropriate noncore assets and to reinvest term value the funds into higher value uses.
Accordingly, we have continued to follow this approach despite the difficult market conditions experienced over the past year and, as reported elsewhere 2b Add vAlUE in this document, with some considerable success.
ThROUGh ImpROvInG ASSET mAnAGEmEnT develop and implement individual property strategies leasing and asset management Exceed customer expectations on service Increase rents, reduce vacancy and extend lease lengths P17 www.
com 17 Please read more about our strategy on page 17 Please refer to separate Forward looking statements SEGRO plc TRANSFORMATIONAL THINKING OPERATIONAL FOCUS Property Analysis booklet, This Annual Report may contain certain forwardlooking which provides additional statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and disclosures on our plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments property portfolio.
and performance, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a number of PROPERTY ANALYSIS factors which could cause actual results or developments to 2009 differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forwardlooking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO speak only as of the date they are made.
SEGRO does not undertake to update forwardlooking statements to reflect This Report was printed by Royle Print using soya based inks.
It was printed on 100% recycled any changes in SEGROs expectations with regard thereto or materials Cocoon Silk and Cocoon Offset which contain 100% post consumer waste.
any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this Annual Report The printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 14001 Environmental should be construed as a profit forecast.
Past share performance Management Systems and are both Forestry Stewardship Council certified.
com SEGRO investors cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Photograph of SEGRO young artists: Dionne Barber FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW OVERVIEW SEGRO plc ANNUAL REPORT 2009 SEGRO plc ANNUAL REPORT 2009 TRANSFORMATIONAL THINKING OPERATIONAL FOCUS Registered office 234 Bath Road Slough SL1 4EE Telephone: 44 0 1753 537 171 Fax: 44 0 1753 820 585 Registered in England and Wales Registered office number 167591 SEGRO.
