| | DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2009 55 The Subsidiary Companies own a number of Each of the Directors, whose names and properties on a freehold basis where they also functions are listed on page 5 confirm that, Directors hold long leasehold interests within the freehold to the best of their knowledge: and have not merged the interests.
For the responsibilities the Group financial statements, which have purposes of the freehold long leasehold split been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as below, we have included such properties adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view The Directors are responsible for within the freehold category.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position preparing the Annual Report, the Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the and loss of the Group: and Directors Remuneration Report and opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, the Directors report contained in the the financial statements in accordance as at 30 September 2009, of the freehold and Annual Report includes a fair review of with applicable law and regulations.
long leasehold property interests owned by the development and performance of the the Company and the Subsidiary Companies, business and the position of the Group, Company law requires the Directors to prepare subject to the Assumptions and comments in together with a description of the principal financial statements for each financial year.
our Reports dated 19 November 2009, were as risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Under that law the Directors have elected to follows: prepare the group and parent company The Directors confirmation in accordance financial statements in accordance with Freehold 1,068,920,000 with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 International Financial Reporting Standards properties One billion, sixty-eight million, is contained within the Directors Report on IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
nine hundred and twenty page 42. thousand pounds Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they Long 77,245,000 are satisfied that they give a true and fair view leasehold Seventy-seven million, two of the state of affairs of the group and the properties hundred and forty-five thousand Company and of the profit or loss of the Group pounds for that period.
In preparing these financial Total 1,146,165,000 statements, the Directors are required to: One billion, one hundred and forty-six million, one hundred select suitable accounting policies and then and sixty-five thousand apply them consistently: pounds make judgements and accounting estimates A long lease is one with an unexpired term in that are reasonable and prudent: excess of 50 years.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, The contents of our Reports are confidential to subject to any material departures disclosed Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden and explained in the financial statements: Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited and Shaftesbury prepare the financial statements on the Charlotte Street Limited, for the specific going concern basis unless it is inappropriate purpose to which they refer and are for their to presume that the company will continue use only.
Consequently, and in accordance in business.
with current practice, no responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the The Directors are responsible for keeping whole or any part of the contents of our adequate accounting records that are sufficient Reports or this summary report.
Before our to show and explain the Companys transactions Reports or this summary report, or any part and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any time the financial position of the Company and document, circular or statement, the valuers the Group and enable them to ensure that the written approval as to the form and context of financial statements and the Directors such publication or disclosure must first be Remuneration Report comply with the obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the approval is required whether or not DTZ group financial statements, Article 4 of the Debenham Tie Leung are referred to by name IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for and whether or not the contents of our safeguarding the assets of the Company and Reports or this summary report are combined the Group and hence for taking reasonable with others.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS The Directors are responsible for the Director maintenance and integrity of the Companys DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom 48 Warwick Street, governing the preparation and dissemination London W1B 5NL of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
