CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire or dispose of any CSR plc shares.
This Annual Report contains statements that are forward looking statements in relation to the future financial and operating performance and outlook of CSR.
These forward looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward looking statements can be identified by words such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, plans, should, may and other similar expressions, and include statements relating to, among other things, expected growth in 2010 and beyond, expected revenues, expected future design wins and increase in market share, the expected incorporation of the our products in those of our customers, the expectation of volume shipments of our products, opportunities in our industry and our ability to take advantage of those opportunities, the effect of our financial performance on our share price, the impact of government regulation, expected performance against adverse economic conditions, and other expectations and beliefs of our management.
All forward looking statements are based upon numerous assumptions regarding CSRs business strategies and the environment in which CSR will operate and therefore involve a number of known and unknown risks, contingencies, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of CSR.
Actual results and developments could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements as a result of numerous risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: a continuing or worsening economic downturn, which could reduce demand for consumer products: risks associated with securing sufficient capacity from the third-parties that manufacture, assemble and test CSRs products and other risks relating to CSRs fabless business model: continuing or worsening declines in the average selling prices of CSRs products: risks associated with existing or future litigation: costs associated with the development of new products in response to market demand: errors or failures in the hardware or software components of CSRs products: risks associated with acquiring and protecting intellectual property: risks relating to forecasting consumer demand for and market acceptance of CSRs products and the products that use CSRs products: the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry: the potential for disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly or testing services due to changes in business conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, public health concerns or other factors: CSRs ability to manage past and future acquisitions: CSRs ability to attract and retain key personnel, including engineers and technical personnel: the difficulty in predicting future results: and other risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, under the heading Risk Factors on pages 45 to 57.
Each forward looking statement speaks only as of the date hereof.
CSR does not undertake to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained herein, otherwise than required by law.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
This Annual Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 179 Who we are What we do Where we do it We deliver platforms that enrich consumer experience Automotive A leading provider of by connecting people, content and services.
wireless connectivity technology, we have 1,348 Connecting with leaders skilled professionals CSR is a leading provider of connectivity, audio operating out of and location platforms.
enhancing consumer experience worldwide through products delivered by market leaders in the mobile Cambridge, UK Aalborg, Denmark Taipei & Chungli, Taiwan Handsets GPS phone, automotive, consumer and computer Employees 621 Employees 37 Employees 38 industries.
In 2009, CSR won more Bluetooth design-wins than all of our competitors combined.
Connecting with your location With the acquisition of SiRF, we now have a leading position in connectivity and location platforms.
We can enhance the user experience with mainstream Cedar Rapids, USA Sophia Antipolis, France Bangalore & Noida, India Mono headsets PCs mobile devices by intelligent integration of multiple Employees 14 Employees 27 Employees 104 wireless connectivity and location-awareness technologies.
Never again should you be lost or disconnected.
Just look around, our technologies are used all over the world to help you be location aware and connected.
Connecting with extra senses Phoenix, USA Dallas, USA Stockholm, Sweden Beijing, Shanghai & Shenzhen, Stereo headsets Gaming Employees 50 Employees 26 Employees 21 China.
Employees 154 Our audio platforms significantly enhance consumer experience with voice and music in hands-free and headset environments.
Connecting with quality We have a global reputation for commercial and operational excellence.
Leaders in multiple markets Seoul & Gumi, South Korea Singapore San Jose & Santa Ana, USA Wi-Fi Consumer rely on us to deliver to their exacting standards.
Employees 41 Employees 7 Employees 159 Our GPS and Bluetooth technology is a leader in the automotive sector, a market renowned around the world for their incredibly high standards and quality requirements.
Connecting with opportunity CSR launched a completely refreshed product portfolio MP3 players Detroit, USA Tokyo, Japan in 2009 with new Bluetooth, GPS and Wi-Fi offerings.
Employees 23 Employees 26 There are a range of potential applications for these products to connect people, content and services.
Revive 50:50 Silk contains 50% recycled waste and 50% FSC certified and ECF Elemental Chlorine Free virgin pulp.
CSR plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Directors report Who we are What we do Where we do it 02 Chairmans statement 05 Chief Executives review 08 Business and Better connected financial review 45 Risk factors 58 Board of Directors 61 Corporate governance 73 Directors remuneration report 86 Other statutory information Financial statements 91 Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc 93 Consolidated income statement 94 Consolidated balance sheet 95 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 96 Consolidated cash flow statement 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 147 Company statement of comprehensive income 147 Company statement of changes in equity www.
com This is the Annual Report of CSR plc for the year ended 1 January 2010.
It complies 148 Company with UK regulations and is the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US regulations.
Cross references to the itemized balance sheet headings of the Form 20-F are included on page 176.
This Annual Report has been sent Our technology 149 Company cash flow to shareholders who have elected to receive a copy.
A separate notice of the annual general meeting to be held on 19 May 2010 has been issued to all shareholders.
statement In this Annual Report, references to CSR, the Group, the Company, we, and 149 Notes to the Company our are to CSR plc and its subsidiaries including SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. which financial statements became a subsidiary of CSR in June 2009 and lines of business, or any of them as the context may require.
is everywhere 156 Five year summary References to the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 are to the financial years ended 157 Directors report 1 January 2010 for 2009, 2 January 2009 for 2008 and 28 December 2007 for 2007.
Unless otherwise stated, all non-financial statistics are at 1 January 2010. corporate and share This Annual Report contains forward looking statements with respect to the information Groups financial condition, operating results and business strategy, plans and 172 CSRs worldwide offices objectives.
Please see the section entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements and the discussion of our principal risks and uncertainties 173 Glossary of in the section entitled Risk Factors.
industry terms This Annual Report includes measures which are not defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, such as International Financial Reporting Standards, 176 Form 20F Cross or IFRS.
These non-GAAP measures are included in this Annual Report because the Reference Guide directors believe they are useful to investors.
Our management uses these non-GAAP measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, 179 Cautionary note regarding in evaluating our operating performance and value creation.
These non-GAAP forward looking statements measures include underlying research and development expenses, underlying sales, marketing and administration expenses, underlying operating profit, underlying net profit, underlying diluted earnings per share and free cash flow.
For a detailed discussion of the reasons behind this presentation and full reconciliations of each measure to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to the discussion on pages 1516 and 3944.
Statutory income statement information is given on page 93 of the financial statements.
This Annual Report contains references to CSRs website.
These references are for convenience only we are not incorporating by reference any information posted on www.
This Annual Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park CSR plc Cowley Road Annual Report Cambridge and Form 20-F CB4 0WZ 2009
