Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 Accounting policies 55 Year ended 31 March 2009 Basis of preparation International Financial Reporting Interpretations The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented Committee IFRIC in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million IFRIC 15: Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective million except where otherwise indicated.
Currently not applicable to the Group IFRIC 16: Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have effective from 1 October 2008.
Applicable to the Group but been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European no impact Union EU.
The Company financial statements have been prepared IFRIC 17: Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in from 1 July 2009.
Currently not applicable to the Group accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The IFRIC 18: Transfers of Assets from Customers effective from 1 July Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under 2009.
Currently not applicable to the Group.
section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Upon adoption of IFRS 8 the number of segments reported by the Group will increase from 2 to 3 as disclosures will more closely follow The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signi cant risk the management approach.
The reportable segments will be of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets Dairies, Cheese and Spreads.
Upon the amendment to IAS 23 the and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of Group will capitalise all borrowing costs directly attributable to the the impairment of goodwill and measurement of fide ned bene t acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The Group determines whether goodwill the amendment to IFRS 2 the Group will accelerate the share based is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of payment charge resulting from participants leaving the sharesave the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill is scheme treating their leaving as a cancellation rather than a allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash ows and the forfeiture.
The fair value factor used at grant will be amended to selection of a suitable discount rate.
Measurement of fide ned re ect likely future exits.
Upon the amendment to IFRS 3 the Group bene t obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries will charge fees relating to a business acquisition to pro t and loss and in ation, mortality rates, the expected return on plan assets and not to goodwill, furthermore, any contingent consideration will and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
Further analysis of the key be measured at fair value with changes being credited charged to sources of estimation uncertainty and sensitivities are included in the pro t and loss.
relevant notes to the accounts.
Apart from these, the directors do not anticipate the adoption of The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: the Groups accounts in the period of initial application.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Consolidation IFRS 1 & IAS 27 amendment : Cost of an Investment in a The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate effective from Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each year 1 January 2009 using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and IFRS 8: Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009 transactions, including unrealised pro ts and losses arising from IAS 23 amendment : Borrowing Costs effective from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
1 January 2009 IAS 1 amendment : Presentation of Financial Statements Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the effective from 1 January 2009 date on which control is transferred to the Group.
At 31 March 2009, IFRS 2 amendment : Share-based Payments Vesting conditions minority interests represent the 20% interest in Wexford Creamery and Cancellations effective from 1 January 2009 Limited not held by the Group.
IFRS 3 amendment : Business Combinations effective from 1 July 2009 Interest in joint ventures IAS 27 amendment : Consolidated and Separate Financial The Groups investments in joint ventures are accounted for under Statements effective from 1 July 2009 the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are entities over IFRS 7 amendment : Financial instruments: Disclosures which the Group has joint control under contractual agreement and effective from 1 January 2009 which are not subsidiaries.
The company and joint ventures both use IAS 32 & IAS 1 amendment : Puttable Financial Instruments and consistent accounting policies.
The investment in joint ventures is Obligations Arising from Liquidation effective from 1 January 2009 carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes IAS 39 amendment : Eligible Hedged Items effective from in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any 1 January 2009 impairment in value and any distributions received.
The income statement re ects the share of the results of the joint ventures.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
0982 0982 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1055 55 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1055 55 2 6 09 2 6 09 15:47:22 15:47:22 The numbers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 56 Accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is Pound Sterling.
The functional currency of Wexford Creamery Limited and St Hubert An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon SAS, subsidiary companies incorporated in Ireland and France disposal or when no future economic bene ts are expected to arise respectively, is the Euro.
from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional statement in the year that it is derecognised.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Borrowing costs Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred in monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where accordance with IAS 23: Borrowing Costs.
deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Investments The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are being the fair value of consideration paid.
Income is recognised translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of from these investments only in relation to distributions received foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of from post-acquisition pro ts.
Distributions received in excess of exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange post-acquisition pro ts are deducted from the cost of investment.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less Goodwill exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate component to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions are met.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured Exchange differences relating to foreign currency borrowings that at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity remain in over the Groups acquirers interest in the net fair value of the equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, also dealt with in equity.
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was tested Property, plant and equipment for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated was identi ed.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is bene t from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating Freehold buildings: 25 years unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the period of the lease the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain Of ce equipment: 4 to 6 years or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of Vehicles: 4 to 10 years the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value exceeds goodwill, are Dairies, UK Spreads, St Hubert, Speciality Cheese the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down to its and Cheese excluding Speciality Cheese.
These represent the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management purposes is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
In and are no larger than the segments being Dairies and Foods.
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against speci c to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the independent cash ows, the recoverable amount is determined for business sold.
0982 0982 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1056 56 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1056 56 2 6 09 2 6 09 17:00:07 17:00:07 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 57 The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the Trade and other receivables transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original recorded under previous accounting rules.
IFRS 1 requires that an invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An impairment review of goodwill should be conducted in accordance estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount with IAS 36 at the date of transition and at the balance sheet date.
Bad debts are written off when identi ed.
This review was performed and no adjustment was required.
Cash and cash equivalents Intangible assets Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can For the purposes of the Consolidated cash ow statement, cash and be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as fide ned economic bene ts ow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, the above, net of bank overdrafts.
carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful Interest bearing loans lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or inde nite.
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have nite useful lives and the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the are amortised over 3 to 25 years.
The signi cant acquired brands borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and have useful lives as follows: borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking St Hubert 25 years into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on Le Fleurier 15 years settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in net pro t or loss Valle 15 years when the liabilities are derecognised.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, Net debt where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
The Group and Company fide ne net debt as cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases.
The Intangible assets acquired separately from business combinations calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial include software development expenditure.
Software is carried at instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to x foreign cost less accumulated amortisation.
Software is amortised over five currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash ow years.
Intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested hedges.
In this case the xed Sterling debt, not the underlying for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Classi cation of shares as debt or equity When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial Research and development liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the balance sheet: Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future recoverability at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as required by IAS 38: The corresponding dividends relating to the liability component are Intangible Assets.
charged as interest expense in the income statement.
The initial fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate Recoverable amount of non-current assets for an equivalent liability without a conversion feature.
The remainder At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of and included in shareholders equity, net of transaction costs.
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable The carrying amount of the equity component is not re-measured amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its in subsequent years.
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and equity higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs components of the shares based on the allocation of proceeds to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, to the liability and equity components when the instruments are unless the asset does not generate cash in ows that are largely first recognised.
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Retirement bene t obligations Inventories The asset or liability in respect of fide ned bene t schemes is the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
present value of the relevant fide ned bene t obligation at the balance Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for first out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing past service costs not yet recognised.
The independent actuary overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable fund and the Wexford Creamery plan triennially.
The obligation is value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business updated annually for financial reporting purposes by the actuary less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the 0982 0982 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1057 57 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1057 57 2 6 09 2 6 09 17:00:48 17:00:48 The numbers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 58 Accounting policies continued obligation is determined by the estimated future cash out ows using Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving The current service costs are recognised in operating costs in the at shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are included in shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised operating costs where the bene ts have vested, otherwise they are in the Consolidated income statement.
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded fide ned bene t schemes and The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to the interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise the finance apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after element of the pension cost and the difference between these 7 November 2002. amounts are included in other finance income or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes Leased assets in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full and are charged or Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group credited to the consolidated statement of recognised income and substantially all the risks and bene ts incidental to ownership of the expense in the period in which they arise.
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum IFRIC 14 has been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2008. lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is The recognition of any retirement bene t surplus as calculated by the included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, is limited lease rentals is charged to the Consolidated income statement in the to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of any real year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and cash bene t the Company will obtain in the future through either bene ts of ownership of the asset are classi ed as operating leases.
reduced potential contributions or cash on a winding up of Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated income the scheme.
In order to calculate the potential future bene ts statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements agreed between the Company and the Pension Trustee.
Revenue Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on Share based payments delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods Equity based performance payments net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based sales within the Group.
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees in consideration for the equity instrument.
Equity-settled share based Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date by an payment is established.
external valuer using a Monte Carlo option-pricing model.
The costs of equity settled transactions are recognised on a straight-line basis Other income over the vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised for Other income comprises the pro t on disposal of closed sites and equity settled transactions at each reporting date until vesting re ects household depots.
the expired vesting period and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors, will eventually vest after adjusting for the Exceptional items expected achievement of non-market performance conditions.
Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income The amount charged to the consolidated income statement is statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, credited to reserves.
which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, understanding of the underlying operational performance of the except for awards where vesting is conditional on market conditions, Group.
The pro ts arising on disposal of closed sites, other than which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market as a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional conditions are satis ed.
Exceptional items are not excluded from the basic earnings per share calculation.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at 80% of the fair value at the grant date Government and other grants Sharesave Scheme.
The Group records an expense, based on the Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where estimate of the 20% discount related to the shares expected to vest there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all on a straight-line basis over the vesting period using a Black-Scholes attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates option pricing model.
to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs The Company adopted IFRIC 11 in the year ended 31 March 2008. that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the released to the consolidated income statement over the expected Companys balance sheet.
useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
0982 0982 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1058 58 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1058 58 2 6 09 2 6 09 15:44:44 15:44:44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 59 Income tax available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group and Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount Company determines the classi cation of financial assets at initial expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial yearbased on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the Derivative instruments balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest as indicated below.
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency uctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value differences except: at the reported balance sheet date.
where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, similar maturity pro les.
The fair value of interest rate swap and at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to pro t nor taxable pro t or loss: and market values for similar instruments and speci c valuations in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with performed by counterparties at the period end.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classi ed differences can be controlled and it is probable that the as either: temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and cash ow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro t cash ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can transaction, or a rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange be utilised except: exposure: or net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting pro t hedges during the year.
nor taxable pro t or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with Cash ow hedges investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint In relation to cash ow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in the foreseeable future and taxable pro t will be available against equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the Consolidated which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed When the hedged rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the longer probable that suf cient taxable pro t will be available to allow recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been asset or liability.
For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income that are recognised in equity are transferred to the Consolidated tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects equity and not in the income statement.
the net pro t and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For Financial assets derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or The Group and Company classi es financial assets that are within losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the the scope of IAS 39 as financial assets at fair value through pro t Consolidated income statement for the year.
and loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: or as 0982 0982 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1059 59 Dairy Crest Accounts p52-1059 59 29 5 09 29 5 09 19:11:03 19:11:03 The numbers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 60 Accounting policies continued Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation of those borrowings are recognised in equity.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised in the Consolidated income statement whenever applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recycled through the consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis being at least half-yearly to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
When the contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and treated as described above.
