Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Impairment Accounting policies A review is performed for any indication that the value of the Groups D&P assets may be 02 for the Group financial impaired.
statements continued For D&P assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is carried out on the CGU.
Each CGU is identified in accordance with IAS 36.
Danas CGUs are those assets which generate largely independent cash flows and are normally, but not always, single development or production areas.
If necessary, additional depletion is charged through the income statement if the capitalised costs of the CGU exceed the associated estimated future discounted cash flows of the related commercial oil and gas reserves.
Asset purchases and disposals When a commercial transaction involves the purchase of a D&P asset in exchange for an E&E asset, the transaction is accounted for at fair value with the difference between fair value and cost being taken to the income statement.
When a commercial transaction involves the exchange of E&E assets of similar size and characteristics, no fair value calculation is performed.
The capitalised costs of the asset being sold are transferred to the asset being acquired.
However, where the size and characteristics of the E&E assets significantly differ, the transaction is accounted for at fair value with the difference between fair value and cost being taken to the income statement.
Proceeds from the entire disposal of an E&E asset are deducted from the capitalised costs of the asset with any surplus deficit taken to the income statement as a gain or loss on sale.
Proceeds from a part disposal of an E&E asset are deducted from the capitalised cost of the asset with any surplus taken to the income statement as a gain on sale.
Proceeds from the entire disposal of a D&P asset, or any part thereof, are taken to the income statement together with the requisite proportional net book value of the asset, or part thereof, being sold.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the balance sheet.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate CGU for the purpose of impairment testing.
Decommissioning The Group recognises the full discounted cost of decommissioning when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises, principally on development sanction.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
A corresponding D&P asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the D&P asset.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the D&P asset.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is included as a finance cost.
Property, plant and equipment other than D&P assets Property, plant and equipment other than D&P assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Equipment 10% 25% Computer equipment 33% Finance costs and debt Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for the intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use of sale.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are amortised and charged to the income statement as finance costs over the term of the debt.
68 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
