Share based payments Accounting policies The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment to all grants of equity 02 for the Group financial instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005. statements continued The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments as an incentive to certain key management and staff.
Equity-settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioral considerations.
For cash-settled share based payments, a liability is recognised based on the current fair value determined at each reporting date and that portion of the employees services to which the payment relates that has been received by the reporting date.
Impact of new standards and interpretations The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2009: IFRS 2: Share based payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations This standard has been amended to clarify the definition of vesting conditions and to prescribe the accounting treatment of an award that is effectively cancelled because a non-vesting condition is not satisfied.
The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures This standard requires enhanced disclosure relating to the fair value measurements and liquidity risk of financial instruments.
The adoption of the revised standard has not had any impact on the Groups reported income or net assets and the required disclosure is detailed throughout this annual report.
IFRS 8: Operating Segments This standard requires disclosure of information about the Groups operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Group.
Adoption of this standard did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group determined that it has three operating segments which are Europe, Egypt and Other International.
Previously under IAS 14 Segment Reporting the Group only had one business segment which was the exploration for and production of hydrocarbon liquids and gas.
See note 4 for the relevant disclosures for these segments.
IAS 1: Revised Presentation of Financial Statements The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income.
It presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
The adoption of the revised standard has not impacted the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 23: Borrowing Costs The standard has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets.
This is already in line with the Groups current accounting policy.
IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1: Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation The standards have been amended to allow a limited scope exception for puttable financial instruments to be classified as equity if they fulfill a number of specified criteria.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the financial position of performance of the Group.
No IFRIC issued in the period has had an impact on the Group.
In May 2008 and April 2009 the IASB issued an omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
The amendments applicable to 31 December 2009 did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group and it is not anticipated that the improvements effective for periods after 31 December 2009 will have any impact on the Group.
71 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
