Foreign currencies Accounting policies The functional currency for material subsidiaries is either Pounds Sterling, Norwegian Kroner or 02 for the Group financial US Dollar.
statements continued Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into pounds sterling at year-end rates of exchange, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of profits and losses from average to year-end rates, are taken directly to the cumulative translation reserve.
All other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions denominated in local currencies are re-measured into the functional currency at the rate ruling on the date that they arose.
Oil and gas expenditure The Group accounts for oil and gas expenditure as follows: Intangible assets Exploration and Evaluation assets Capitalisation Certain costs other than payments to acquire the legal right to explore incurred prior to acquiring the rights to explore are charged directly to the income statement.
All costs incurred after the rights to explore an area have been obtained, such as geological and geophysical costs and other direct costs of exploration drilling, trenching, sampling and technical feasibility and commercial viability activities and appraisal are accumulated and capitalised as intangible exploration and evaluation E&E assets.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
At completion of appraisal activities if technical feasibility is demonstrated and commercial reserves are discovered, then, following development sanction, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset will be reclassified as a development and production asset, but only after the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset has been assessed for impairment, and where appropriate, its carrying value adjusted.
If after completion of appraisal activities in an area, it is not possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right to explore expires or if the Company decides not to continue exploration and evaluation activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful exploration and evaluation is written off to the income statement in the period the relevant events occur.
Impairment If and when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an E&E asset may exceed its recoverable amount an impairment review is performed.
For E&E assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is carried out by grouping the E&E assets with the development & production assets belonging to the same geographic segment to form the Cash Generating Unit CGU for impairment testing.
The equivalent combined carrying value of the CGU is compared against the CGUs recoverable amount and any resulting impairment loss is written off to the income statement.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Property, plant and equipment Development and Production assets Capitalisation Development and production D&P assets are accumulated into single field cost centres and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves and bringing them into production together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves previously transferred from E&E assets as outlined in the policy above.
Depreciation Costs relating to each single field cost centre are depleted on a unit of production method based on the commercial proven and probable reserves for that cost centre.
Development assets are not depreciated until production commences.
The amortisation calculation takes account of the estimated future costs of development of recognised proven and probable reserves, based on current price levels.
Changes in reserve quantities and cost estimates are recognised prospectively from the last reporting date.
Currently there are no significant items of property, plant and equipment deemed to have different useful lives.
67 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
