Investment in associates Accounting policies The Groups interest in its associate, being that entity over which it is deemed to have significant 02 for the Group financial influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, is accounted for using the equity statements continued method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in its associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
The Groups statement of change in equity reflects the Groups share of the fair value of the associates net assets value on initial recognition and any subsequent movement in the fair value of the net assets of the associate required to be recognised directly in equity.
Financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group: to take into account movement in the fair values assigned at the date of the acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Group determines the classification of its available-for-sale financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
When available-for-sale financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories comprise materials and equipment, which are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing the materials and equipment to its present condition and location.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original invoiced amount.
Other receivables, excluding underlifted amounts, are measured at nominal value.
Underlifted amounts are measured at market value in accordance with industry practice.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables, excluding overlifted amounts, are measured at cost.
Overlifted amounts are measured at market value in accordance with industry practice.
Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured.
The liability component is carried at amortised cost.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
Share issue expenses and share premium account Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issue of share capital.
69 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
