Considering the above, the Remuneration Committee assessed that Annual bonus potential an award of 50% of the maximum bonus potential was appropriate Policy 2009 & 2010: upper quartile when judging by the achievements of the Executive team against Bonuses are typically assessed based on the level of the Companys the above priorities and when looking at a broader picture of the performance against the following financial and operational Companys performance over the period.
priorities: The general targets for the annual bonus plan are reviewed and Reserves Replacement agreed by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that they are appropriate to the current position of the Company.
The Execution of Planned Exploration Drilling Programme Committee is in no doubt that in the current economic environment, achieving substantial progress in these priority areas will continue to Delivery of Development Projects be extremely challenging.
Delivery and Completion of New Commercial Transactions Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus HS&E Performance arrangements.
Financial Performance Potential annual share awards Production Growth Policy 2009 & 2010: upper quartile The structure of any bonuses paid is as follows: The Remuneration Committees policy is to provide annual share an individual is free to elect for up to 100% of any bonus paid grants to Executives at the upper quartile level compared to the to be paid in shares which have to be retained for 24 months: CG.
Ongoing share incentives, excluding all employee plans, subject to are provided to the Executive Directors solely through the LTIP.
any bonus over 100% of salary must be paid in shares which The Remuneration Committee believes that share awards under have to be retained for 24 months: and the LTIP enable the Company to provide a competitive incentive and retention tool which is also cost effective in respect of both in all cases, a minimum of 25% of any bonus earned must be shareholder dilution and income statement expense.
Furthermore, committed to shares which have to be retained for 24 months, the underlying performance conditions attached to LTIP awards with any balance paid in cash.
ensures that the Companys comparative TSR performance against the CG is at least at the upper decile before Executives will receive in determining the number of shares to be awarded the the full benefit of their share incentives.
This structure demonstrates Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to use the the Remuneration Committees desire to correlate incentive average share price over the relevant period.
arrangements with the achievement of substantial performance.
The Companys annual bonus scheme caps the maximum bonus Recognising the challenging economic backdrop, the Remuneration potential at 100% of salary for the Finance Director and the Committee elected to defer the LTIP award scheduled for 2009.
Technical and Commercial Director, with a cap of 150% in respect of the Chief Executive.
The same maximum bonus potential will apply The following table sets out the level of release of current subsisting for 2010.
LTIP awards if the Companys performance measured as at 31 December 2009 continued until the end of the relevant Bonus payments are not pensionable.
The Remuneration Committee considered the levels of bonus earned in respect of 2009 in light of the following: the Companys long-term ROCE performance see LTIP section : the Companys comparative TSR performance see LTIP section : the achievements of the business over the year as outlined above: and the prevailing economic background.
51 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview Governance Report on Directors Remuneration continued Potential annual share awards continued LTIP Grant ROCE Condition Company TSR Ranking Percentage of Award Released if Against CG Performance Measured as at 31 December 2009 continued to the end of the relevant Performance Period 2006 LTIP Grant Satisfied 54 of 256 companies 68.0% 2007 LTIP Grant Satisfied 33 of 255 companies 93.9% 2008 LTIP Grant Satisfied 115 of 271 companies 40.9% Represents actual award on 1 February 2010 vesting date The operation of the LTIP and the main terms and conditions are set out in the following table: Feature Terms & Conditions Maximum global limit p. a.
Global limit under all elements of the LTIP is 400% of salary p. a.
Operation of the LTIP Maximum Level 1 Grant is 400% of salary less the Level 2 Grant proposed by the Remuneration Committee provided that to receive a Level 1 Grant an Executive must have purchased shares equivalent to 50% of the proposed award level i. e. for an Executive to qualify for a 200% of salary grant under Level 1 of the LTIP he would have to purchase shares equivalent to 100% of his net salary.
Maximum Level 2 Grant is 200% of salary.
Maximum Level 3 Grant is 100% of salary.
Level 3 grants may be made to senior managers within the Group and cannot be made to Executive Directors of the Company.
Performance Conditions Threshold Condition no part of the award will be capable of release unless the Companys average annual ROCE over the three year performance period is at or above 10% p. a.
Main Performance Condition once the Threshold Condition has been satisfied the release of the award will be subject to the Companys comparative TSR performance compared to the CG.
30% of the award will be released for median performance, 65% Level 3 100% for upper quartile performance with full release only for upper decile performance.
The CG for the purposes of the TSR performance condition consists of the constituents of the FTSE 250 and the members of the CG set out on page 50 and those used for benchmarking remuneration.
Shareholding Guideline The Remuneration Committee introduced a Shareholding Guideline in conjunction with the new LTIP to encourage a minimum level of shareholding amongst all the Executive Directors, in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
The shareholding to be established over a five year period as a percentage of salary is 400% for the Chief Executive and 200% for the other Executive Directors.
Their 2009 year end shareholding as a percentage of 2009 salary is 3,041% for the Chief Executive, 500% for the Finance Director and 162% for the Technical & Commercial Director.
Basis of performance conditions: selection & measurement conditions for share awards are satisfied.
Where the performance requirements are based on ROCE, the Committee will use the ROCE was selected as one of the performance conditions for the principles behind the audited figures disclosed in the Companys awards by the Remuneration Committee because: financial statements, and may take advice from independent advisors as to whether any adjustments are required to ensure consistency in ROCE measures the efficiency with which capital is employed accordance with the terms of the performance conditions.
Where the by the management of the Company and therefore is much less performance measure is TSR, PWC, the Remuneration Committees vulnerable to peaks and troughs in revenue: advisors, shall calculate the TSR in accordance with the rules of the ROCE helps to ensure the most effective allocation of capital LTIP and confirm these figures prior to the release of any award.
investment within the business: and As previously stated, the Remuneration Committee have instructed ROCE also helps to ensure that any investments by the Company PWC to assist the Committee in formulating a new long term are effectively incorporated and deliver the required level of return incentive plan for implementation during 2010 to be focused on the capital used to make them.
This will provide assurance on value creation and a structure that supports the Companys that the Companys investment strategy will be value driven rather business strategy going forward, while reflecting the wider economic than earnings driven which is appropriate for an exploration-led environment and regulatory developments.
Dilution Comparative TSR was selected as one of the performance conditions In accordance with the Association of British Insurers ABI for the awards by the Remuneration Committee as it ensures that the guidelines, the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued Executives have delivered competitive returns with respect to their share capital in a rolling ten year period to employees under all its peers over the measurement period before being entitled to receive share plans.
In addition, of this 10% the Company can only issue any of their awards irrespective of general market conditions.
5% to satisfy awards under discretionary or Executive plans.
The The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance Company operates all its share plans within these guidelines.
52 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
