Auditors Creditors payment policy A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the The Company and Group policy is to agree payment terms with Company is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
individual suppliers and to abide by these terms.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
Going concern Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect the Group financial statements its future development, performance and financial position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 12.
The financial position of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 35.
In addition, notes Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards 2, 23 and 24 include the Groups objectives, policies and processes IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
for managing its capital: and the risks associated with its financial The Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements for instruments.
each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the In February 2009, the Group secured a new three year USD 400 million Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for revolving credit facility.
This was subsequently syndicated that period.
In preparing those Group financial statements the Directors to a group of eight banks later in the year see note 20.
At the are required to: end of 2009, the Group had net headroom of approximately select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: USD 360 million under this facility a significant improvement on the Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, projected year end position when the facility was originally secured.
and then apply them consistently: The facility is subject to compliance with a number of covenants typical for a facility of this nature and covenant compliance is tested on a six present information, including accounting policies, in a manner monthly basis.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable of reasonably possible changes in the underlying assumptions, confirm information: that the Group can undertake its desired work programmes for the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific period 12 months from the current reporting date within the current requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand bank facility, which has approximately two more years to maturity.
A the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions number of these planned activities have yet to be formally committed, on the Groups financial position and financial performance: providing further flexibility to the Group in managing its future cashflows.
state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and From dialogue with members of the syndicate, the Group can reasonably assume that access to further credit, and or a facility prepare the Group financial statements on the going concern basis extension or renewal would be forthcoming on acceptable terms and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in no matters have been drawn to its attention to suggest otherwise.
a matter of course, the Group expects to review its mid term financing plans during 2010.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable financial statements comply with the Companies Acts and Article 4 future and continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the preparing the annual financial statements.
assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Interests in contracts Under applicable UK law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Directors There have been no contracts or arrangements during the financial Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Report that comply year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and with the laws and those regulations.
which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
45 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
