Considering the above, the Remuneration Committee assessed that Annual bonus potential an award of 50% of the maximum bonus potential was appropriate Policy 2009 & 2010: upper quartile when judging by the achievements of the Executive team against Bonuses are typically assessed based on the level of the Companys the above priorities and when looking at a broader picture of the performance against the following financial and operational Companys performance over the period.
priorities: The general targets for the annual bonus plan are reviewed and Reserves Replacement agreed by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that they are appropriate to the current position of the Company.
The Execution of Planned Exploration Drilling Programme Committee is in no doubt that in the current economic environment, achieving substantial progress in these priority areas will continue to Delivery of Development Projects be extremely challenging.
Delivery and Completion of New Commercial Transactions Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus HS&E Performance arrangements.
Financial Performance Potential annual share awards Production Growth Policy 2009 & 2010: upper quartile The structure of any bonuses paid is as follows: The Remuneration Committees policy is to provide annual share an individual is free to elect for up to 100% of any bonus paid grants to Executives at the upper quartile level compared to the to be paid in shares which have to be retained for 24 months: CG.
Ongoing share incentives, excluding all employee plans, subject to are provided to the Executive Directors solely through the LTIP.
any bonus over 100% of salary must be paid in shares which The Remuneration Committee believes that share awards under have to be retained for 24 months: and the LTIP enable the Company to provide a competitive incentive and retention tool which is also cost effective in respect of both in all cases, a minimum of 25% of any bonus earned must be shareholder dilution and income statement expense.
Furthermore, committed to shares which have to be retained for 24 months, the underlying performance conditions attached to LTIP awards with any balance paid in cash.
ensures that the Companys comparative TSR performance against the CG is at least at the upper decile before Executives will receive in determining the number of shares to be awarded the the full benefit of their share incentives.
This structure demonstrates Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to use the the Remuneration Committees desire to correlate incentive average share price over the relevant period.
arrangements with the achievement of substantial performance.
The Companys annual bonus scheme caps the maximum bonus Recognising the challenging economic backdrop, the Remuneration potential at 100% of salary for the Finance Director and the Committee elected to defer the LTIP award scheduled for 2009.
Technical and Commercial Director, with a cap of 150% in respect of the Chief Executive.
The same maximum bonus potential will apply The following table sets out the level of release of current subsisting for 2010.
LTIP awards if the Companys performance measured as at 31 December 2009 continued until the end of the relevant Bonus payments are not pensionable.
The Remuneration Committee considered the levels of bonus earned in respect of 2009 in light of the following: the Companys long-term ROCE performance see LTIP section : the Companys comparative TSR performance see LTIP section : the achievements of the business over the year as outlined above: and the prevailing economic background.
51 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
