Report on Directors Remuneration The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this This report has been prepared in report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies accordance with Schedule 8 Quoted Act 2006 as amended by the Regulations.
The report is therefore Companies: Directors Remuneration divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The report also meets Responsibilities the relevant requirements of the Listing The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: Rules of the Financial Services Authority setting a senior remuneration strategy that ensures the most talented leaders are recruited, retained and motivated to and describes how the Board has deliver results: applied the principles and complied with ensuring that the remuneration for the Chief Executive, the provisions of the 2008 Combined Executive Directors and senior managers reflects both their individual performance and their contribution to the overall Code Combined Code on Corporate Company results: Governance relating to Directors determining the terms of employment and remuneration for remuneration.
As required by the the Chief Executive, Executive Directors and senior managers, including recruitment and termination terms: Regulations, an advisory resolution to approving the design and targets for any annual incentive approve the report will be proposed at schemes that include the Chief Executive, Executive Directors the AGM of the Company at which the and senior managers: financial statements will be approved.
agreeing the design and targets, where applicable, of all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval: assessing the appropriateness and subsequent achievement of the performance targets related to any share incentive plans: and selecting and appointing the external advisors to the Committee.
The Committee members have no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Part 2 of the Regulations unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee during the year are shown opposite.
In 2009, the Committee continued to engage  LLP PWC formerly Halliwell Consulting Committee members above right to left before acquisition by PWC and received wholly independent advice Ian Rawlinson Remuneration Committee Chairman on executive compensation.
As in previous years, the Company continued to engage PWC for taxation services in Norway and Egypt Philip Dayer and for the audit of Bow Valley statutory accounts for 2008.
Brian Johnston The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference and its main responsibilities are detailed above.
The Committee met three times during 2009 with each Member attending all the meetings.
47 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
