Notes to the Group Financial Statements The Groups financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 Authorisation of were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 March 2010 and the balance sheet was 01 financial statements signed on the Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and David A MacFarlane.
Dana Petroleum plc and statement of is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The compliance with Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
IFRS The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with items which are Accounting policies considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
02 for the Group financial Basis of accounting statements The financial information has been prepared using accounting policies consistent with IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations adopted by the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain fair value adjustments required by those accounting policies.
Accounting estimates The Groups accounting policies make use of estimates and judgements in the following areas: Goodwill, Impairment, Depreciation, Decommissioning, Investment in Associates, Derivative Financial Instruments and Share-based Payments.
These are described in more detail in the relevant accounting policy and related notes to the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings having eliminated all inter-company transactions and balances.
Acquisitions Business combinations are dealt with on the basis of the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets acquired or assets given up in the case of swap transactions, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of completion of the acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of are included excluded in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control legally passes.
Joint Ventures The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production through unincorporated joint ventures and production sharing contracts together Joint Ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of these Joint Ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In addition, where Dana acts as operator to the Joint Venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the Joint Venture are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups current Joint Venture interests are detailed on pages 108 to 110.
Revenue Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, in respect of liftings sold.
Due to the fact that the Group follows the entitlement basis, adjustments in respect of overlift liftings greater than production entitlement and underlift production entitlement greater than liftings are recorded in against cost of sales at market value.
Where appropriate, entitlement revenue also includes an allowance for the gross up for tax paid on the Companys behalf by host governments.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis and is disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
66 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
