Notes to the Company Financial Statements These financial statements have been prepared in pounds sterling under the historical cost Accounting policies convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain Investments and Financial Instruments in 34 accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Dividends Dividends received are included in the accounts in the period the related dividends are actually received.
Property, plant & equipment PP&E PP&E assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on PP&E assets to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic life on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Equipment 10% - 25% Computer equipment 33% Investments in associates and subsidiaries Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are included in the financial statements at cost less provisions for impairment.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: provision is made for tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Issue expenses and share premium account Cost of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issue of share capital.
Foreign currencies The functional currency for the Company is pounds sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Pensions The Company contributes to the personal pension arrangements of Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
102 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
