Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Taxation Accounting policies Current tax 02 for the Group financial statements continued Current tax is recognised as a liability to the extent unpaid or if the amount paid exceeds the amount due it is recognised as an asset.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid recovered from the taxation authorities, using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither, accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future income tax profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
PRT and NPI tax UK PRT and Norwegian NPI tax are treated as income taxes and deferred PRT and deferred NPI tax is calculated and provided for.
Current UK PRT and Norwegian NPI tax are charged as tax expenses on the chargeable field profits included in the income statement and are deductible for UK and Norwegian corporation tax respectively.
Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension arrangements of Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured at their fair value at each subsequent reporting date.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Fair value estimation of financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-forsale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
Other financial instruments are valued using standard pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Maintenance expenditure Expenditure on major maintenance, refits or repairs is capitalised where it enhances the life or performance of an asset above its originally assessed standard of performance: replaces an asset or part of an asset which was separately depreciated and which is then written off, or restores the economic benefits of an asset which has been fully depreciated.
All other maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
70 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
