Company Report of the Auditors Independent auditors report to the members of Dana Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Petroleum plc Companies Act 2006 We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Dana In our opinion: Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 2006: and applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the parent company financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report by in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement received from branches not visited by us: or on page 46, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the parent Company financial statements and the part of parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical are not made: or Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matters disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2009. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Douglas Nisbet Senior statutory auditor financial statements.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Aberdeen Opinion on financial statements 26 March 2010 In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
100 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
