Governance Report on Directors Remuneration continued Comparator Group 2009 & 2010 Balance between fixed & variable performance based compensation The constituents of the Companys Comparator Group CG for benchmarking remuneration during 2009 were as follows: The application of the Remuneration Committees policy summarised on pages 49 and 50 in relation to the balance between fixed and A P Moller-Maersk A S Melrose Resources plc variable performance based compensation for each Executive Director BASF AG Wintershall Nexen Inc. is shown below for the year ended 31 December 2009.
BG Group plc Occidental Petroleum Corp. BP plc Premier Oil plc Fixed Compensation 64% 36% T P Cross Variable Compensation Cairn Energy plc Petro-Canada Canadian Natural Resources Royal Dutch Shell plc Fixed Compensation: 72% 28% D A MacFarlane Salary Centrica plc RWE AG Benefits Pension Contribution Chevron Corporation Soco International plc Variable Compensation: S M Paton 72% 28% Bonus Payable ConocoPhillips Statoil ASA Fair Market Value of LTIP Eon AG.
Svenska ExxonMobil Talisman Energy Inc.
The balance of the package has been distorted by the decision not to Etab Maurel et Prom Total SA make any LTIP awards during 2009 for the reasons stated elsewhere Gaz fide France Tullow Oil plc which has resulted in the fixed elements of the remuneration package Hess Corporation Venture Production plc representing a larger proportion of the whole.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Woodside Petroleum Ltd Elements of Executive Directors remuneration Lukoil Policy 2009: lower quartile to median quartile During the year, Venture production plc was acquired by Centrica PLC.
The table below sets out the salaries for 2009 Factors the Remuneration Committee took into account when selecting Name 2009 Salary Median 2009 the CG included: Salary in Comparator the industry within which the Company operates, specifically Group taking into account both the international nature of the Companys T P Cross 687,000 678,000 business, its coventurers and competitors D A MacFarlane 310,000 375,000 the UK listing environment of the Company: and S M Paton 290,000 274,000 the market capitalisation, turnover and number of countries in which the Company operates.
General The Remuneration Committee, mindful of the need in the prevailing Throughout this report, references to quartiles are to quartiles in the economic climate to exercise prudence when increasing the fixed CG.
It is the Committees current intention to use the same CG to costs of the Company, has therefore changed its targeted salary policy benchmark the Companys Executive compensation in 2010 and as for experienced Executive Directors from upper quartile to median for part of the CG for the total shareholder return TSR performance 2009.
The Committees first step in moving towards this policy was to condition attached to any further awards under the Dana Petroleum plc freeze 2009 salaries at 2008 levels.
2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
In addition, for 2009, the Remuneration Committee used the When determining the salary of the Executive Directors the Committee constituents of the FTSE 250 as a secondary CG to provide a takes into consideration: wider market view on remuneration levels and trends.
The FTSE the levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable 250 constituents form the remaining part of the CG for the TSR status, responsibility and skills, in organisations of broadly similar performance condition attached to awards under the LTIP.
It is the size and complexity, in particular the levels of base salary at those Committees current intention to adopt the same approach for 2010. comparable companies within the FTSE Oil and Gas Producers sector and the CG: the performance of the individual Executive Director: the individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and pay and conditions throughout the Company.
50 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Executive Director
