Decommissioning provision Provisions for 22 liabilities and 000 charges At 1 January 2009 94,135 New provisions and changes in estimates 3,555 Release of provision on sale of asset 2,028 Unwinding of discount note 7 6,497 Exchange adjustments 2,471 Expenditure incurred 1,222 At 31 December 2009 103,408 The decommissioning provision of 103,408,000 relates primarily to the Groups production and development facilities.
These costs are expected to be incurred at various intervals over the next 27 years.
The provision has been estimated using existing technology at current prices, escalated at 2.5%, and discounted at 7%.
The economic life and the timing of the decommissioning liabilities are dependent on Government legislation, commodity price and the future production profiles of the respective production and development facilities.
In addition, the costs of decommissioning are subject to inflationary deflationary pressures in the cost of third party service provision.
An outline of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the Group in relation to financial Financial instruments instruments is set out in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 35 of this report, and in note 2 on 23 pages 66 to 72.
Nature and extent of risk associated with financial instruments Market risk As an upstream oil & gas company, the Company is subject to many risks, at both the macro and micro level, including currency, interest and credit risk, arising in the normal course of the Groups business.
The Business Review on pages 7 and 8 describes these risks in more detail, but also provides the Companys view of the principal risks facing the Company that potentially have a medium to high impact on the Company.
In particular, this highlights a number of risks which have emerged as a result of the rapid deterioration of the global economy into recession and the liquidity and credit crises in the world banking markets.
Risks such as inability to finance work programmes, or potential default of coventurers and suppliers are all now higher profile risks facing the sector and the Company.
During 2009, the Company secured a new source of bank funding for the next three years and continues to generally partner with larger, wellestablished upstream companies, so believes it has substantially mitigated these risks.
The Company has a geographically diverse portfolio of assets and remains unhedged with respect to commodity price, interest rates and currency fluctuations.
Specific financial instrument risks are therefore deemed to be of low probability in nature and of low impact in quantum relative to the macro risks highlighted above.
It is against this backdrop and context that the following disclosure on the nature and extent of risks from financial instruments is provided.
Financial assets and liabilities: credit risk The financial assets of the Group are subject to floating charges provided to the debt provider for the new debt facility secured during the year note 20.
As such the financial assets are subject to certain terms and conditions further explained below which help preserve the credit worthiness of the asset to the debt providers.
Cash and cash equivalents Unless agreed otherwise, all such balances must be maintained with institutions party to the debt facility.
The Group may however, make money market deposits for up to six months duration and up to 40,000,000, with any institution whose senior unsecured credit and unguaranteed long term corporate debt rating is at least equivalent to Standard and Poors AA-.
87 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009 Additional information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
