NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the financial statement are shown in note 43.
The financial information set out on pages 40 to 100 comprises the consolidated financial statements of KESA Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2009 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Basis of preparation In order to improve internal planning processes, the Group has moved its financial year end to 30 April.
These are the second accounts prepared to this new reporting date.
The first accounts to this new reporting date were for the 15 months to 30 April 2008, which constitutes this years comparative information.
Therefore the two periods presented will not be entirely comparable for the purpose of the income statement, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statements and related notes.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and retirement benefits.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
All significant consolidated companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates and joint ventures Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 45 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies continued The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the undertaking operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the parents functional currency and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transaction and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the available-for-sale reserve in equity.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are taken to shareholders funds.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
46 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 1 Accounting policies continued Use of adjusted measures Kesa Electricals plc believes that retail profit and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders.
Retail Profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation gains and losses, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets and exceptional restructuring costs.
Adjusted earnings per share provides additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders.
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term retail profit is not defined by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
Exceptional items The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of the Groups result from year to year.
Segmental information The Group has a single business segment: the retailing of electrical products and related services.
The geographical segments in which the Groups primary segment for reporting purposes operates are as follows: Darty France France Comet UK Other includes BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart, Darty Italy, Darty Switzerland, Darty Turkey and Menaje del Hogar Reported segment results represent the retail profit of each segment.
Unallocated items comprise corporate head office expenses and Group funding costs.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, trade and other receivables, inventories, prepayments and accrued income.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, accruals, deferred income and post employment benefit obligations.
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related assets, accrued expenses and provisions.
Unallocated assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates and is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents a separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for managing the cash flow of that unit.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 47 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies continued b Other intangible assets i Brands, trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences are shown at historic cost.
Trademarks and licences have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks and licences over their estimated useful lives 15-20 years.
ii Software Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Other costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
iii Leasehold rights Intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life consist of payments made in advance in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises.
These are not amortised, but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
An indefinite useful life is deemed appropriate for these assets as their value does not diminish systematically over time and they can normally be re-sold.
Property, plant and equipment tangible fixed assets Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate.
Only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the assets useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 1,000 or equivalent are these costs included in the carrying amount.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial year in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, and the depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows: Freehold Buildings 20 years Long Leasehold 20 years or remaining lease term if shorter Short Leasehold over the remaining period of the lease Tenants fixtures and improvements between five and 20 years Computers and electronic equipment between two and four years Motor cars and commercial vehicles between two and five years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Estimated recoverable amounts are reviewed at least annually.
When properties are sold the difference between the sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the income statement.
Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows as cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The discount rate is applied based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
48 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 1 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition.
These include financial assets that are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the Companys investment and risk strategy.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit and loss category are included in finance costs income in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading.
A financial liability is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities.
These include financial liabilities that are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the Companys investment and risk strategy.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 49 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as cash flow hedges.
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement.
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a periodic basis.
Should these derivatives fail the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly.
To the extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled.
To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The value of inventory includes the purchase price and transport costs to our warehouses and retail stores including trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of products.
Cost of product sales represents the value of stock sold when recognised in revenue.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against selling and marketing costs in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists.
Other bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
50 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 1 Accounting policies continued Share capital The Group only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred income tax Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and adjustments to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are supplemental to contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes.
Company sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefits pension plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately outside the income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 51 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies continued For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in the income statement as an employee benefit expense when they are incurred.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b Share-based compensation The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the awards is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of awards that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
c Termination benefits ,  in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
Restructuring provisions, comprising lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions for WEEE fees incurred across the Group are recognised in compliance with each of the local territories adopted legislation in response to the Directive.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities as described below.
The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved.
The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement.
Revenues from the provision of sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, which ever is the later.
Retail sales are usually settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
Revenues from services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
52 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 1 Accounting policies continued The Group sells extended warranty contracts.
Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these contracts the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of manufacturers warranty.
Where the Group sells an extended warranty contract and a third-party insurance company has responsibility for contractual obligations commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale.
Where part of the obligation under these contracts is re-insured by the Group the revenue relating to the re-insurance is recognised over the period for which re-insurance is provided, excluding any period of manufacturers warranty.
Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements and is included within other income.
Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group or any of its subsidiaries are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.
Assets capitalised as property, plant and equipment are amortised in accordance with Group depreciation policy.
Payments under such leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the income statement over the full period of the finance lease on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Contingent assets and liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities arise from conditions or situations, the outcome of which depends on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where they are probable.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale, and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Events occurring after the balance sheet date The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant a modification of these values.
These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the accounts by the Board of Directors.
Other non-adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where they are probable.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 53 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Effect of new standards, amendments and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective in 2008-2009 IFRIC 11, Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury shares or involving group entities should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled, share-based payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the parent and Group companies.
The Group has applied IFRIC 11 from 1 May 2008, however it is of minimal impact.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective but not relevant IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements.
This IFRIC interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 12 applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services.
This IFRIC is not relevant to the Group at this time.
c New standards and interpretations which are not yet effective IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset and how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
The Group will apply IFRIC 14 from 1 May 2009: however, it will be of minimal impact.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations effective for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
The Group will apply this revision to IFRS 3 from 1 May 2010 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing Costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisitions, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset, removing the option to immediately expense those borrowing costs.
The Group will apply this amendment to IAS 23 from 1 May 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU: however, as these costs are not significant to the Group, the impact is expected to be minimal.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment requires puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components of instruments, that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rate share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation, to be classified as equity.
The Group will apply this amendment to IAS 32 from 1 May 2009 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
The Group will apply this revision to IAS 1 from 1 May 2009 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 May 2009.
IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only and that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The Group will apply this amendment to IFRS 2 from 1 May 2009 although it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes relating to IAS 18, Revenue effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The Group will apply IFRIC 13 from 1 May 2009: however, it will be of minimal impact.
54 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 1 Accounting policies continued d New standards and interpretations that are not yet effective and are not relevant IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This revised standard is not expected to be relevant to the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
i Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 1.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGU have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow forecasts for each CGU and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
See note 12 and 13 for details of the key assumptions used for impairment.
ii Pension benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and France.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
A half a percentage point decrease in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income statement charge in the year ended 30 April 2009 would have reduced profit before taxation by 0.3m and increased the net liability by 25.6m.
Key assumptions have also been made, by independent professional actuaries, regarding price inflation and annual salary increases.
These assumptions have been used to assess the contribution rate required to fund future benefits.
A half percentage point increase in the price inflation assumptions would have reduced profit before taxation by 1.5m and would have increased the net liability by 26.3m.
A half percentage point increase in the assumption regarding annual salary increases would have reduced profit before taxation by 0.3m and would have increased the net liability by 9.1m.
The mortality assumptions used in the UK and French schemes were reassessed in 2009.
For the UK scheme, the Group has used PNA00mcyob with 1 per cent floor for males and 0.5 per cent for females with the probabilities adjusted by 131 per cent for males and 126 per cent for females.
For the French schemes, the Group has used TGH05 and TGF005 tables for pensioners and TH0305 and TF0305 tables for non-pensioners.
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater, the charge to profit before taxation would have increased by approximately 0.4m and the net post employment liability before tax would have increased by approximately 6.5m.
iii Taxation Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations on which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 55 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 1 Accounting policies continued iv Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Average cost includes transportation costs to the point of sale and is net of any supplier discounts and rebates.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and damaged stocks.
Damaged stocks are identified through inventory counting procedures conducted within each business.
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories are made as part of their ongoing financial reporting.
Provisions reflect likely future sales and whether the item is no longer referenced by suppliers.
As at 30 April 2009, the Group held allowances in respect of inventory of 14.5m 30 April 2008: 18.3m.
v Impairment of non-financial assets At each full year balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
For tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store.
For goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Principal rates of exchange Euro Czech Kr Average rate year ended 30 April 2009 1.1923 30.4226 Closing rate 30 April 2009 1.1184 29.9720 Average rate period ended 30 April 2008 1.4165 39.1624 Closing rate 30 April 2008 1.2721 32.1170 56 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 2 Financial risk management Treasury policy Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
The Board establishes the Groups financial policies and the Chief Executive Officer CEO establishes objectives in line with these policies.
The Finance Directors Committee and the Treasury Committee, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director GFD, are then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company Treasury teams.
Approved Treasury Management Guidelines define and classify risks and also determine, by category of transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk, settlement risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the aforementioned policies the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated future transactions.
The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group accounts into sterling.
Interest rate risk comprises the interest price risk that results from borrowing at variable and fixed rates and the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios.
Credit risk is managed by investing in liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Groups Treasury Management Guidelines.
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions.
As a result of its strong cash flow, the Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loan agreements expire.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, the Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
Affiliated companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally.
The Treasury Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Groups intra-group loans portfolio on a monthly basis.
Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
It uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive regular reports of the activities of Group treasury.
Capital management The principal sources of capital to fund the Groups operations are equity, bank borrowings and operating leases on properties.
Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements: funds are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property leases relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies rated investment grade by publicly recognised rating agencies.
Market risk 1 Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
It is therefore subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Groups sterling transaction costs and the translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 57 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 2 Financial risk management continued The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the euro.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net borrowings held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in the income statement.
At 30 April 2009, if the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2.0m 2008: 3.9m lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses on translation of euro-denominated trade receivables, offset by foreign exchange gains on translation of euro-denominated borrowings.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
Permission of Group treasury is required before a foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
At 30 April 2009 62 per cent 30 April 2008: 57 per cent of the Groups revenue and 110 per cent 30 April 2008: 83 per cent of the Groups retail profit were denominated in euros.
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation losses and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
At 30 April 2009, if the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the year would have been 76.2m 30 April 2008: 142.7m.
At 30 April 2009, if the euro had weakened by 10 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the year would have been 69.3m 30 April 2008: 132.4m.
If the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling, with all other variables held constant, equity would have been unchanged 30 April 2008: 0.2m lower.
If the euro had weakened by 10 per cent against sterling, with all other variables held constant, equity would have been 0.4m 30 April 2008: 1.6m lower, arising mainly from foreign exchange losses gains on translation of euro-denominated equity securities classified as available-for-sale.
2 Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available-for-sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
3 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk In February 2006 interest rate swaps contracts were entered into for a period of three years, which had the effect of fixing the interest rate costs on 300m of longer term borrowings.
Following the receipt of proceeds of sale of BUT, the Group repaid all outstanding borrowings under its primary credit facility.
This extinguished the Groups exposure to interest rate risk and consequently the interest swap contracts were terminated.
The treasury policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more than 70 per cent of Group long-term borrowings must be fixed, and this will be applied when there is a need for longer term borrowings.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2009 would have been 0.1m 30 April 2008: 0.1m lower.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2009 would have been 1.4m 30 April 2009: 1.4m lower.
Credit risk Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better.
Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
The Group maintains committed bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure.
58 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 2 Financial risk management continued Maturity profile of financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings basedonthe remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 30 April 2009 m m m m Finance lease liability 3.3 1.3 Trade and other payables 952.9 286.6 38.8 30.0 Borrowings 0.8 140.9 Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 30 April 2008 m m m m Finance lease liability 2.5 0.6 0.9 Trade and other payables 902.3 208.6 67.1 31.6 Borrowings 4.5 54.5 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 30 April 2009 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 33.1 Inflow 32.1 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outflow 93.0 Inflow 92.9 Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 30 April 2008 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 18.9 Inflow 15.8 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outflow 186.6 Inflow 186.2 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 59 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 2 Financial risk management continued Current asset investments are made for varying periods of up to 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short term LIBOR or EURIBOR deposit rates.
Of the total current asset investments of 83.5m 30 April 2008: 96.0m, 23.8m 30 April 2008: 45.1m are included within other current investments and 59.7m 30 April 2008: 50.9m within cash and cash equivalents.
The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans.
The covenants of a financial nature relate mainly to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest.
During the year ending 30 April 2009, the Group is in compliance with its covenants.
3 Continuing Group operating loss profit Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Analysis by function: Revenue 4,954.1 5,356.6 Cost of sales 3,585.5 3,857.0 Gross profit 1,368.6 1,499.6 Distribution costs 213.7 230.2 Selling expenses 852.8 934.0 Exceptional restructuring costs 23.1 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 118.5 Administrative expenses 243.3 214.3 Other income 10.5 13.0 Group operating loss profit 72.3 134.1 Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 7.3 6.9 Total operating loss profit 65.0 141.0 Continuing Group operating loss profit includes net premiums on exit from leased premises in the year to 30 April 2009 of 2.1m 15 months ended 30 April 2008: 5.6m.
Property, plant and equipment disposal losses were 4.3m for the year ended 30 April 2009 15 months ended 30 April 2008: 4.1m gain.
Continuing Group total revenue includes revenue from services in the year to 30 April 2009 of 314.2m 15 months ended 30 April 2008: 298.8m.
Such revenues predominantly comprise those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs and product support.
60 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 4 Segmental analysis At 30 April 2009 and 30 April 2008, the Continuing Group was organised into three business segments, as follows: Darty France Comet Other includes BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart, Darty Italy, Darty Switzerland, Darty Turkey and Menaje del Hogar BUT was classified as a discontinued operation on 30 January 2008, following the announcement of the Group entering into a sale and purchase agreement.
Segment revenues by origin are not materially different to segment revenues by destination.
Segment assets include available for sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, stocks, debtors, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally.
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.
Capital expenditure includes additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, including additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
France UK Central Continuing Discontinued Darty Comet Other Costs Group operations Group Year ended 30 April 2009 m m m m m m m Revenue 2,299.9 1,659.6 994.6 4,954.1 4,954.1 Retail profit loss 103.9 10.1 23.2 13.8 77.0 77.0 Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 0.7 0.7 0.7 Valuation gains losses 1.9 2.2 0.3 0.3 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 118.5 118.5 118.5 Exceptional restructuring costs 9.6 13.5 23.1 23.1 Operating profit loss 103.2 0.5 157.1 11.6 65.0 65.0 Finance costs 14.0 14.0 Finance income 6.5 6.5 Exceptional finance costs 9.3 9.3 Finance costs net 16.8 16.8 Loss before income tax 81.8 81.8 Income tax credit 32.8 32.8 Taxation credit arising on the sale of discontinued operations 0.4 0.4 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 2.8 2.8 Loss profit for the year 114.6 3.2 111.4 The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty France is 8.0m.
The share of post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit for Darty France is 7.3m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 61 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 4 Segmental analysis continued France UK Continuing Discontinued Darty Comet Other Unallocated Group operations Group m m m m m m m Segmental assets 867.9 363.8 360.1 190.5 1,782.3 1,782.3 Segmental liabilities 745.1 360.0 212.8 261.9 1,579.8 1,579.8 Investments in equity accounted joint ventures and associates of 21.0m are included within the segment assets of Darty France.
France UK Continuing Discontinued Darty Comet Other Unallocated Group operations Group m m m m m m m Other segment items Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment note 14 47.0 23.1 26.8 0.9 97.8 97.8 Intangible assets note 13 24.4 14.7 3.6 0.1 42.8 42.8 Depreciation note 14 35.1 20.6 16.6 1.0 73.3 73.3 Amortisation of intangible assets note 13 14.0 6.0 2.7 22.7 22.7 Impairment losses property, plant and equipment note 14 2.0 6.3 8.3 8.3 Impairment losses goodwill and intangible assets note 13 116.2 116.2 116.2 Reversal of impairment losses property, plant and equipment note 14 0.8 0.8 0.8 France UK Central Continuing Discontinued Darty Comet Other Costs Group operations Group 15 months ended 30 April 2008 m m m m m m m Revenue 2,371.0 2,086.7 898.9 5,356.6 782.8 6,139.4 Retail profit loss 121.9 40.4 4.3 14.8 143.2 56.7 199.9 Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 0.6 0.6 3.7 4.3 Valuation losses 0.6 0.6 0.6 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 0.9 0.1 1.0 1.0 Operating profit loss 121.3 40.4 5.2 15.5 141.0 53.0 194.0 Finance costs 23.5 2.8 26.3 Finance income 11.9 1.0 12.9 Exceptional finance costs 1.5 1.5 Finance costs net 13.1 1.8 14.9 Profit before income tax 127.9 51.2 179.1 Income tax expense 45.0 17.4 62.4 Taxation credit arising on the sale of discontinued operations 1.8 1.8 Pre-tax profit on disposal 1.1 1.1 Profit for the period 82.9 36.7 119.6 The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty France and discontinued operations are 7.5m and 10.6m respectively.
The share of post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit for Darty France and discontinued operations are 6.9m and 6.9m respectively.
62 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 4 Segmental analysis continued France UK Continuing Discontinued Darty Comet Other Unallocated Group operations Group m m m m m m m Segmental assets 806.9 384.1 438.7 173.9 1,803.6 1,803.6 Segmental liabilities 634.5 373.2 193.8 202.4 1,403.9 1,403.9 Investments in equity accounted joint ventures and associates of 16.9m are included within the segment assets of Darty France.
France UK Continuing Discontinued Darty Comet Other Unallocated Group operations Group m m m m m m m Other segment items Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment note 14 44.8 44.6 35.2 124.6 26.8 151.4 Intangible assets note 13 27.4 111.4 0.1 138.9 18.9 157.8 Depreciation note 14 34.0 31.1 14.3 2.0 81.4 21.3 102.7 Amortisation of intangible assets note 13 7.4 2.0 0.2 9.6 0.5 10.1 Impairment losses property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets 1.0 1.0 0.7 1.7 5 Continuing Group finance costs Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Interest payable on bank borrowings 13.2 18.8 Interest payable on finance leases 0.2 0.3 Net interest on pension schemes 3.8 1.9 Foreign exchange gains losses 3.2 2.5 Total finance costs before exceptional finance costs 14.0 23.5 Exceptional finance costs 9.3 1.5 Total finance costs 23.3 25.0 The foreign exchange losses arise on the retranslation of short-term deposits denominated in a currency other than the operations functional currency.
Finance costs relating to discontinued operations for the year were nil 15 months ended 30 April 2008: 2.8m.
Exceptional finance costs include movements in fair value of investments held in cash and cash equivalents note 20 and other investments note 15 in accordance with IAS 39 9.0m, 2008: 1.5m and the write off of arrangement fees relating to the Groups 2005 facility agreement, renegotiated in September 2008 0.3m, 2008: nil.
These costs are exceptional by virtue of their size or nature.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 63 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 6 Continuing Group finance income Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Bank and other interest receivable 6.5 11.9 Finance income relating to discontinued operations for the year was nil 15 months ended 30 April 2008: 1.0m.
7 Continuing Group loss profit before income tax Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 Note m m Analysis of costs by nature Loss profit before income tax is stated after the following charges credits : Staff costs 36 690.8 707.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 14 72.6 81.2 Assets under finance leases 14 0.7 0.2 Amortisation of intangibles 13 22.7 9.6 Exceptional impairment of acquired intangible assets 13 116.2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment including exceptional 14 8.3 1.1 Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment 14 0.8 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4.3 4.1 Net premiums received on exit from leased premises 2.1 5.6 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 18.8 30.6 Property 167.2 184.7 Income from the sub-lease of property 3.2 4.3 Cost of inventories written off 17 28.3 33.8 Impairment of trade receivables 18 14.2 6.1 Cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales 17 3,337.6 3,647.1 Services provided by the Companys auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following from the Groups auditor as detailed below: Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.5 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.9 Services that relate to information technology 0.1 All other services 0.1 0.2 Total auditor remuneration 1.7 3.0 64 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 8 Income tax expense Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Analysis of charge in year period UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year period 10.1 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.1 2.8 1.1 7.3 Foreign tax Current tax on profits for the year period 34.6 36.0 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 15.3 5.7 19.3 30.3 Deferred tax Current period 1.4 3.3 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 13.8 4.1 12.4 7.4 Total income tax expense 32.8 45.0 The income tax expense of 32.8m relates entirely to continuing operations.
Tax on items charged to equity: Deferred income tax charge on share schemes 0.1 Deferred income tax charge on cash flow hedges in reserves 1.4 Deferred income tax credit on available for sale investments 0.1 0.4 Deferred income tax charge on actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations 5.5 3.1 Total tax on items charged to equity 5.5 1.3 Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax for the year is higher 2008: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax.
The differences are explained below: Loss profit on ordinary activities before income tax 81.8 127.9 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28 per cent 2008: 30 per cent 22.9 38.4 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 3.8 5.9 Adjustments in respect of joint ventures and associates 0.5 0.4 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.7 1.1 Exceptional items not deductible for tax purposes 37.8 Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset unrelieved tax losses 13.1 2.0 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 0.4 4.4 Change in tax rate 0.8 Impact of changes in foreign exchange rates 0.8 1.6 Total income tax expense 32.8 45.0 The adjustments to tax in respect of prior years consist of: UK current tax 1.1 2.8 Foreign current tax 15.3 5.7 Deferred tax 13.8 4.1 0.4 4.4 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 65 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 8 Income tax expense continued Prior year UK current tax includes foreign exchange differences on settlement of Group relief, 3.9m.
Prior year foreign current tax includes the release of a tax provision for a French tax issue that became time barred during the period, 15.0m.
Deferred tax prior year includes the write off of the deferred tax asset relating to Menaje del Hogar, 12.7m.
Adjustments in respect of prior periods primarily comprise releases of foreign tax provisions, following settlement of prior period liabilities and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets note 27.
The exceptional items not deductible for tax purposes relate to the tax effect of the impairment and restructuring costs of Menaje del Hogar.
Losses not recognised as a deferred tax asset principally include tax losses arising in Menaje del Hogar during the year.
Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Loss profit before tax per group income statement 81.8 127.9 Share of joint venture and associate taxation 0.7 0.6 Adjusted loss profit before tax 81.1 128.5 Exceptional items including finance costs 150.9 2.5 Adjusted loss profit before tax on continuing operations 69.8 131.0 Income tax charge per Group income statement 32.8 45.0 Share of joint venture and associate taxation 0.7 0.6 Adjusted income tax charge 33.5 45.6 Tax on exceptional items including finance costs 6.0 0.5 Adjusted income tax charge on continuing operations 39.5 46.1 Effective tax rate 56.6% 35.2% 9 Dividends Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Final paid 2008: 3.60 pence 2007: 10.05 pence per share 19.1 53.2 Interim paid 66.4 18.5 85.5 71.7 The retained loss for the year to 30 April 2009 amounts to 111.4 million 15 months to 30 April 2008: 120.2 million profit.
An interim dividend of 1.75 pence was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 3 April 2009.
In addition the Board will also recommend at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 3.25 pence which will total 17.2m, payable on 9 October 2009 in relation to the year ending 30 April 2009.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 18 September 2009.
66 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to shareholders by 529.0m shares 30 April 2008: 529.3m, being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
There is no difference between diluted and basic earnings per share.
Supplementary adjusted earnings per share figures are presented.
These exclude the effects of valuation gains and losses on options to acquire minority interests, exceptional restructuring costs, exceptional finance costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
Year ended 15 months ended 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount m pence m pence Basic loss earnings per share Loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 111.4 21.1 120.2 22.7 Adjustments Valuation gains losses 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.1 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 118.5 22.4 1.0 0.2 Exceptional restructuring costs 23.1 4.4 Exceptional finance costs 9.3 1.8 1.5 0.3 Tax effect 6.0 1.1 0.5 0.1 Adjusted earnings per share 33.2 6.3 122.8 23.2 Loss earnings per share Continuing operations 114.6 21.7 83.6 15.8 Discontinued operations 3.2 0.6 36.6 6.9 Total for the year period 111.4 21.1 120.2 22.7 11 Discontinued operations There were no new discontinued operations during the year ended 30 April 2009.
On 31 March 2008 the sale of the Groups French furniture and electrical retailing business BUT was completed.
In accordance with IFRS 5 the business has been treated as a discontinued operation in the 30 April 2008 Annual report and the results of BUT were excluded from the results of the Continuing Group.
Transaction costs and other expenses were accrued in the calculation of pre-tax profit on disposal presented in the 30 April 2008 Annual report.
Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Cash consideration 373.3 Foreign exchange recycled to the income statement on disposal 59.4 Transaction costs and other 12.7 Other income 2.8 Less: net assets disposed 418.9 Pre-tax profit on disposal 2.8 1.1 Profit after taxation relating to performance of business 33.8 Taxation charge arising on the sale of discontinued operations 0.4 1.8 Total profit for the year period for discontinued operations 3.2 36.7 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 67 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 12 Exceptional items Year ended 15 months 30 April ended30April 2009 2008 m m Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 118.5 1.0 Exceptional restructuring costs: Comet 9.6 Menaje del Hogar 12.1 Darty Switzerland 1.4 Exceptional restructuring costs included in operating loss profit 23.1 Tax on exceptional items in loss profit for the year period 3.4 Exceptional loss for the year period 138.2 1.0 Management has interpreted the recent retail downturn in Spain as an external indicator of impairment.
An amortisation and impairment charge of 118.5m has been recognised against the carrying value of Menaje del Hogars intangible assets, principally comprising goodwill of 102.6m.
Restructuring charges represent non-recurring charges resulting from the reorganisation of the business in response to the recent retail downturns in the UK, Spain and Switzerland.
These charges consist of one-off redundancy costs, lease termination penalties, onerous lease charges and individual store impairment charges.
The related cash outflow during the year was 6.3m 2008: nil.
13 Intangible assets Other Goodwill Software intangibles Total As at 30 April 2009 m m m m Cost At 1 May 2008 131.4 73.5 48.8 253.7 Reclassifications 1.5 1.9 3.4 Final adjustment to provisional goodwill on acquisition 0.8 0.8 Additions separately acquired 14.3 14.0 28.3 Additions internally generated 14.5 14.5 Disposals other 5.9 1.7 7.6 Impairment 102.6 13.6 116.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.0 6.8 5.3 16.1 At 30 April 2009 33.6 101.7 50.9 186.2 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2008 10.7 30.1 7.6 48.4 Reclassifications 0.4 1.3 0.1 1.8 Impairment reversal of impairment 1.7 1.7 Charge for year 14.0 8.7 22.7 Disposals other 5.6 0.5 6.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.0 1.4 1.5 3.9 At 30 April 2009 12.1 41.2 15.7 69.0 Net book value internally generated 8.0 8.0 other 21.5 52.5 35.2 109.2 Total at 30 April 2009 21.5 60.5 35.2 117.2 Amortisation charges for continuing operations in the year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales 6.8m, selling expenses 8.0m, administrative expenses 7.9m.
68 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 13 Intangible assets continued Other Goodwill Software intangibles Total As at 30 April 2008 m m m m Cost At 1 February 2007 197.9 24.8 19.6 242.3 Reclassifications 30.5 1.0 31.5 Additions through business combinations 107.4 15.8 123.2 Additions separately acquired 5.4 12.1 17.5 Additions internally generated 17.1 17.1 Disposals assets of BUT 221.9 10.7 4.5 237.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 48.0 6.4 4.8 59.2 At 30 April 2008 131.4 73.5 48.8 253.7 Amortisation and impairment At 1 February 2007 15.2 6.6 2.6 24.4 Reclassifications 20.4 0.2 20.2 Additions through business combinations 0.6 0.6 Charge for period 4.3 5.8 10.1 Disposals assets of BUT 7.1 3.6 1.4 12.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.6 1.8 0.8 5.2 At 30 April 2008 10.7 30.1 7.6 48.4 Net book value internally generated 28.8 28.8 other 120.7 14.6 41.2 176.5 Total at 30 April 2008 120.7 43.4 41.2 205.3 Amortisation charges in the period relating to the continuing Group were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales 3.0m, selling expenses 5.7m, administrative expenses 0.9m.
A further 0.5m of amortisation charges were included within discontinued operations in administrative expenses.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment based on value in use.
Goodwill is tested more frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired.
Cash-generating units are independent sources of income and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes, which may be at a country, divisional, regional or store level.
Goodwill has been aggregated at a higher country level.
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segments are as follows: France UK Continuing Darty Comet Other Group m m m m At 30 April 2009 1.5 20.0 21.5 At 30 April 2008 1.4 119.3 120.7 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 69 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 13 Intangible assets continued Goodwill impairment review Management has interpreted the recent retail downturn in Spain as an external indicator of impairment.
Therefore, in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, an impairment review has been undertaken on the assets of Menaje del Hogar.
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and costs.
Management have estimated the discount rate with regard to the specific risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Discount rates used are on a pre-tax basis.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and have been adjusted for expected changes in future conditions.
The calculations are based on future operating cash flows derived using managements latest five-year forecasts.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated long term growth rates.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for Menaje del Hogar are as follows: Long-term growth rate of 2.7%.
This rate is consistent with Spains forecast real GDP growth in 2013.
Pre-tax discount rate of 9.72%, being the Group pre-tax WACC at October 2008, at which date the Menaje del Hogar goodwill was fully written off.
Based on the value in use calculations, Menaje del Hogars goodwill of 102.6 million has been fully impaired and written off.
For other goodwill, value in use calculations have been performed using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash generating units.
Other intangibles Other intangibles include amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises and acquired intangibles.
Other intangibles include 3.1m 2008: 14.2m for acquired intangibles, consisting of nil 2008: 11.4m for brands and 3.1m 2008: 2.8m for favourable lease contracts.
The value in use of amounts paid in order to gain access to leasehold premises has been calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash-generating units.
The carrying amount of the other intangibles with indefinite useful lives is analysed by business segment as follows: France UK Continuing Darty Comet Other Group m m m m At 30 April 2009 11.1 11.1 At 30 April 2008 8.8 8.8 70 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Assets in the Land and fittings and course of buildings equipment construction Total As at 30 April 2009 m m m m Cost At 1 May 2008 253.6 601.2 7.1 861.9 Reclassifications 0.4 9.1 3.9 5.6 Additions 14.8 81.7 1.3 97.8 Acquisitions Disposals other 3.1 29.8 0.3 33.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 35.7 53.9 0.7 90.3 At 30 April 2009 301.4 716.1 4.9 1,022.4 Accumulated depreciation At 1 May 2008 46.6 354.6 401.2 Reclassifications 0.7 0.7 Impairment 8.3 8.3 Reversal of impairment 0.8 0.8 Charge for year 7.0 66.3 73.3 Disposals other 1.9 27.1 29.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 31.2 38.0 At 30 April 2009 58.5 433.2 491.7 Net book value At 30 April 2009 242.9 282.9 4.9 530.7 At 30 April 2008 207.0 246.6 7.1 460.7 The cost of land and buildings includes 0.3m 2008: 0.3m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The related accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 0.2m 2008: 0.2m.
The net book value of land and buildings includes 3.1m in relation to long leaseholds 2008: 2.7m and nil in relation to short leaseholds 2008: nil.
The cost of fixtures, fittings and equipment includes 7.8m 2008: 5.7m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The related accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 4.6m 2008: 3.8m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 71 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Fixtures, Assets in the Land and fittings and course of buildings equipment construction Total As at 30 April 2008 m m m m Cost At 1 February 2007 318.5 607.3 2.3 928.1 Reclassifications 0.1 27.5 3.0 30.4 Additions 11.3 112.3 8.3 131.9 Acquisitions 0.3 19.2 19.5 Disposals assets of BUT 128.9 155.0 1.4 285.3 Disposals other 5.8 32.2 0.1 37.9 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 58.1 77.1 0.8 136.0 At 30 April 2008 253.6 601.2 7.1 861.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 February 2007 54.5 359.7 414.2 Reclassifications 20.4 20.4 Impairment 1.1 1.1 Charge for period 9.8 92.9 102.7 Disposals assets of BUT 26.2 95.6 121.8 Disposals other 2.0 28.2 30.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 10.5 45.1 55.6 At 30 April 2008 46.6 354.6 401.2 Net book value At 30 April 2008 207.0 246.6 7.1 460.7 Store impairments Asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
For the purposes of impairment testing, each individual store is considered by management to be a cash-generating unit.
Impairment testing is based on ,  averagecostofcapital.
Store impairment of 8.3m 2008: 1.1m was charged to the income statement during the period and 0.8m 2008: nil was reversed.
Market value of freehold property Based on a sample of valuations performed during the year, the Directors are of the opinion that the market value of the Groups freehold property portfolio exceeds the net book value.
15 Investments Joint venture Associates Total As at 30 April 2009 m m m At 1 May 2008 3.3 13.5 16.8 Share of retained profits in year 6.9 0.4 7.3 Dividends 5.8 5.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 2.0 2.7 At 30 April 2009 5.1 15.9 21.0 72 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 15 Investments continued Joint venture Associates Total As at 30 April 2008 m m m At 1 February 2007 2.4 41.3 43.7 Share of retained profits in year 5.7 4.9 10.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.3 40.1 45.4 Dividends received 0.5 7.4 7.9 At 30 April 2008 3.3 13.5 16.8 In relation to the Groups interest in its joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows: Joint venture Associates 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Income 18.6 19.2 29.2 15.5 Expense 11.7 13.6 28.1 13.6 Profit before interest and tax 6.9 5.6 1.1 1.9 Interest Tax 0.1 0.7 0.7 Share of post tax profit from discontinued operations 6.9 Share of profits after tax 6.9 5.7 0.4 8.1 In relation to the Groups interest in the joint venture and associates, the assets and liabilities are shown below: Joint venture Associates 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Current assets 31.1 30.9 15.9 13.5 Current liabilities 26.0 27.6 Net assets 5.1 3.3 15.9 13.5 The Groups investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S. A. relates to a company incorporated in France in which the Group has joint control.
The joint venture has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed.
There are no significant capital commitments within the joint venture.
Tax payable on the profits of the joint venture is included in the tax charge of Darty France.
The Groups investments in associated undertakings relate to the Groups 50 per cent holding in Menafinance S. A. formerly Crealfi S. A., a company incorporated in France that provides consumer credit services.
The Groups 49.0 per cent holding in Fidem S. A was sold during the prior period, as part of the BUT disposal.
Other investments 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Other investments 23.8 45.1 Other investments comprise amounts invested via a fund manager, which mature after more than three months from the date of inception.
These assets are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with the accounting policy for financial assets note 1.
These investments are pledged as part of underlying insurance arrangements to meet expected future costs arising from the provision of extended warranty cover.
Any fair value movements on Other investments are treated as exceptional finance costs note 5.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 73 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 16 Available-for-sale financial assets m As at 1 May 2008 17.3 Additions Disposals Exchange differences 0.8 Net revaluation deficit transferred to equity 14.1 At 30 April 2009 4.0 Non-current 4.0 Listed securities: Equity securities Eurozone 4.0 Unlisted securities: Unlisted securities Eurozone Total securities 4.0 m As at 1 February 2007 20.0 Disposals 0.8 Exchange differences 3.5 Net revaluation surplus transferred to equity 5.4 At 30 April 2008 17.3 Non-current 17.3 Listed securities: Equity securities Eurozone 17.1 Unlisted securities: Unlisted securities Eurozone 0.2 Total securities 17.3 Investments listed overseas primarily relate to the Groups holding in Go Sport S. A. sports leisurewear and equipment retailer, a company listed and registered in France.
Price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on its available-for-sale assets.
The Group has assessed the impact on equity of the movement of relevant index and concluded that it is not material.
17 Inventories 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Finished goods for resale 664.7 660.6 During the year, 28.3m 2008: 33.8m of inventories were written off and charged to the income statement.
80.2m 2008: 76.1m of inventory is pledged as collateral for liabilities.
The cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 3,337.6m 2008: 3,647.1m.
74 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 18 Trade and other receivables 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 166.0 176.5 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 14.6 11.3 Trade receivables net 151.4 165.2 Amounts receivable from joint venture and associates 1.4 1.2 Other receivables 48.7 60.8 Prepayments and accrued income 42.8 42.9 Total trade and other receivables 244.3 270.1 The book value of the Groups trade and other receivables approximates to fair value due to the short-term nature of these receivables.
As of 30 April 2009, trade receivables of 16.5m 2008: 30.3m are less than six months past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 Up to three months 14.0 24.6 Three to six months 2.5 5.7 Total 16.5 30.3 As of 30 April 2009, trade receivables of 2.8m 2008: 3.5m were less than six months and impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to wholesalers, which are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 Up to three months 0.8 1.3 Three to six months 2.0 2.2 Total 2.8 3.5 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Pounds sterling 45.9 48.5 Euros 186.3 214.5 Czech krown 5.2 3.0 Other 6.9 4.1 Total trade and other receivables 244.3 270.1 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 75 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 18 Trade and other receivables continued The Groups trade receivables are stated after provision for impairment of receivables based on managements assessment of creditworthiness, an analysis of which is as follows: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m At 1 May 2008 1 February 2007 11.3 10.7 Provisions for receivables impairment 14.2 6.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 6.0 4.5 Unused amounts reversed 4.9 0.9 Disposal provision within BUT 1.9 As at 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 14.6 11.3 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
19 Other receivables 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Amounts falling due after more than one year: Other receivables 15.7 11.7 Total other receivables 15.7 11.7 The book value of the Groups other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Pounds sterling 2.2 2.6 Euros 10.6 8.9 Czech krown 0.2 0.1 Other 2.7 0.1 Total trade and other receivables 15.7 11.7 The other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
76 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 20 Cash and cash equivalents 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 70.3 13.2 Short-term bank deposit and investments 59.7 50.9 Total 130.0 64.1 For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts comprise the following: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 Note m m Cash at bank and in hand 70.3 13.2 Bank overdrafts 23 0.8 4.5 Short-term bank deposit and investments 59.7 50.9 Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 129.2 59.6 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits held at 30 April 2009 was 0.3 per cent 30 April 2008: 5.0 per cent and these deposits had an average maturity of 1.0 day 30 April 2008: 1.0 day.
Of the total deposits and investments, 61.7m 30 April 2008: 69.2m is pledged as part of underlying insurance arrangements to meet expected future costs arising from the provision of extended warranty cover and 9.0m 30 April 2008: nil is pledged to support local bank facilities for some group companies.
21 Trade and other payables 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 374.7 361.6 Other tax and social security payable 157.3 132.6 Other payables 117.7 118.0 Accruals 162.0 174.5 Deferred income 141.2 115.6 Obligations under finance leases 3.3 2.5 Total trade and other payables 956.2 904.8 22 Income tax liabilities 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Provision for corporation tax 8.1 10.7 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 77 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 23 Borrowings 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Current Bank loans Bank overdrafts 0.8 4.5 Total current 0.8 4.5 Non-current Bank loans 140.9 54.4 Total non-current 140.9 54.4 Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in a number of currencies and have interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR.
The effective interest rate on bank loans at the balance sheet date was 2.4 per cent 30 April 2008: 4.5 per cent.
Within bank loans and overdrafts an amount of nil 30 April 2008: nil is secured over property, stock and other assets.
The book value of the Groups borrowings approximates to fair value.
The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice is as follows: Between 30 April Within one and 2009 one year five years Total m m m At 30 April 2009 Total borrowings 0.8 140.9 141.7 Net exposure 0.8 140.9 141.7 Between 30 April Within one and 2008 one year five years Total m m m At 30 April 2008 Total borrowings 4.5 54.4 58.9 Net exposure 4.5 54.4 58.9 Borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Pound sterling 2.9 Euro 141.7 56.0 141.7 58.9 The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans.
The covenants of a financial nature relate to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest.
During the year ending 30 April 2009, the Group was in compliance with its covenants.
78 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 23 Borrowings continued Borrowing facilities On 5 September 2008, Kesa signed a new committed 500m revolving credit facility, replacing the Groups existing 650m facility which was due to expire in July 2010.
The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 April in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Expiring after more than one year but not more than five years 304.0 456.6 The Groups committed facilities mature in September 2013.
Obligations under finance leases 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows Less than one year 3.3 2.5 Later than one year but not more than five 1.3 0.6 More than five years 0.9 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 4.6 3.8 24 Other payables: non-current 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Obligations under finance leases 1.3 1.3 Accruals 45.8 36.5 Deferred income 295.5 257.2 Other payables 14.1 13.5 Total other payables 356.7 308.5 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 79 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 25 Derivative financial instruments 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current portion Foreign currency swap held for trading 0.1 0.1 Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges 0.4 0.3 Embedded derivatives Derivative financial instruments current 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.3 Non-current portion Options over shares in Group undertakings at FVTPL Cash flow hedges Derivative financial instruments non-current Total derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.3 Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the .
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet.
Hedges Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US dollars for which the Group has firm commitments.
The contracts typically cover periods of fewer than six months.
The forward currency contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the firm commitments.
Where cash flow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated by marking the contracts to market using prevailing forward exchange rates.
At 30 April 2009 a net unrealised loss of 0.3m 30 April 2008: 0.2m with a related deferred tax asset was included within equity in respect of these contracts.
At 30 April 2009 the value of future US dollar purchases hedged was US$47.6m 30 April 2008: US$31.3m.
26 Provisions 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m At 1 May 1 February 3.1 1.9 Charged to the income statement: Additional provisions 3.8 1.2 At 30 April 6.9 3.1 Analysed as: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Current 2.9 1.7 Non-current 4.0 1.4 Total 6.9 3.1 Provisions relate to onerous property contracts.
The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle properties.
The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges to be utilised over a range of one to four years.
80 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 27 Deferred tax Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the country in which they originate, and is not discounted.
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets to the extent they are regarded as recoverable in the foreseeable future.
No deferred income tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated capital Fair value allowances adjustments Other Total m m m m At 1 May 2008 27.3 17.4 44.7 Income statement credit charge 3.9 2.7 1.2 Written off against goodwill 0.1 1.2 1.1 Tax credited to equity 0.1 0.1 Exchange adjustments 4.8 2.9 7.7 At 30 April 2009 28.2 21.9 50.1 Deferred income tax assets Merger goodwill Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m At 1 May 2008 13.1 4.1 22.2 7.2 46.6 Income statement credit charge 14.2 0.9 1.5 13.6 Written off against goodwill 4.7 4.7 Tax charged to equity 5.5 5.5 Exchange adjustments 1.1 0.6 0.9 0.2 2.8 At 30 April 2009 16.7 8.9 25.6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 81 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 27 Deferred tax continued The deferred income tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred income tax liabilities, and this gives rise to the following amounts disclosed in the balance sheet: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Deferred income tax assets as above 25.6 46.6 Offset against deferred income tax liabilities 4.6 3.0 Deferred income tax assets 30.2 43.6 Deferred income tax liabilities as above 50.1 44.7 Reduced by deferred income tax assets 4.6 3.0 Deferred income tax liabilities 54.7 41.7 The deferred income tax asset recoverable after more than one year is 25.6m 2008: 46.6m and the deferred income tax liability due after more than one year is 50.1m 2008: 44.7m.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
As at 30 April 2009, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to approximately 88.3m 2008: 24.6m and UK losses of approximately 27.1m 2008: 1.2m on which a deferred income tax asset of nil 2008: 4.1m has been recognised.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of 32.5m 2008: 2.7m in respect of losses amounting to approximately 115.4m 2008: 12.1m that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
The tax deductibility of losses expire as follows: 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Within five years 13.7 1.5 Within 15 years 74.6 23.1 Not expiring 27.1 1.2 115.4 25.8 With the impairment of Menaje del Hogar during the year, the deferred tax asset relating to Merger goodwill has been written off.
28 Share capital 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Number Number mm m m Authorised Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 1,000 250.0 1,000 250.0 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 529.6 132.4 529.6 132.4 Kesa Employee Share Trust The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust the Trust, that owns 92,876 ordinary shares of 25 pence in Kesa Electricals plc at 30 April 2009 2008: 92,876 acquired at an average cost of 2.70 2008: 2.70 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 0.3m 2008: 0.3m.
The shares are used to satisfy share option exercises, and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
Dividends receivable during the year have been waived.
The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares will be allocated by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are exercised.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2009 was 0.1m 2008: 0.2m.
82 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 29 Retained earnings Year ended 30 April 2009 m At 1 May 2008 456.6 Loss for the year continuing operations 114.6 Profit for the year discontinued operations 3.2 Dividends 85.5 Employee share schemes 1.1 Tax on employee share schemes 0.1 Investment in ESOP shares 0.3 Net SORIE pension movement 13.7 At 30 April 2009 639.1 15 months ended 30 April 2008 m At 1 February 2007 503.1 Profit for the period continuing operations 83.6 Profit for the period discontinued operations 36.6 Disposal of put option transferred from Other Reserves 5.9 Dividends 71.7 Employee share schemes 1.2 Investments in ESOP shares 0.3 Net SORIE pension movement 3.0 At 30 April 2008 456.6 30 Other reserves Available for sale Total Other Demerger Translation investments Hedging other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves Year ended 30 April 2009 m m m m m m At 1 May 2008 9.2 741.8 18.1 10.1 0.2 724.4 Exchange differences 0.2 0.2 Available for sale assets fair value loss net of tax 14.1 14.1 Cash flow hedges fair value loss net of tax 0.1 0.1 At 30 April 2009 9.2 741.8 18.3 4.0 0.3 710.0 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 83 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 30 Other reserves continued Available for sale Total Other Demerger Translation investments Hedging other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves Period ended 30 April 2008 m m m m m m At 1 February 2007 15.1 741.8 7.7 15.3 2.6 736.9 Exchange differences 49.0 49.0 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations note 11 59.4 59.4 Available for sale assets fair value loss net of tax 5.2 5.2 Cash flow hedges fair value loss net of tax 3.0 3.0 recycled and reported in net profit 0.2 0.2 Disposal of put option transferred to retained earnings 5.9 5.9 At 30 April 2008 9.2 741.8 18.1 10.1 0.2 724.4 The Demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations on consolidation are included within the Translation reserve.
The available for sale investments reserve include movements, net of deferred income tax, in the fair value of available for sale investments.
On disposal of the investment, the amount taken through the reserve is recycled out through the income statement.
The movement in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of deferred income tax, which are deemed to be effective is taken through the Hedging reserve.
On expiry of the cash flow hedge, the amount in the Hedging reserve is recycled through the income statement.
If a hedge is deemed ineffective, the amount in the hedge reserve is immediately recycled out through the income statement.
Amounts included within the Other reserve represent the movement in respect of put and call options entered into or exercised during the period.
31 Statement of changes in shareholders equity 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Loss profit attributable to shareholders 111.4 120.2 Dividends 85.5 71.7 Exchange differences 0.2 49.0 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 59.4 Employee share schemes 1.1 1.2 Tax on employee share schemes 0.1 Available for sale assets fair value losses net of tax 14.1 5.2 Cash flow hedges fair value losses net of tax 0.1 3.0 recycled and reported in net profit 0.2 Investment in ESOP shares 0.3 0.3 Net actuarial gain on retirement benefit obligations 13.7 3.0 Opening shareholders equity 400.2 366.2 Closing shareholders equity 203.3 400.2 84 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 32 Minority interests 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m At 1 May 2008 1 February 2007 0.5 4.5 Acquisitions 0.9 Loss for the year period 0.6 Dividend paid 0.1 0.5 Business disposals 3.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 0.6 At year period end 0.8 0.5 33 Cash flow from operating activities 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Loss profit after tax 114.6 82.9 Adjustments for: Income tax 33.5 45.6 Interest income 6.5 10.4 Interest expense 23.3 23.5 Share of results of joint venture before interest and taxation 6.9 5.6 Share of results of associates before interest and taxation 1.1 1.9 Continuing group operating loss profit 72.3 134.1 Discontinued operations operating profit before associates 2.8 46.1 Depreciation and amortisation 96.0 112.8 Net impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 126.0 1.7 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment including write offs 4.3 5.2 Decrease increase in inventories 52.8 51.3 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 61.4 0.8 Decrease increase in payables 20.4 51.0 Net cash inflow from operating activities 250.6 186.4 Tax includes joint venture and associate tax of 0.7m 2008: 0.6m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 85 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 34 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Exchange At 30 April and other At 1 May 2009 Cash flow movements 2008 Year ended 30 April 2009 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 70.3 60.1 3.0 13.2 Overdrafts 0.8 8.2 4.5 4.5 Short-term deposits and investments 59.7 14.2 5.4 50.9 129.2 82.5 12.9 59.6 Borrowings falling due within one year Borrowings falling due after one year 140.9 65.4 21.1 54.4 Finance leases 4.6 0.6 0.2 3.8 145.5 66.0 21.3 58.2 Other current investments 23.8 12.3 9.0 45.1 Total 7.5 4.2 43.2 46.5 Exchange At 30 April and other At 1 February 2008 Cash flow movements 2007 15 months ended 30 April 2008 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 13.2 0.9 40.7 53.0 Overdrafts 4.5 102.0 3.0 103.5 Short-term deposits and investments 50.9 67.3 7.9 110.3 59.6 35.6 35.8 59.8 Borrowings falling due within one year 2.6 0.2 2.4 Borrowings falling due after one year 54.4 159.1 11.1 202.4 Finance leases 3.8 4.8 5.9 2.7 58.2 166.5 17.2 207.5 Other current investments 45.1 27.3 0.1 72.3 Total 46.5 174.8 52.9 75.4 35 Acquisitions Year ended 30 April 2009 No acquisitions were made during the year.
15 months ended 30 April 2008 Menaje del Hogar On 17 September 2007, Kesa completed the acquisition of Menaje del Hogar Sociedad Anonima, a specialist electrical retailer.
Consideration was 100m in cash for 100 per cent of the voting rights and share capital of the business, together with 31m net debt assumed.
Menaje del Hogar forms part of the Other segment.
86 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 35 Acquisitions continued A summary of the fair values of the assets and liabilities arising is set out below: Final Book Fair value fair values values adjustments acquired m m m Intangible assets 58.7 45.9 12.8 Property, plant and equipment 17.2 2.6 14.6 Other non-current assets 16.8 16.8 Inventory 34.0 3.4 30.6 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 22.0 2.1 24.1 Trade and other receivables 6.2 4.9 1.3 Other current assets 3.0 3.0 Trade and other payables 54.7 5.7 49.0 Other current liabilities 3.0 23.8 26.8 Total fair value of net liabilities acquired 39.4 60.2 20.8 Goodwill arising on this acquisition was as follows: Cash consideration 68.9 Transaction costs 1.6 Net liabilities acquired 20.8 Goodwill 91.3 In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill on the acquisition of Menaje del Hogar, provisionally determined in the 30 April 2008 Annual report, was adjusted in the Half year 31 October 2008 report.
The adjustments were made to account for final amendments to the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in September 2007.
The book values have not changed since those that were included for the 15 months to April 2008.
It has not been deemed necessary, on the grounds of materiality, to restate the balance sheet for the fair value adjustments to goodwill detailed above.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Menaje del Hogar has subsequently been written off in 2009 note 13.
36 Employees and Directors 15 months Year ended ended 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Staff costs including Executive Directors Wages and salaries 535.4 545.8 Social security costs 149.5 144.7 Other pension costs 12.7 19.1 Less: payroll costs capitalised 6.8 2.3 Total staff costs 690.8 707.3 Included within wages and salaries is 1.4m 2008: 1.6m in respect of share-based payments.
Staff costs from discontinued operations were nil Period ended 30 April 2008: 114.8m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 87 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 36 Employees and Directors continued Monthly average number of people employed including Executive Directors in continuing operations 15 months Year ended ended 30 April 30April 2009 2008 Number Number Stores 16,652 17,429 Distribution 7,485 7,218 Administration 3,223 3,010 Total 27,360 27,657 15 months Year ended ended 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Executive Directors Salaries and taxable benefits 1.6 1.3 Bonuses 0.6 0.8 Pension 0.2 0.1 Share-based payments 0.2 0.3 Non-Executive Directors Fees 0.4 0.5 Total 3.0 3.0 15 months Year ended ended 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Key management compensation Salaries and short-term employee benefits 3.6 6.0 Pension costs 0.2 0.3 Share-based payments 0.7 0.8 Total 4.5 7.1 Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Kesa Executive Committee.
88 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 37 Share-based payments Share-based payments During the year covered by these financial statements, the Group has operated share award plans: 1.
Deferred Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan 2.
Kesa Share Incentive Plan Details of the significant share award plans are shown below.
Deferred Annual Bonus and Performance Share Plan a May 2005 grant of nil cost options Under the terms of the May 2005 Deferred Annual Bonus DAB and Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are only entitled to shares at nil cost at the end of the four-year period if Kesa has met the relevant pre-determined corporate performance measure and if the participants are still employed by the Group.
The corporate performance measure is Kesas Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against a comparator group drawn from companies in the FTSE 250 and measured over a four-year period.
Median performance of the TSR against the comparator group was not achieved at the end of the vesting period and therefore the entitlement to receive the grant lapsed.
Details of the grants were as follows: May 2005 DAB grant Following determination of the bonus for 2004-2005, the Group initially calculated the number of investment shares that participants would receive by dividing half of the bonus post a notional tax rate for French employees, half of bonus before tax was used by the share price on 23 March 2005 2.99.
Participants were then granted a maximum matching award of shares on a ratio of 1:1 based on the gross value of the investment shares received.
May 2005 PSP grant The PSP consisted of a base award equal to 30 per cent of basic salary, with up to a further 20 per cent potentially available depending on individual personal performance.
Under the terms of the May 2005 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent to between 30 per cent and 50 per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made, based on individual performance.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance conditions as those applying to the DAB shares as explained above.
The fair value of awards within the DAB and PSP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2009 in respect of the May 2005 award is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2008 323,529 Granted during year Forfeited during year Expired or lapsed during year 323,529 Outstanding at 30 April 2009 2009 Weighted Weighted average Range of average remaining life exercise exercise Number of prices price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 89 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 37 Share-based payments continued b May 2006 grant of nil cost options May 2006 DAB grant An award of up to 15 per cent of salary was given in the form of retention shares.
The award vests if the recipient is employed within the Group in May 2009.
There are no other performance conditions.
The fair value of shares within the DAB were estimated using a Black-Scholes model.
May 2006 PSP grant Under the terms of the May 2006 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent to between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made, based on individual performance.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance conditions as those applying to the May 2005 grant, save that the comparator group was revised to FTSE 350 general retailers.
The fair value of awards within the PSP were estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2009 in respect of the May 2006 DAB and PSP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2008 482,565 Granted during year Forfeited during year 28,107 Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2009 454,458 Exercisable at 30 April 2009 2009 Weighted Weighted average Range of average remaining life exercise exercise Number of prices price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 454,458 1 year 1 year 90 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 37 Share-based payments continued c March 2007 grant of nil cost options March 2007 DAB grant An award of up to 15 per cent of salary was given in the form of retention shares.
The award vests if the recipient is employed within the Group in March 2010.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 22 March 2007 Share price at grant date 3.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 105 Number of shares in scheme 463,425 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility N A Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N A Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.1% Fair value of awards 3.17 March 2007 PSP grant Under the terms of the March 2007 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent to between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made, based on individual performance.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 22 March 2007 Share price at grant date 3.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 34 Number of shares in scheme 463,744 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility 22.7% Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 5.3% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.1% Fair value of awards 1.72 The expected volatility was based on historical volatility since 7 July 2003, when Kesa demerged and listed.
The expected life was the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 91 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 37 Share-based payments continued A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2009 in respect of the March 2007 DAB and PSP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2008 889,269 Granted during year Forfeited during year 226,233 Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2009 663,036 Exercisable at 30 April 2009 2009 Weighted Weighted average Range of average remaining life exercise exercise Number of prices price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 663,036 1 year 1 year d June 2008 grant of nil cost options June 2008 DAB grant An award of up to 15 per cent of salary was given in the form of retention shares.
The award vests if the recipient is employed within the Group in June 2011.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 24 June 2008 Share price at grant date 1.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 99 Number of shares in scheme 1,038,804 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility N A Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N A Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 9% Fair value of awards 1.20 92 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 37 Share-based payments continued June 2008 PSP grant Under the terms of the June 2008 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent to between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made, based on individual performance.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 24 June 2008 Share price at grant date 1.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 32 Number of shares in scheme 1,085,600 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility 35% Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 5.38% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 9% Fair value of awards 0.65 , .
The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2009 in respect of the June 2008 DAB and PSP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2008 Granted during year 2,124,404 Forfeited during year 362,830 Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2009 1,761,574 Exercisable at 30 April 2009 2009 Weighted Weighted average Range of average remaining life exercise exercise Number of prices price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 1,761,574 2 years 2 years The total charge for the year relating to all of the above employee share-based payment plans, all of which are equity settled schemes, was 1.4m 2008: 1.6m.
The associated employers social security accrual at 30 April 2009 is 0.6m 2008: 0.6m.
Kesa Share Incentive Plan The Kesa Share Incentive Plan is an employee Inland Revenue approved scheme.
Employees who purchase four shares are awarded a further share at nil cost, should they remain within the Group for more than four years.
As at 30 April 2009 the plan owns 571,684 30 April 2008: 323,320 ordinary shares of 25 pence in Kesa Electricals plc, acquired at an average cost of 2.45m 30 April: 2.80 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 1.2m 30 April 2008: 0.9m.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2009 was 0.8m 30 April 2008: 0.7m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 93 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 38 Retirement benefits In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit scheme the Comet Pension Scheme, which was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and closed to future accrual on 30 September 2007.
All employees who do not participate in the Comet Pension Scheme are offered access to a Group defined contribution scheme.
In France, the main pension benefits are provided through the state system.
The Group is also required to pay lump sums retirement indemnities to employees when they retire from service.
In addition, the Group provides a supplementary funded, defined benefit plan Supplementary Pension Plan for its senior executives.
On 31 March 2008, the sale of BUT was completed.
The Group operated a defined benefit scheme for BUT and this scheme is shown below as Discontinued Operations.
Defined contribution schemes Pension costs for defined contributions schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Other Group UK France Other Group m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 9.0 2.6 11.6 4.0 2.6 6.6 Defined benefit schemes A qualified, independent actuary has updated the actuarial valuations of the Groups defined benefit schemes in the UK and France as at 30 April 2009.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2009 2008 UK France UK France %%%% Discount rate 6.80 5.25-5.75 5.95 5.25-5.75 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 5.05 2.5 5.45 2.5 Rate of pension increases 3.20 3.60 Price inflation 3.30 2.0 3.70 2.0 Expected return on plan assets: Insurance policies 4.5 4.5 Equities 7.90 8.5 7.80 8.5 Gilts 4.40 Bonds 5.50 4.9 5.40 4.9 Cash 1.90 4.0 5.00 4.0 Dynamic asset allocation 7.20 Real estate 6.20 6.4 7.80 6.4 Other 4.40 7.80 The discount rate is based on the yield on an AA rated corporate bond index with an adjustment to reflect the longer duration of the scheme liabilities relative to the index where appropriate.
Scheme administration expenses have been netted off against the expected return on plan assets.
Expected returns on plan assets are based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
For the UK scheme, the mortality tables used by the Group are PNA00mcyob with 1 per cent floor for males and 0.5 per cent for females with the probabilities adjusted by 131% for males and 126% for females.
For the French schemes, the mortality tables used by the Group are TGHF 2005 for pensioners, and INSEE 2003-2005 for non-pensioners.
94 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 38 Retirement benefits continued The main mortality assumptions for the UK scheme are summarised below: 2009 2008 Years Years Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 60 24.8 24.7 Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 60 27.2 27.2 Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 40 26.8 26.7 Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 40 28.5 28.5 For the French pension plans, the individuals entitlement on retirement is secured by the purchase of an annuity.
The terms of the annuity are set using insurance company tariff rates as imposed by legislation.
The Group has no further mortality risk post-retirement.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 218.1 38.9 257.0 278.9 38.3 317.2 Fair value of plan assets 182.8 17.5 200.3 219.9 20.8 240.7 Unrecognised prior service costs 1.6 1.6 0.6 0.6 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 35.3 19.8 55.1 59.0 16.9 75.9 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2009 2008 UK France UK France %%%% Equities 29 15 41 15 Gilts 20 Bonds 8813681 Cash 12 62 Dynamic asset allocation 26 Insurance policies Real estate 9 2 11 2 Other 4 2 6 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing Discontinued UK France Group UK France Group Operations Total m m m m m m m m Current service cost 1.8 1.8 9.5 2.0 11.5 0.3 11.8 Interest cost 16.4 2.1 18.5 18.5 1.8 20.3 0.2 20.5 Expected return on plan assets 14.9 0.8 15.7 17.5 0.9 18.4 18.4 Amortisation of unrecognised prior service cost 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.9 Total included within staff costs note 36 1.5 2.3 3.8 10.5 2.0 12.5 0.5 13.0 Of the total charge, including defined contribution schemes, 1.9m 2008: 2.3m, 6.0m 2008: 9.5m, 0.6m 2008: 1.0m and 4.1m 2008: 4.5m were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses, selling expenses and distribution costs respectively.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 95 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 38 Retirement benefits continued Analysis of the movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year period: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at start of period 278.9 38.3 317.2 279.3 32.5 311.8 Current service cost 1.8 1.8 9.5 2.0 11.5 Unrecognised prior service cost Interest cost 16.4 2.1 18.5 18.5 1.8 20.3 Contributions by employees 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 6.0 7.7 13.7 5.6 4.1 9.7 Actuarial gain loss recognised in SORIE 71.2 0.6 71.8 22.9 0.1 22.8 Currency translation movement 5.0 5.0 6.0 6.0 Defined benefit obligation at end of period 218.1 38.9 257.0 278.9 38.3 317.2 Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year period: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at start of period 219.9 20.8 240.7 208.8 19.4 228.2 Expected return on plan assets 14.9 0.8 15.7 17.5 0.9 18.4 Contributions by employer 6.1 1.5 7.6 15.1 1.1 16.2 Contributions by employees 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 6.0 7.7 13.7 5.6 4.1 9.7 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the SORIE 52.1 0.3 52.4 16.0 16.0 Currency translation movement 2.4 2.4 3.5 3.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 182.8 17.5 200.3 219.9 20.8 240.7 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year period: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Liability at start of year period 59.0 16.9 75.9 70.5 13.4 83.9 Total expense as above 1.5 2.3 3.8 10.5 2.0 12.5 Contributions paid 6.1 1.5 7.6 15.1 1.1 16.2 Actuarial gain loss recognised in the SORIE 19.1 0.1 19.2 6.9 0.2 6.7 Currency translation movement 2.2 2.2 2.4 2.4 Liability at end of year period 35.3 19.8 55.1 59.0 16.9 75.9 96 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 38 Retirement benefits continued Analysis of the balance sheet liability between funded and unfunded plans.
2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 218.1 37.3 255.4 278.9 36.2 315.1 Fair value of plan assets 182.8 17.5 200.3 219.9 20.8 240.7 Present value of unfunded obligations 1.6 1.6 2.1 2.1 Unrecognised past service costs 1.6 1.6 0.6 0.6 Net liability 35.3 19.8 55.1 59.0 16.9 75.9 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity.
2009 2008 Continuing Continuing Discontinued UK France Group UK France Group Operations Total m m m m m m m m At beginning of year period 6.9 4.1 2.8 3.9 3.9 0.1 4.0 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year period 19.1 0.1 19.2 6.9 0.2 6.7 0.6 6.1 At end of year period 26.0 4.0 22.0 6.9 4.1 2.8 0.7 2.1 The actual returns on plan assets were: 2009 2008 Continuing Continuing UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m 37.2 0.8 36.4 1.5 0.9 2.4 History of experience gains and losses 2009 2008 2007 2006 UK France Total UK France Total Total Total Continuing Group m m m m m m m m Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets: Amount 52.1 52.1 16.0 16.0 0.3 18.3 Percentage of scheme assets 29 % 26 % 7 % 7 % 9% Experience gains losses arising on defined benefit obligation: Amount 0.6 0.6 3.3 1.0 4.3 0.5 11.3 Percentage of the present value of defined benefit obligation 1% 1% 3% 1% 4% Present value of scheme liabilities 218.1 38.9 257.0 278.9 38.3 317.2 311.8 320.0 Fair value of scheme assets 182.8 17.5 200.3 219.9 20.8 240.7 228.2 201.2 Deficit 35.3 19.8 55.1 59.0 16.9 75.9 83.9 119.7 The contribution expected to be paid during the financial year ended 30 April 2010 amounts to 6.1m net of expenses for the UK and nil for France.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 97 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 39 Operating lease commitments 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 74.7 3.1 47.8 2.1 Later than one year and less than five years 210.8 19.0 134.7 15.7 After five years 968.9 1.3 996.4 0.7 Total 1,254.4 23.4 1,178.9 18.5 The Group leases various stores, head offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation changes and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
30 April 30 April 2009 2008 Property Property m m Future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 0.1 Later than one year and less than five years 4.5 2.3 After five years 13.9 16.6 Total 18.4 19.0 The Group sub-lets unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
40 Capital and other financial commitments 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for: property, plant and equipment 4.7 6.9 intangible assets 1.6 2.0 Total 6.3 8.9 98 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 41 Related party transactions Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below.
Joint ventures and associates 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Dividends receivable 5.5 5.2 Value of products sold by the Group where an associate has provided credit facilities 164.4 164.6 Commission received from joint ventures 6.8 5.6 Amounts recoverable from joint ventures and associates at 30 April 2009 1.4 1.2 The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales.
Key management personnel 30 April 30April 2009 2008 m m Rent payments 0.7 1.3 Other payments for services 0.6 0.3 Amounts payable to key management personnel Rent payments include 0.7m 30 April 2008: 0.6m paid to members of key management and nil 30 April 2008: 0.7m paid to Directors of subsidiary undertakings, who are not part of key management.
Other payments for services provided by related parties principally comprise administrative, accounting, information technology and human resources services.
0.6m 30 April 2008: 0.3m was paid to members of key management and nil 30 April 2008: nil was paid to Directors of subsidiary undertakings for other services provided during the year.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 99 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 42 Post balance sheet events On 16 June the Group confirmed that it has entered into exclusive negotiations with Swiss electrical retailing chain FUST, regarding the sale of its Swiss operations for CHF 20 million 11.4 million.
The sale will not result in a loss for the Group.
43 Principal subsidiaries Country of Percentage owned Description of share Company incorporation and voting rights classes owned Main activity Etablissements Darty et Fils S. A. S. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing Comet Group plc England and Wales 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing New Vanden Borre S. A. Belgium 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing Datart Investments S. A. Luxembourg 60.0% Ordinary shares Holding company BCC Holding Amstelveen B. V. The Netherlands 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing Menaje del Hogar Sociedad Anonima Spain 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures has been annexed to the Companys latest annual return.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation.
100 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09
