STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International 18 and 19 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: Group financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply and with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board The Directors report contained on pages 20 to 23 includes a fair IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the review of the development and performance of the business and financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the position of the Group, together with a description of the and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the company and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: In accordance with Section 418, Directors reports shall include a statement, in the case of each Director in ofce at the date the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Directors report is approved, that: consistently: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information and prudent: of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed .
and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
38 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09
