111 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Company Financial Statements Accounting Policies Company Accounting Policies Company Basis of preparation contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets The financial statements of fide La Rue plc the Company have and liabilities of the scheme cover the Company and a number been prepared under the historical cost convention and have of its subsidiaries and those assets and liabilities cannot be been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable applicable UK accounting standards.
Full details of the scheme and its deficit measured on an IAS 19 basis can be found in note 25 to the consolidated Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company financial statements.
is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption Share based payment in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial The Company operates various equity settled and cash settled Instruments: Disclosures not to prepare a financial instrument option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by note as the information is available in the published consolidated the issue of shares.
The services received from employees are financial statements of the Group.
measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 Cash shareholders funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will of FRS8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, transactions with entities that are part of the fide La Rue Group.
are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
FRS 20 has been applied to share settled share options granted after 7 The accounts have been prepared as at 28 March 2009, being the November 2002. last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2008 financial year are for the year ended 29 March 2008.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiary undertakings, these awards are The following accounting policies have been applied consistently accounted for by the Company as an additional investment in its in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to subsidiary.
The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 the Company financial statements.
Any payments made by the subsidiary undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as a Foreign currencies return of this investment.
Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded via at the appropriate year end rates of exchange.
Exchange gains the intercompany loan account.
and losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included within the interest section of the profit and loss account except Dividends for exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders that are taken to reserves.
of the Company are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends are Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional recognised in the period that they are paid.
currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Taxation in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such exchange takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Other receivables Other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required Investments by FRS 19.
Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the balance sheet, less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the Financial guarantee contracts investment.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, Retirement benefits the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and The pension rights of the Company employees are dealt with accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it held independently of the Groups finances.
The scheme is a becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions payment under the guarantee.
from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, fide La Rue plc accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined
