72 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Group Accounting Policies Group fide La Rue plc the Company is a public limited company All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of are eliminated on consolidation.
its registered office is disclosed on page 116 of this Annual Report.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year Significant accounting policies and judgements applied ended 28 March 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries Foreign currency together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in Foreign currency transactions associates.
The parent Company financial statements present These financial statements are presented in sterling, which is information about the Company as a separate entity and not the functional and presentational currency of the Company.
The principal activities of the Group are described functional currency of Group entities is principally determined by in note 2.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation the primary economic environment in which the respective entity of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Transactions in foreign currencies entered into by Group entities are translated into the functional currencies of those entities at the Statement of compliance rates of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance that the consolidated financial statements, for the year ended sheet date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
28 March 2009, be prepared in accordance with International Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU in the income statement.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Directors and prepared in accordance with Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the nonThe Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial monetary item itself is recognised in the income statement statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting or in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, Basis of preparation the Group enters into forward contracts refer to the accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under policy on derivative financial instruments for details of the the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting financial instruments.
The accounts have been prepared as at 28 March 2009, being the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the Financial statements of foreign operations 2008 financial year are for the year ended 29 March 2008.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing Basis of consolidation at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial at average exchange rates which approximate to actual rates.
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in Company its subsidiaries up to 28 March 2009.
Control exists the Groups translation reserve, which is a component of equity.
when the Company has the power to govern the financial and When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are part of the gain or loss on sale.
currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included In respect of foreign operations, any differences that have arisen in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, commences or until the date that control ceases.
The majority of are presented as part of retained earnings.
the subsidiaries prepare their financial statements up to 28 March except for certain subsidiaries whose year end is 31 December.
In Net investment in foreign operations the case of the subsidiaries whose financial statements are made Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a up to 31 December 2008, results for the period to 28 March 2009 financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in have been consolidated.
foreign operations are recognised in the translation reserve to the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is ineffective such differences are recognised as finance income of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of or costs in the income statement.
Cumulative gains or losses acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair in equity are taken to the income statement on disposal of the values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as foreign operation.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
73 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Group Financial instruments Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative The Groups operating activities expose it to financial risks of financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
immediately in the Group income statement.
The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including forward contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in foreign Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments operating activities are included in operating profit when are only used for hedging purposes.
The use of financial derivatives recognised in the Group income statement is governed by the Groups risk management policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use Revenue recognition of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk Group revenue predominantly represents sales to external management strategy.
customers of manufactured products which fall within the Groups ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The gain that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably the income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the on the nature of the item being hedged.
Cash flow hedges When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement.
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that However, if the hedged item results in the recognition of a nonassets net carrying amount.
financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included in Intangible assets the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative impairment losses.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a Goodwill hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the of acquisition of a business combination over the Groups share of income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not liabilities of the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
designated as hedging instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition the Fair value hedges goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose For an ef of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and fective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, when there are indications of impairment.
Any impairment loss the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net income.
Embedded derivatives Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other nonamount of goodwill relating to the business.
Goodwill arising on financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are an asset.
reported in the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date Hedge of net investment in foreign operations of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereon are recognised in the income statement.
74 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Group Accounting Policies Group continued Development costs Impairment Expenditure incurred in the development of products or Financial assets enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives once the product or An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at enhancement is available for use.
Product research costs amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying are written off as incurred.
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period at rates which vary from between three and five years.
Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication their useful economic lives as determined by the life of the of impairment.
If any such indication exists then the assets products to which they relate.
For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for Property, plant and equipment use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment for impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at least expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
No depreciation annually for impairment.
Impairment tests are performed for all is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings Cash Generating Units CGUs to which goodwill has been are depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives of 50 allocated at the balance sheet date or whenever there is indication years.
Other leasehold interests are depreciated over the lesser of impairment.
For all other intangible assets, an impairment test is of the unexpired period of the lease and 50 years.
performed whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent per exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the annum.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are 10 per assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use and in the case cent on plant and machinery and on fixtures and fittings.
No of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
In assessing value in use, depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to reviewed at least at each financial year end, taking into account the asset for which the estimates of future cashflows have not commercial and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear been adjusted.
and tear, provision being made where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date, an assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation at the date of that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the exist or has decreased.
Where such an indication exists, an asset, and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the assets carrying the asset.
value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land loss had been recognised.
and buildings are credited to other reserves in shareholders equity.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset are Associated companies charged against other reserves directly in equity: all other An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to decreases are charged to the income statement.
exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity.
75 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Group The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of associated Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such companies are included in these financial statements using the that the rental income is less than the head-lease rental cost, equity method of accounting, except when classified as held for provision is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease sale.
The results are presented after interest, tax and minority payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall interest.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet of sub-lease income compared with the head-lease expense.
at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the Taxation value of the individual investment.
Losses of the associate in The tax expense included in the income statement comprises excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not recognised current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in those losses.
respect of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition of the associate is Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. recognised in equity.
discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured Groups interest in the associate.
Losses may provide evidence using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when appropriate provision is made for impairment.
The majority of the the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
material associated companies prepare their financial information to 28 March except for certain associated companies whose year Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable end is 31 December.
In the case of the associated companies temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised whose financial statements are made up to 31 December, results to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be for the period to 28 March have been included in the consolidated available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, Leasing or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the lessee the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period of the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
time in return for a payment or a series of payments.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated over probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow their useful economic lives.
Lease payments are apportioned all or part of the asset to be recovered.
between repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element of future lease payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted average cost basis and comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs, including direct labour and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing those inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
76 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Group Accounting Policies Group continued Cash and cash equivalents For cash settled share options, the services received from Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options held by the Group and short-term deposits with an original maturity outstanding and recognised in the consolidated income statement of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of demand and form part of the Groups cash management are the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the purpose of the cash flow statement.
IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to equity settled share options granted after Loans 7 November 2002 not yet vested at 1 January 2005 and to Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value outstanding cash settled share options as at 1 January 2005. less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any Share option schemes difference between cost and redemption value being recognised The fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an administered trust.
Liabilities of the trust are guaranteed by the effective interest basis.
Company and the assets of the trust mainly comprise shares in the Company.
Employment benefits Pensions The own shares held by the trust are shown as a reduction in The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
The shares will be held at historical rates major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets held until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits under disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial rather than as a profit and loss item.
Provisions The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present curtailments are included in operating costs in the group income obligation in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outflow statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and where benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straightthe amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of at the Directors best estimate of the amount required to settle funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed interest the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement benefit where the time value of money is considered material.
obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation finance expense respectively in the income statement.
Exceptional items Items which are both material by size and or by nature and nonDifferences between the actual and expected return on assets, recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and consolidated income statement category.
The separate reporting changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of exceptional items charged to operating profit helps to provide of recognised income and expense in full in the period in which an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses other than those within the scope of IFRS 5, restructuring of The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit pension plans businesses and asset impairments.
is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations carried out at the balance sheet date.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements charged to the income statement in the period to which the until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual contributions relate.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Share based payments The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option Segment reporting schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of secondary format is geographical segments.
A business segment the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with of related products and is subject to risks and returns that are a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight line different from those of other business segments.
A geographical basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of shares segment is a component of the Group that operates within a that are actually expected to vest, taking into account non market particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and vesting conditions including service conditions.
Vesting conditions, return that are different from those of components operating in other than market based conditions, are not taken into account other economic environments.
Non specific central costs are when estimating the fair value.
allocated on the basis of estimates of time spent and other cost drivers and this policy is consistently applied.
77 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Group New accounting standards and interpretations Changes in asset lives or residual values would alter the The following IFRS, interpretations and amendments to IFRS and depreciation charge in the income statement.
IAS are not yet effective and have not been early adopted: b Impairment of assets IFRS 8 Operating Segments is effective for the 2009 2010 The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that financial year.
have indefinite useful lives are impaired.
Other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IAS 1 indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 27 Consolidated and recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or Separate Financial Statements and IAS 23 Borrowing costs are a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-in-use all effective for the 2009 2010 financial year.
calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of future cash flows, discounted at suitable rates.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding c Income taxes Requirement and their Interaction are effective for the 2009 2010 The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions financial year.
and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for those taxes.
Calculation of the current tax position The adoption of this IFRS, these interpretations, and amendments involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain items to IFRS and IAS is not expected to have a significant impact on the whose tax treatment is uncertain and which will be resolved at results or net assets of the Group, though they may affect presentation some future date.
Management makes judgements as to the likely and disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
impact and outcome of uncertain or disputed tax treatments.
Deferred tax generally recognises the future reversal of all The following standards and interpretations were not adopted temporary timing differences, but management exercises as at the balance sheet date by the European Commission: judgement in respect of deferred tax assets as to their likely recoverability against future taxable profits.
As this judgement IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for the involves assessment of the future trading prospects of individual 2010 2011 financial year.
statutory entities, the actual outcome may vary from that anticipated.
Where the final tax outcomes differ from the amounts IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective for initially recorded, there will be impacts upon income tax and the 2010 2011 financial year.
deferred tax provisions and the income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate is effective for the 2009 2010 financial year.
d Provisions for other liabilities and charges The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in A Foreign Operation is the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet effective for the 2009 2010 financial year.
date, discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
These estimates take account of available information, IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners is effective historical experience and the likelihood of different possible for the 2010 2011 financial year.
Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities could be different from those estimated.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers is effective for the e Pension obligations 2010 2011 financial year.
Pension costs within the income statement and the pension The adoption of this IFRS and these interpretations is not expected obligations as stated in the balance sheet are both dependent to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
upon a number of assumptions chosen by management.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost income Key sources of estimation uncertainty for pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on In applying the above accounting policies, management has made the relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in appropriate estimates which are continually evaluated and are these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension based on historical experience and other factors, including obligations.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that liabilities are discussed below.
should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension a Property, plant and equipment obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds to write down the cost of such assets to their residual values over that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be their estimated useful lives.
Management determines estimated paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms useful lives and the related depreciation charges at acquisition, of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension based upon historical experience with similar assets and obligations include the estimates of the expected longevity of anticipation of future events such as technological change which current and future pensioners.
might impact upon asset lives.
Subsequently, asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually for appropriateness.
