GloSSary Celebrating Success our annual employee recognition programme for store and head ofce employees.
Concessions Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third-party concessionaire.
they are found chiey in womenswear e. g. Wallis, oasis, Warehouse and accessories e. g. tripp luggage.
Core Stores Stores which have yet to be modernised.
Designers at Debenhams exclusive diffusion ranges designed for debenhams by leading international designers including Julien macdonald, Jasper conran and John rocha.
Desire our smaller format store, typically 15-20,000 sq ft, which sells a mix of own bought womenswear, womens accessories, lingerie, childrenswear and health and beauty.
Direct our online store available at www.
Earnings Per Share EPS the profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Flagship Store a large store, typically over 100,000 sq ft, in a major city.
they include oxford Street and Westeld in london, henry Street in dublin, Birmingham and liverpool.
a new agship store in newcastle upon tyne opens in February 2010.
Footfall the number of people who visit our stores.
Gross Margin Gross transaction value less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of gross transaction value.
Gross Transaction Value revenue excluding vat on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions and staff discounts.
Headline profit Before Tax profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of capitalised bank fees.
International Brands Brands such as levis, Ben Sherman, clarins and este lauder for which debenhams owns the stock.
Market Share the percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by debenhams.
For instance, if 100t-shirts were sold a year in the uK and debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10 per cent market share.
Own Bought Brands for which debenhams owns the stock.
they include core brands, designers at debenhams and international brands.
Own Label Brands designed and produced exclusively for debenhams.
they include core brands such as collection and maine new england and designers at debenhams such as J by Jasper conran and Betty Jackson.
Store Pipeline the future programme of new store openings.
103 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 5 additional information
