com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries.
a Statement of Compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and they are separately presented on pages 112 to 119.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
The Groups significant accounting policies are listed below: b Basis of Preparation The financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and cash-settled share-based transactions that are stated at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by Directors in the application of accounting policies that have a significant effect on the Financial Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 29.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards revisions to Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 3, Business Combinations revised 2008 incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the Companys operations: l contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes recognised in profit or loss: l transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred: l pre-existing interests in the acquiree will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss: and l any non-controlling minority interest will be measured at either fair value or at its proportionate interest in the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on a  basis.
IFRS 3 will become mandatory for the Companys 2010 accounts and will be applied prospectively from 1 July 2009.
The significance or otherwise of the impact of these changes to the Company will depend on the circumstances of any future acquisition.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments requires the identification and disclosure of segments based on the internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
This Standard will be adopted by the Company for its 2010 report and accounts.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure 2008 amendments requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risks.
IFRS 2, Share-based Payments revised 2008 clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and will become mandatory for the Company in its report and accounts for 2010.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Companys results.
73 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 2008 revises the presentation of non-owner changes and introduces a statement of comprehensive income.
IAS 23, Borrowing Costs revised 2008 requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a significant period of time to prepare for use.
The revised requirement will be adopted by the Group in its report and accounts for 2010.
No significant impact on the net results of the Group is anticipated.
IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 requires changes in the level of ownership of a subsidiary, while maintaining control to be recognised in equity.
The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
No significant impact to the Groups net results or net assets is likely to occur.
IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation revised 2008 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations arising on Liquidation.
This is applicable to periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
No impact will arise on the Groups net result from its adoption.
IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement revised 2008 recognition and measurement of eligible hedged items.
This is applicable to periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
No impact is likely to arise on the Groups net result from its adoption.
The following IFRIC interpretations have been issued but have not yet been adopted by the Group: IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
IFRIC 16, Hedge of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards revisions to Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional segment disclosure when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009 and the financial statement presentation changes under IAS 1 revised 2007 2008 which also comes into effect for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. c Basis of Consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
d Business Combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of completion, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Company in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees indentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
e Foreign Currency Translation i Functional Currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Accounting Policies continued ii Foreign Currency Translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
iii Foreign Operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Group presentation currency are translated into Sterling as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at the average rate for the period being reported.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to Shareholders equity, being recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
f Financial Assets and Liabilities Financial Assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: held for trading financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Held for Trading Financial Assets This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are also categorised as held for trading.
Held for trading financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets not carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
75 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the instrument increases in a later period.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Hedging Cash Flow Hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised.
In other cases, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Hedges of Net Investment in Foreign Operations Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the Foreign Currency Translation Reserve within equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
A monetary item receivable or payable with a foreign operation where settlement is neither planned or likely to occur in the foreseeable future can be considered to be in substance a part of the Companys net investment in the foreign operation.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit or loss.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of, or the monetary item no longer meets the criteria for net investment hedge accounting, the associated cumulative amount in equity is transferred to profit or loss as an adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date these are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less an allowance for impairment.
An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The allowance is initially recognised in the income statement.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Accounting Policies continued g Property, Plant and Equipment i Owned Assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. ii Leased Assets Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets acquired by finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
iii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until the date the assets become available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: l freehold buildings 25 years l short leasehold buildings period of lease l plant and fixtures 310 years l motor vehicles 4 years The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
h Intangible Assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 July 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 July 2004 were not reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 July 2004.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is allocated to cashgenerating units and is tested annually for impairment.
ii Research and Development Costs Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred.
The Group is also engaged in development activity with a view to bringing new pharmaceutical products to market.
Internally generated costs of development are capitalised in the balance sheet unless those costs cannot be measured reliably or it is not probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group, in which case the relevant costs are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Due to the strict regulatory process involved, there is inherent uncertainty as to the technical feasibility of development projects often until regulatory approval is achieved, with the possibility of failure even at a late stage.
The Group considers that this uncertainty means that the criteria for capitalisation are not met unless it is highly probable that regulatory approval will be achieved and the project is commercially viable.
77 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Where development costs are capitalised, the expenditure includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
iii Acquired Intangible Assets Intangible assets recognised as a result of a business combination are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
iv Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and other intangibles is recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred.
v Subsequent Expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
vi Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: l software 5 years l capitalised development costs 510 years l acquired intangibles 1015 years l patent rights Period of patent l marketing authorisations Indefinite life l product rights Period of product rights i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
j Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
k Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Accounting Policies continued For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date and when there is an indication that the asset is impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units group of units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the units group of units on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Companys Shareholders or, in the case of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
m Employee Benefits i Pensions The Company operates a Group stakeholder personal pension scheme for certain employees.
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Dechra Veterinary Products SAS and Dechra Veterinary Products BV participate in State run pension arrangements.
These are not considered to be material to the Group financial statements and are accounted for as defined contribution schemes, with contributions being recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Share-based Payment Transactions The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment programmes that allow employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The Group also operates a Long Term Incentive Plan and an Executive Incentive Plan for Directors and senior Executives.
The fair value of shares or options granted is recognised as an employee expense on a straight-line basis in the income statement with a corresponding movement in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares or options the vesting period.
The fair value of the shares or options granted is measured using a valuation model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares or options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in the income statement is adjusted to take into account an estimate of the number of shares or options that are expected to vest together with an adjustment to reflect the number of shares or options that actually do vest except where forfeiture is only due to market-based conditions not being achieved.
The fair values of grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Incentive Plan have been determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair values of options granted under all other share option schemes have been determined using the BlackScholes option pricing model.
National Insurance contributions payable by the Company on the intrinsic value of share-based payments at the date of exercise are treated as cash-settled awards and revalued to market price at each balance sheet date.
79 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued n Revenue i Goods Sold For both Pharmaceuticals and Services, revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
This is normally when the buyer takes delivery of the goods.
Appropriate provision is made, based on past experience, for the possible return of goods and discounts given to customers.
ii Services Provided Revenue is recognised when the contractual service has been provided to the customer.
iii Royalty and Milestone Payments Milestone payments received from the granting of distribution and marketing rights for products are recognised in the income statement over the period in which the Company fulfils the longer of all of its obligations and the period for which rights are granted relating to such payments.
o Expenses i Operating Lease Payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement evenly over the period of the lease, as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance Lease Payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
iii Net Financing Costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement see accounting policy f and gains or losses on the retranslation of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
p Income Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and represents the tax payable or recoverable on most temporary differences which arise between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes the tax base.
Temporary differences are not provided on: goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and do not arise from a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset is realised and is based upon tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is not probable that the related tax benefit will be realised against future taxable profits.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Accounting Policies continued Current and deferred tax credits received in respect of share-based payments are recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that they do not exceed the standard rate of taxation on the Income Statement charge for share-based payments.
Credits in excess of the standard rate of taxation are recognised directly in equity.
q Segment Reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services business segment, or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
r Operating Profit and Operating Cash Flow Operating profit and operating cash flow is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Segmental Analysis The Groups primary reporting segment is business divisions which correspond with the way the operating businesses are organised and managed within the Group and its secondary segment is geographical origin.
Segment results, assets and liabilities comprise those items directly attributable to particular segments as well as items which can reasonably be allocated to those segments.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into applying normal commercial terms that would be available to third parties.
Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets, expenses, loans and borrowings together with the elimination of inter-segment transactions.
The composition of the segments is detailed in the Directors Business Review section of this Annual Report.
