Diageo s report has kept a similar environmental and economic impacts Summary reporting format to the last three at each stage of that cycle.
years, continuing to highlight those The global economic turmoil external economic, social and environmental has been the major world issue during assurance issues that our assessments show to the course of the reporting period, be most material to Diageo and its aff ecting Diageo and all of its key statement and stakeholders.
Although discussed, containing a mix of data, commentary more information could have been commentary and examples that show how Diageo provided on its impact on Diageo as a policies and principles are lived out whole, its diff erent brands and markets, conclusion being in error is very low Assurance statement in practice.
and its implications for future strategy.
Specifi c comments in relation With the economic problems set to Diageo has commissioned Corporate In conducting the assurance we to the three principles of AA1000 continue, we recommend that next Citizenship to provide external have had consideration to the Global are as follows: year s report gives greater weight to assurance and a commentary on its Reporting Initiative Principles for Inclusivity: the commitment to be this issue.
Defi ning Report Content and Ensuring accountable to those on whom The cash value added statement Report Quality.
Diageo is entirely and Diageo has an impact and who have is comprehensive and clearly shows solely responsible for the contents of The scope of our assurance an impact on Diageo, and to enable the distribution of value amongst the report, Corporate Citizenship for their participation in identifying issues stakeholders.
A further step is to unpick The assurance provides the reader with its assurance.
As noted above, our and fi nding solutions the cost of goods and services, one of an independent, external assessment assurance is confi ned to the Corporate Diageo has provided greater the largest areas of economic impact, of the report and, in particular, with Citizenship Report 2009.
A detailed detail on its relationship with breaking it down into diff erent how it corresponds with the AA1000 note of our assurance methodology governments in this report, acting categories of supplier type.
It is intended for the general appears at the end of this statement.
on the point we raised in last year s balance between local and nonlocal reader and for more specialist assurance statement.
There is still suppliers could also be reported.
audiences who have a professional Opinion and conclusions scope for Diageo to be more Diageo has policies that ensure interest in Diageo s sustainability transparent in its reporting on public employees are treated fairly and that performance.
In our opinion the Diageo Corporate policy.
In particular, more information diversity is encouraged.
Although data Diageo has chosen to use the Citizenship Report 2009 refl ects the could be provided on Diageo s on gender is included, future reporting AA1000 assurance standard principles of AA1000 2008 : inclusivity, relationship with trade associations would be enhanced with the addition AA1000AS 2008.
Our assurance is a materiality and responsiveness.
Further as well as key issues about which the of further diversity indicators, such as Type 2 assurance as defi ned by the information on Diageo s performance company has lobbied governments age and disability, to allow a more standard, in that it evaluates the nature against these three principles can be in its diff erent markets during the robust assessment of performance and extent of adherence to the seen below in the commentary.
The explanation of in this area.
AA1000AS principles of inclusivity, specifi ed sustainability performance Diageo s approach to tax, and details Responsiveness: response to materiality and responsiveness and information is reliable and accurate.
of its engagement with governments stakeholder issues that aff ect assures the behaviour of the This conclusion is made following on taxrelated issues, is more Diageo s sustainability performance organisation as reported here.
Our interviews with a range of key issue comprehensive than previous reports Reporting stakeholder assurance used disclosed information owners from across the business and and compares well with best practice.
engagement activities across 180 as its starting point and then checks on a sample basis of elements Responsible drinking is a critical markets globally is a challenge.
investigated the underlying systems, of the reports contents to underlying issue for Diageo and, as with previous Diageo does provide an outline of its processes and sustainability records.
The level of assurance is that reports, initiatives to promote engagement with key stakeholder performance information to arrive defi ned by AA1000 as high.
responsible drinking across its groups, but there is scope to provide at its conclusions.
In addition, it has We also worked with Diageo to operating regions are clearly greater information on engagement verifi ed the reliability of selected ensure that it understands the LBG articulated.
Next year, more could and issues raised, linking actions and reported sustainability performance model and has applied its principles be said about the characteristics of behaviours throughout the report information.
to the measurement of community consumers of Diageo s key brands, with feedback received.
We have verifi ed the involvement programmes during the the issues they face and how these Diageo does provide some good environmental and social performance reporting period.
Having conducted shape the company s approach to examples of responsiveness.
For but not the economic data.
In terms an assessment, we are satisfi ed that responsible drinking.
instance, the community initiative of emissions we have referred to the this has been achieved.
Materiality: determining the relevance Giving is Good was set up in response WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, and signifi cance of issues to Diageo to employee feedback, and a major checking conversion factors in Commentary and its stakeholders supplier of branded merchandising each country of operation and the Diageo is a complex multi - materials was changed in light of rationale for their use.
In addition, In our view, corporate responsibility national organisation with a wide ethical sourcing assurance.
Diageo the community data has been reports should explain how a company portfolio of products.
The report already works with suppliers to help assessed against the LBG London impacts on society, taking account includes a concise overview of the them develop their commercial Benchmarking Group model, the of the economic, social, and business and brands, but future capabilities, but a next step would international standard for measuring environmental footprint of the reports would be improved by more be to proactively engage suppliers corporate community investment, organisation and its value chain.
clearly conveying how the business to help them improve their own which covers contributions in time, in Companies should aim to explain how works.
With such a complex supply environmental and social kind and in cash as well as the actual important decisions are made and chain the casual reader would benefi t performance.
results for the community and the diff ering interests balanced.
Reports from a better understanding of business see www.
net for should be honest about shortcomings the process from raw materials to Corporate Citizenship more information.
and demonstrate how a company is consumption, which varies between London The level of assurance is high, evolving in response to stakeholder brands.
We recommend reporting on 21 August 2009 that is to say that we believe there to concerns by listening, learning and the full lifecycle of a major Diageo be suffi cient evidence to support the improving.
brand s, analysing its specifi c social, statement such that the risk of the 2009 Diageo plc.
Diageo plc All rights reserved.
8 Henrietta Place All brands mentioned London in this Annual Report W1G 0NB are trademarks and are registered and or United Kingdom otherwise protected in accordance with Tel applicable law.
com Registered in England No.
