Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 157 Additional information for shareholders Legal proceedings Information on legal proceedings is set out in note 29 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Related party transactions Transactions with directors are disclosed in the directors remuneration report see Directors remuneration report Additional information and transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 30 to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Material contracts Agreement for the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses On 19 December 2000, Diageo and Pernod Ricard SA entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement the SAPA with Vivendi Universal SA, whereby Pernod Ricard and Diageo agreed to acquire stock and assets of the worldwide spirits, wines, wine and malt coolers, other malt beverages, fortifi ed wines, non-alcoholic mixers and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages business of The Seagram Company Limited.
The acquisition was completed on 21 December 2001.
The acquisition consideration, under the SAPA, was $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash, subject to a number of adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price, after adjustment, was 3.7 billion.
The terms of the bidding and acquisition arrangements between Pernod Ricard and Diageo for the Seagram acquisition were governed by the Framework Implementation Agreement, a formal agreement entered into on 4 December 2000 which was subsequently amended and restated the FIA.
The FIA set out amongst other things principles governing the split of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses, the integration process for the business and the interim management of the non-core businesses.
The FIA was terminated by the execution of a further agreement on 21 December 2002 which was subsequently amended and supplemented the SOFIA although this termination is without prejudice to any prior breaches of the FIA.
Under the SOFIA, all material assets that were jointly acquired by Pernod Ricard and Diageo from Vivendi Universal are allocated between Diageo and Pernod Ricard.
A number of the provisions of the FIA have been carried forward into the SOFIA in modifi ed form.
These include provisions relating to the parties responsibility for liabilities incurred by or in connection with the various businesses acquired under the SAPA including for the sharing of certain liabilities between the parties.
Where liability is to be shared between Diageo and Pernod Ricard, this is generally on the basis of the same 60.9 39.1 ratio adopted for the FIA subject to, amongst other things, fide minimis limitations that limit the ability of one party to recover from the other in certain cases and to detailed conduct of claims provisions.
The SOFIA also provides for the settlement of various historic and ongoing claims between the parties under the FIA and for the settlement of various costs and expenses including future costs and expenses.
In addition, the SOFIA provides the basis for the management of the remaining jointly-owned businesses including for their future restructuring and or liquidation.
Share capital 101 As at 10 August 2009, Diageo had an authorised share capital of 5,329 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal 101 value of 1,542 million, and an allotted and fully paid share capital of 2,754 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of 797 million including treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
Major shareholders At 10 August 2009, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notifi ed to the company.
Percentage of issued Number of ordinary share capital Date of notifi cation Shareholder ordinary shares excluding treasury shares of interest Capital Research and Management Company indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 Legal & General Group Plc direct holding 107,824,143 4.12% 26 October 2007 The company has not been notifi ed of any other substantial interests in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have diff erent voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the company.
As at the close of business on 10 August 2009, 544,805,084 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by approximately 2,852 holders including American Depositary Receipt ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 22% of the outstanding ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
At such date, 135,969,163 ADSs were held by 2,094 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet or Guinness Group ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of benefi cial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
