Diageo Annual Report 2009 68 Business review Sensitivity analysis table 1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% in interest in interest weakening strengthening rates rates in sterling in sterling million million million million At 30 June 2009 Impact on income statement: gain loss 33 39 38 31 a Impact on equity: gain loss 30 31 834 682 At 30 June 2008 Impact on income statement: gain loss 24 24 31 25 a Impact on equity: gain loss 24 24 727 595 a The groups foreign currency debt is used as a hedge of net investments in foreign operations and as such the translation of foreign net investments would mostly off set the foreign currency gains or losses on fi financial instruments recognised directly in equity.
The above analysis considers the impact of all fi financial instruments including fi financial derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and other fi financial assets and liabilities.
Critical accounting policies This section on critical accounting policies forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The consolidated fi financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Diageos accounting policies are set out in the notes to the consolidated fi financial statements in this annual report.
In applying these policies the directors are required to make estimates and subjective judgements that may aff ect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported profi t for the year.
The directors base these on a combination of past experience and any other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The actual outcome could diff er from those estimates.
Of Diageos accounting policies, the directors consider that policies in relation to the following areas are particularly subject to estimates and the exercise of judgement.
Brands, goodwill and other intangibles Acquired intangible assets are held on the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Where these assets are regarded as having indefi nite useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
Assessment of the useful economic life of an asset, or that an asset has an indefi nite life, requires management judgement.
Impairment reviews are carried out to ensure that intangible assets, including brands, are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
In particular, the group performs a discounted cash fl ow analysis at least annually to compare discounted estimated future operating cash fl ows to the net carrying value of each acquired brand.
The analysis is based on forecast cash fl ows with terminal values being calculated using the long term growth rate the real GDP growth rate of the country plus its infl ation rate of the principal countries in which the majority of the profi ts of each brand are generated.
The estimated cash fl ows are discounted at the groups weighted average cost of capital in the relevant country.
In assessing whether goodwill is carried at above its recoverable amount, a discounted cash fl ow analysis is performed annually to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash fl ows of cash generating units of the group to the net assets attributable to the cash generating units including goodwill.
The discounted cash fl ow review is consistent with the brand review in its use of estimated future operating cash fl ows, weighted average cost of capital for the cash generating unit concerned and long term growth rates.
The tests are dependent on managements estimates and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash fl ows, the discount rates applied to those cash fl ows and the expected long term growth rates.
Such estimates and judgements are subject to change as a result of changing economic conditions.
Management attempts to make the most appropriate estimates, but actual cash fl ows and rates may be diff erent.
For some recently acquired intangible assets, there is limited headroom as the recoverable amount has been aff ected in the short term by the slowdown in the worlwide economy.
For the Ketel One vodka worldwide distribution rights, acquired on 9 June 2008, a negative change in the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount would result in an impairment charge.
A 1% increase in the discount rate, a 1% decrease in the long term growth rate or a 5% decrease in forecast annual cash fl ows would result in an impairment charge of 105 million, 65 million or 44 million, respectively.
