Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 151 Accounting policies of the company Basis of preparation The fi financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modifi ed to include revaluations to fair value of certain fi financial instruments, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company is exempt from presenting a profi t and loss account.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash fl ow statement under the provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed transactions with subsidiary undertakings.
The following paragraphs describe the signifi cant accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for permanent diminution in value.
They are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Dividends paid and received The interim dividend is included in the fi financial statements in the period in which it is approved by the directors, and the fi final dividend in the period in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Dividends received are included in the fi financial statements in the period in which they are receivable.
Share-based payments employee benefi ts The fair value of share options or share grants is initially measured at grant date, based on the binomial or Monte Carlo model, and is recognised as a cost to the company or an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work, over the vesting period of the option or share grant, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves.
Any payments received from the companys subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments result in a reduction in the cost of investment.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company directly or by share trusts for the purpose of fulfi lling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or defi cit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the company is included as an adjustment to reserves.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates at the balance sheet date.
Pensions and other post employment benefi ts Diageo operates a number of defi ned benefi t pension plans.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the company accounts for them as defi ned contribution plans.
Contributions payable in respect of defi ned contribution plans are charged to operating profi t as incurred.
The company operates a number of post employment benefi t plans which are unfunded.
For these plans, the amount charged in the profi t and loss account is equivalent to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
Any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans are recognised in shareholders equity.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet represents the present value of the obligations under the plans, net of related deferred tax.
Taxation Tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing diff erences between the recognition of gains and losses in the fi financial statements and their recognition in tax computations, using appropriate tax rates.
The company does not discount these balances.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates where no commitment has been made to remit such earnings.
Financial instruments The companys accounting policies for fi financial instruments under UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation, FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement and FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures, are the same as the groups accounting policies under IFRS, namely IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures.
These policies are set out under the heading Derivative fi financial instruments in the Accounting policies of the group.
As consolidated fi financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in note 22 to the consolidated fi financial statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
