Diageo Annual Report 2009 158 Additional information for shareholders Trading market for shares The Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo plc American Depositary Shares ADSs, representing four Diageo plc ordinary shares each, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders Additional information placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then for shareholders time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
157 Legal proceedings Only member fi rms of the Exchange can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
157 Related party Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, must be transactions published immediately after execution unless they are large trades eligible for deferred publication.
157 Material contracts The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID repealed the Investment Services Directive ISD on 1 November 2007.
It replaced 157 S hare capital the worked principal agreement basis for delayed reporting of large trades with a sliding scale requirement based on qualifying minimum 158 M emorandum and articles of association thresholds for the amount of consideration to be paid the proportion of average daily turnover ADT of a stock represented by a trade.
161 Exchange controls Provided that a trade consideration equals or exceeds the qualifying minimum size, it will be eligible for deferred publication ranging from 161 Documents on display 60 minutes from time of trade to three trading days after time of trade.
Diageo ordinary shares have an ADT of 80 million.
The ADT for each 162 Taxation equity security is calculated as the yearly turnover divided by the number of trading days, excluding negotiated trades i. e. those trades 164 Glossary of terms and privately negotiated but executed within the exchange.
US equivalents Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will aff ect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will aff ect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fl uctuations will aff ect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Offi cial List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
Memorandum and articles of association The following description summarises certain provisions of Diageos memorandum of association and of its articles of association as amended by special resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 15 October 2008 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each case as at 10 August 2009.
This summary is qualifi ed in its entirety by reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos memorandum and articles of association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of the memorandum and articles of association is provided under Additional information for shareholders Documents on display below.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 October 2009 to adopt new articles of association.
The proposed changes refl ect the fi final phase of the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
If adopted, the changes will be refl ected in the summary of the articles which will appear in the 2010 Annual Report.
All of Diageos ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by Diageo from the holders of such shares.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information 159 for shareholders Objects and purposes Diageo is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307.
Diageos objects and purposes are set forth in the fourth clause of its memorandum of association and cover a wide range of activities, including carrying on the business of a holding company, carrying on the business of producing, distributing and marketing branded drinks and brewing, distilling and manufacturing wines, spirits and mineral or other types of water, as well as doing anything incidental or conducive to the attainment of its objectives.
The memorandum of association grants Diageo a broad range of powers to eff ect these objectives.
Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and aff airs of Diageo are vested.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by the board of directors.
At each annual general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then reconsidered for re-election, assuming they wish to stand for re-election: any director who has been appointed by the board of directors since the last annual general meeting: any director who has been in offi ce during the two previous general meetings and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been in offi ce, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit requirement in respect of directors.
Under Diageos articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the director has an interest.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply where the interest cannot reasonably be regarded as giving rise to a confl ict of interest, nor to resolutions a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred for the benefi t of Diageo, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of obligations of Diageo for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee or by the giving of security, c relating to an off er of securities of Diageo in which the director participates or may participate as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting, d relating to any contract in which the director is interested by virtue of the directors interest in securities of Diageo or by reason of any other interest in or through Diageo, e concerning any other company in which the director is directly or indirectly interested, provided that the director does not have a relevant interest in that company, f relating to the arrangement of any employee benefi t including any retirement benefi t plan in which the director will share equally with other employees, g relating to any insurance that Diageo purchases or maintains for its directors or any group of people, including directors, h giving the director an indemnity where all the other directors are being off ered indemnities on substantially the same terms, and i for the funding by Diageo of the directors expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by Diageo of anything to enable the director to avoid incurring such expenditure where all the other directors are being off ered substantially the same arrangements.
A director cannot vote in relation to any resolution of the board concerning his own appointment, or the settlement or variation of the terms or the termination of his own appointment, as the holder of any offi ce or place of profi t with Diageo or any company in which Diageo is interested.
Under the articles of association, compensation awarded to directors may be decided by the board or any authorised committee of the board.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board concerning matters relating to remuneration policy.
It is comprised of all the non-executive directors except for the chairman.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Diageo to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net external borrowings of the group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the aggregate of the groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Diageos shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of Diageo as a qualifi cation to act as a director.
Dividend rights Holders of Diageos ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends or fi xed rate dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profi ts available for distribution.
All of Diageos ordinary shares rank equally for dividends, but the board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Diageos shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defi ned in the articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defi ned in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Dividends may be paid in currencies other than pounds sterling and such dividends will be calculated using an appropriate market exchange rate as determined by the directors in accordance with Diageos articles of association.
If a dividend has not been claimed, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefi t of Diageo until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date such dividend was declared or became due for payment, it will be forfeited and will revert to Diageo unless the directors decide otherwise.
Diageo may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar fi financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means for payment of dividends if either a at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed, or b one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
Diageo must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar fi financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Diageos articles of association permit payment or satisfaction of a dividend wholly or partly by distribution of specifi c assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the directors.
Voting rights Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not cast all his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 160 Additional information for shareholders A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairman of the meeting: at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting Additional information rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution: or for shareholders any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant resolution on 157 Legal proceedings which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring 157 Related party that right.
transactions 157 Material contracts Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the proposing 157 Share capital and passing of two kinds of resolutions: 158 M emorandum and articles of association ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of fi final dividends, 161 E xchange controls the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor, the increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot 161 D ocuments on display shares: and 162 Taxation special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment of Diageos memorandum or articles of association, resolutions relating 164 Glossary of terms and to the disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders US equivalents of such class.
An ordinary resolution requires the affi rmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the affi rmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled to cast the deciding vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served with a restriction notice as defi ned in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of Diageo, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority in accordance with English law, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than fi five years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without fi first making an off er to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Disclosure of interests in Diageos shares There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of Diageos shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Companies Acts.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify Diageo and the Financial Services Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in Diageo he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain fi financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole percentage fi gure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares or fi financial instruments: or reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any change in the breakdown or number of voting rights attached to shares in Diageo.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specifi ed persons.
Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
Rule 3 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules further requires persons discharging managerial responsibilities within Diageo and their connected persons to notify Diageo of transactions conducted on their own account in Diageo shares or derivatives or certain fi financial instruments relating to Diageo shares.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an off eror or off eree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an off er period.
