Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 65 Post employment benefi t liabilities are also not included in the table above.
The group makes service-based cash contributions to the Diageo pension scheme in the United Kingdom.
In the year ending 30 June 2010, the contribution is expected to be 46 million.
In addition, the group has agreed a defi cit funding plan with the trustee of the UK Diageo Pension Scheme, which provides for the group to make a further payment of 50 million in the year to 30 June 2010 into an escrow account.
The amount already held in escrow at 30 June 2009 is 144 million.
It is anticipated that the escrow will be released to the trustee and invested into the Scheme during the year ending 30 June 2010.
Funding arrangements are being reviewed and may be adjusted following agreement between Diageo and the trustee, based on the results of the valuation as at 31 March 2009.
Additionally, funding arrangements will be reviewed and adjusted in the light of future triennial actuarial valuations.
Contributions to other plans in the year ending 30 June 2010 are expected to be approximately 125 million.
Offbalance sheet arrangements In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury in October 2001, Diageo has guaranteed debt of International Multifoods Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of The JM Smucker Company as from 18 June 2004, to the amount of $200 million 121 million, until November 2009.
The directors are not aware of any instances of default by the borrower at present, but the ability of the borrower to continue to be in compliance with the guaranteed debt instrument, and in particular remaining current on payments of interest and repayments of principal, is signifi cantly dependent on the current and future operations of the borrower and its affi liates.
This guarantee is unrelated to the ongoing operations of the groups business.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo group has any offbalance sheet fi nancing arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material future eff ect on the groups fi financial condition, changes in fi financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.
Risk management This section on risk management forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are managed by the groups treasury department.
The treasury department uses a combination of derivative and conventional fi financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and subsequently monitored by the fi finance committee.
This committee is described in the corporate governance report.
These policies and guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.
The benchmarks, hedge cover and overall appropriateness of Diageos risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, signifi cant business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defi ned levels of fl exibility in execution to allow for the optimal application of the board-approved strategies.
Transactions giving rise to exposures away from the defi ned benchmark levels arising on the application of this fl exibility are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.
These derivative fi financial instruments are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise.
At 30 June 2009 gains and losses on these transactions were not material.
The fi finance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures away from the defi ned benchmarks.
Currency risk The group publishes its consolidated fi financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements, which will aff ect the groups transaction costs and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
Where hedge accounting is applied, hedges are documented and tested for hedge eff ectiveness on an ongoing basis.
Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be eff ective and therefore does not expect the impact of ineff ectiveness on the income statement to be material.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fl uctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign operations by designating net borrowings held in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards.
Where a liquid foreign exchange market exists, the groups policy approved by the board is to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net investment in foreign operations within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars, 80% to 100% for euros and 50% to 100% for other signifi cant currencies.
Exchange diff erences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings including foreign currency swaps and forwards, to the extent that they are in an eff ective hedge relationship, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense to match exchange diff erences on net investments in foreign operations.
Exchange diff erences on foreign currency borrowings not in a hedge relationship and any ineff ectiveness are taken to the income statement.
