Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information 161 for shareholders General meetings and notices At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting is required.
Any general meeting which is not an annual general meeting is called a general meeting.
Since the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the minimum notice period for general meetings has increased from 14 to 21 clear days.
This can, however, be reduced to 14 clear days, subject to shareholder approval, and off ering shareholders the facility to vote electronically.
Diageo already off ers shareholders the facility to vote by electronic means via its online proxy service, and intends to put the necessary resolution to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to approve the holding of subsequent general meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This approval will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held within six months of Diageos accounting reference date and at a time and place determined by the directors.
The chairman of any general meeting is entitled to refuse admission to or eject from that general meeting any person who fails to comply with any security arrangements or restrictions that the board may impose.
Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into diff erent classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any holder of shares of the class who is present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares, in each case in accordance with the Companies Acts and the articles of association.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 252 million ordinary shares during the period up to the next Annual General Meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid 101 for such shares is 28 108 pence and the maximum price is the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Offi cial List for the fi five preceding business days and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
Restrictions on transfers of shares The board may decline to register a transfer of a certifi cated Diageo share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certifi ed or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certifi cate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertifi cated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertifi cated securities rules as defi ned in the articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertifi cated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certifi cated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defi ned in the articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defi ned in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defi ned in the articles of association.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys memorandum and articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
Documents on display The latest Annual Report, the Annual Review and any related documents of the company may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
