Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 31 cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will be suffi cient or that third parties will not infringe on or including tax rates or currency exchange rate misappropriate its intellectual accounting standards, changes fl uctuations and changes in property rights.
Moreover, some in taxation requirements, such the cost of capital, which may of the countries in which Diageo as the impact of excise tax reduce or eliminate Diageos operates off er less intellectual increases with respect to the access to or increase the cost of property protection than Europe Cautionary statement business, and changes in fi nancing or which may aff ect or North America.
Given the environmental laws, health Diageos fi financial results.
concerning  of Diageos brands regulations and laws governing looking statements to consumers, it is not uncommon pensions: All oral and written forwardfor counterfeit products to be This document contains forwarddevelopments in any litigation looking statements made on or manufactured.
Diageo cannot be looking statements.
These or other similar proceedings after the date of this document certain that the steps it takes to statements can be identifi ed by directed at the drinks and spirits and attributable to Diageo are prevent, detect and eliminate the fact that they do not relate industry generally or at Diageo expressly qualifi ed in their entirety counterfeit products will be only to historical or current facts.
in particular, or the impact of by the above factors and those eff ective in preventing material In particular, forward-looking a product recall or product described in Business description loss of profi ts or erosion of brand statements include all statements liability claim on Diageos Risk factors.
Any forward-looking equity resulting from lower quality that express forecasts, profi tability or reputation: statements made by or on behalf or even dangerous counterfeit expectations, plans, outlook and developments in the of Diageo speak only as of the date product reaching the market.
If projections with respect to future Colombian litigation and they are made.
Diageo does not Diageo is unable to protect its matters, including trends in results Turkish customs litigation undertake to update forwardintellectual property rights against of operations, margins, growth or any similar proceedings: looking statements to refl ect any infringement or misappropriation, rates, overall market trends, the changes in consumer changes in Diageos expectations this could materially harm its future impact of interest or exchange preferences and tastes, with regard thereto or any fi financial results and ability to rates, the availability or cost of demographic trends or changes in events, conditions or develop its business.
fi nancing to Diageo, anticipated perceptions about health circumstances on which any such cost savings or synergies, the related issues: or contamination, statement is based.
The reader It may be diffi cult to eff ect completion of Diageos strategic counterfeiting or other should, however, consult any service of US process and enforce transactions and general circumstances which could additional disclosures that Diageo US legal process against the economic conditions.
By their harm the integrity of sales of may make in any documents directors of Diageo nature, forward-looking Diageos brands: which it publishes and or fi les with Diageo is a public limited statements involve risk and changes in the cost of raw the US Securities and Exchange company incorporated under the uncertainty because they relate materials, labour and or energy: Commission.
All readers, wherever laws of England and Wales.
The to events and depend on changes in economic located, should take note of majority of Diageos directors and circumstances that will occur in conditions in countries and these disclosures.
offi cers, and some of the experts the future.
There are a number of markets in which Diageo The information in this named in this document, reside factors that could cause actual operates, including changes in document does not constitute outside of the United States, results and developments to diff er levels of consumer spending an off er to sell or an invitation principally in the United Kingdom.
materially from those expressed or and failure of customer, supplier to buy shares in Diageo plc or A substantial portion of Diageos implied by these forward-looking and fi financial counterparties: an invitation or inducement to assets, and the assets of such statements, including factors that levels of marketing, engage in any other investment persons, are located outside of the are outside Diageos control.
Therefore, it may not These factors include, but are expenditure by Diageo and its This document includes be possible to eff ect service of not limited to: competitors: information about Diageos debt process within the United States global economic downturn: renewal of distribution or rating.
A security rating is not a upon Diageo or these persons in increased competitive product licence manufacturing rights recommendation to buy, sell or order to enforce judgements of US and pricing pressures and on favourable terms when hold securities and may be subject courts against Diageo or these unanticipated actions by they expire: to revision or withdrawal at any persons based on the civil liability competitors that could impact termination of existing time by the assigning rating provisions of the US federal on Diageos market share, distribution or licence organisation.
Each rating should securities laws.
There is doubt as to increase expenses and hinder manufacturing rights on be evaluated independently of the enforceability in England and growth potential: agency brands: any other rating.
Wales, in original actions or in the eff ects of business systems change programmes, Past performance cannot be actions for enforcement of combinations, partnerships, existing or future, and the relied upon as a guide to future judgements of US courts, of civil acquisitions or disposals, ability to derive expected performance.
liabilities solely based on the US existing or future, and the benefi ts from such federal securities laws.
ability to realise expected programmes, and systems synergies and or cost savings: failure that could lead to Diageos ability to complete business disruption: existing or future acquisitions technological developments and disposals: that may aff ect the distribution legal and regulatory of products or impede Diageos developments, including ability to protect its intellectual changes in regulations property rights: and regarding consumption of, or changes in fi financial and equity advertising for, beverage markets, including signifi cant alcohol, changes in tax law interest rate and foreign Diageo Annual Report 2009 32 Business review contents 33 Introduction 35 Operating results 2009 compared with 2008 48 Operating results 2008 compared with 2007 61 Trend information 61 Liquidity and capital resources 64 Contractual obligations 65 Offbalance sheet arrangements 65 Risk management 67 Market risk sensitivity analysis 68 Critical accounting policies 69 New accounting standards No2 Partnering with customers Highly Diageo has invested in its eff ective routes sales capabilities to build on its relationships and become to market an important business partner for its customers.
An increasing amount of Diageos consumer research is now focused on shopping behaviour, which informs point of purchase strategies for Diageo and its customers.
