Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the consolidated 143 fi financial statements The Nolet Group has an option to sell their 50% equity stake in the company to Diageo for $900 million 545 million plus interest from 9 June 2011 to 9 June 2013.
If the Nolet Group exercises this option but Diageo chooses not to buy their stake, Diageo will pay $100 million 61 million and the Nolet Group may then pursue a sale of their stake to a third party, subject to rights of fi first off er and last refusal on Diageos part.
The group recognised a fi financial liability of 32 million at fair value for the potential amount payable to the Nolet Group, as part of consideration payable.
Fair value adjustments on acquisition included the recognition of worldwide distribution rights into perpetuity of Ketel One vodka products valued at 911 million and the establishment of a deferred tax liability of 116 million.
Goodwill of 166 million was recognised on the acquisition.
On 1 May 2008, a venture, DHN Drinks, was formed between Diageo, Heineken and Namibia Breweries Limited NBL to market their combined beer, cider and ready to drink businesses in South Africa.
Diageo and Heineken each own 42.25% of DHN Drinks and NBL owns 15.5%.
Diageo equity accounts for this investment.
The cost of this acquisition in the year ended 30 June 2008 was 43 million, with an additional cost of 3 million recognised in the year ended 30 June 2009.
Diageo and Heineken also entered into an agreement whereby an entity, Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited, was created on 1 May 2008 to construct a brewery and bottling plant in South Africa.
Heineken owns 75% and Diageo owns 25% of Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited.
The cost of this acquisition in the year ended 30 June 2008 was 8 million, included in investments in associates, with an additional cost of 19 million recognised in the year ended 30 June 2009.
On 29 February 2008, 100% of the equity of Rosenblum Cellars was acquired for 53 million including acquisition costs.
Additional costs of 1 million relating to the acquisition were incurred in the year ended 30 June 2009.
Net assets acquired at fair value were 46 million, including a brand valued at 33 million, with goodwill of 8 million arising on the acquisition.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings a Guarantees In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury, Diageo has guaranteed the debt of a third party to the amount of $200 million 121 million until November 2009.
Including this guarantee, but net of the amount provided in the consolidated fi financial statements, at 30 June 2009 the group has given performance guarantees and indemnities to third parties of 148 million.
There has been no material change since 30 June 2009 in the groups performance guarantees and indemnities.
b Colombian litigation An action was fi led on 8 October 2004 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by the Republic of Colombia and a number of its local government entities against Diageo and other spirits companies.
The complaint alleges several causes of action.
Included among the causes of action is a claim that the defendants allegedly violated the Federal RICO Act by facilitating money laundering in Colombia through their supposed involvement in the contraband trade to the detriment of government owned spirits production and distribution businesses.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which the lawsuit may give rise.
Diageo intends to defend itself vigorously against this lawsuit.
c Turkish customs litigation In common with other beverage alcohol importers, litigation is ongoing against Diageos Turkish subsidiary in the Turkish Civil Courts in connection with the methodology used by the Turkish customs authorities in assessing the importation value of and duty payable on the beverage alcohol products sold in the domestic channel in Turkey.
The matter involves multiple cases against Diageos Turkish subsidiary at various stages of litigation, including a group of cases under correction appeal following an adverse fi nding at the Turkish Supreme Court.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which these cases may give rise.
Diageos Turkish subsidiary intends to defend its position vigorously.
d SEC investigation As previously reported, Diageo Korea and several of its current and former employees have been subject to investigations by Korean authorities regarding various regulatory and control matters.
Convictions for improper payments to a Korean customs offi cial have been handed down against two former Diageo Korea employees, and three current and former Diageo Korea employees have been convicted on various counts of tax evasion.
Diageo had previously voluntarily reported the allegations relating to the convictions for improper payments to the US Department of Justice and the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
The SEC has commenced an investigation into these matters, and Diageo is in the process of responding to the regulators inquiries.
Diageos own internal investigation in Korea and elsewhere is ongoing.
The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA and related statutes and regulations provide for potential monetary penalties, criminal sanctions and may result in some cases in debarment from doing business with governmental entities in connection with FCPA violations.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss to which these matters may give rise.
e Other The group has extensive international operations and is defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to these operations.
There are a number of legal claims against the group, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a signifi cant eff ect on the fi financial position of the Diageo group.
