Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the consolidated 145 fi financial statements 32.
Employee share compensation The group uses a number of equity settled share plans to grant options and share awards to its directors and employees.
For the year ended 30 June 2009, the fair value charge to the consolidated income statement in respect of these plans was 31 million 2008 26 million: 2007 25 million, including 2 million exceptional operating costs 2008 and 2007 nil.
Executive share option plans a Diageo executive share option plan DSOP This scheme was introduced in December 1999 and grants options to executives at the market value at the time of grant.
Options granted under this scheme may normally be exercised between three and 10 years after the date granted.
There are no performance conditions to be satisfi ed, although the top 80 senior executives are required to hold shares in Diageo plc.
US executives are granted options over the companys ADSs one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
b Diageo senior executive share option plan 2008 SESOP 2008 This scheme was introduced in October 2008 to replace the previous SESOP 1999 described below and grants options to senior executives at the market value at the time of grant.
Options granted under this scheme may normally be exercised between three and 10 years after the date granted but only to the extent that a performance condition is satisfi ed.
The current performance condition is based on the increase in Diageos adjusted earnings per share EPS over a three-year period.
Growth targets are set annually by the remuneration committee.
For the 2008 grant, targets were set at 6% to 10% compound annual growth in adjusted EPS.
The proportion of options that can be exercised depends on the extent to which the EPS growth targets have been met.
For the 2008 grant, the exercise range is 30% for threshold performance up to 100% for achieving 10% or more compound annual growth in adjusted EPS.
Re-testing of the performance condition is not permitted.
US executives are granted options over the companys ADSs.
c Diageo senior executive share option plan 1999 SESOP 1999 This scheme was introduced with eff ect from 1 January 2000 and granted options to senior executives at the market value at the time of grant.
The last grant under this scheme was made in September 2007.
Options granted under the scheme would normally be exercised between three and 10 years after the date granted but only to the extent that a performance condition is satisfi ed.
The performance condition for awards currently outstanding is based on the increase in Diageos adjusted EPS measure over a three-year period.
If the increase in this EPS measure is at least 15 percentage points greater than the increase in the RPI over the same period, then all the options can be exercised.
If the increase in this EPS measure is at least 12 percentage points greater than that of the RPI but less than 15 percentage points, half of the options can be exercised.
Re-testing of the performance condition is not permitted on any options.
US executives were granted options over the companys ADSs.
d Diageo associated companies share option plan DACSOP This scheme was introduced in March 2001 and grants options to executives in a number of associated companies.
The main terms of the scheme are the same as for DSOP.
Savings plans a UK savings-related share option scheme SRSOS The UK savings-related share option scheme is an HM Revenue & Customs approved scheme available to all UK employees.
The scheme provides a long term savings opportunity for employees who can use their savings to pay the exercise price of a share option.
Options may normally be exercised after three or fi five years, according to the length of the option period chosen by the employee, at a price that is not less than 80% of the market value of the shares at the time of the option grant.
b ROI savings-related share option scheme ISRSOS The ROI savings-related share option scheme operates on a similar basis to the equivalent UK scheme described above for employees based in the Republic of Ireland.
c US employee stock purchase plan USESPP This plan provides a long term savings and investment opportunity for US employees who can use their savings to pay the exercise price of a share option.
Options may normally be exercised 12 months after grant at a price equivalent to 85% of the market value of the ADSs at the time of the option grant.
d International savings-related share option plan International The group also operates an international savings-related share option plan.
The plan provides a long term savings opportunity for employees outside the United Kingdom who can use their savings to pay the exercise price of a share option.
Options may be exercised between one and fi five years after grant.
The option exercise price can be set at a discount to the market value at the time of grant, ranging from nil to 20%, in accordance with local conditions and practices.
Executive share award plans a Performance share plan PSP 2008 This plan was introduced in October 2008 to replace the TSR plan described below.
Under the PSP, share awards can take a number of diff erent forms.
No payment is made for awards.
To date, participants have been granted conditional rights to receive shares.
Awards normally vest after a three-year period the performance cycle subject to achievement of two performance tests.
The primary performance test is a comparison of Diageos three-year total shareholder return TSR the percentage growth in Diageos share price assuming all dividends and capital distributions are reinvested with the TSR of a peer group of 16 companies including Diageo.
TSR calculations are converted into a common currency US dollars.
The vesting range is 25% if Diageos TSR produces a median ranking compared with the TSR of the peer group companies, up to 100% if Diageo is ranked fi first or second in the peer group.
The second performance test requires the remuneration committee to consider that there has been an underlying improvement in Diageos three-year fi financial performance, typically measured by improvement in an adjusted EPS measure.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 146 Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements 32.
Employee share compensation continued b Total shareholder return plan TSR 1998 Under the TSR plan, participants were granted a conditional right to receive shares.
No payment was made for awards.
The last award under this plan was made in September 2007.
All conditional rights awarded vest after a three-year period the performance cycle subject to achievement of two performance tests.
The primary performance test is a comparison of Diageos Financial statements 97 Independent auditors three-year TSR with the TSR of a peer group of 16 companies including Diageo.
TSR calculations are converted into a common currency report to the members US dollars.
The second performance test requires the remuneration committee to consider that there has been an underlying improvement of Diageo plc in respect in Diageos three-year fi financial performance, typically measured by improvement in an adjusted EPS measure.
of the consolidated fi financial statements c Discretionary incentive plan DIP, formerly Diageo share incentive plan The fi first awards were granted in the year ended 30 June 2000 to 98 Consolidated a small number of senior executives.
Awards over shares or ADSs are granted under the plan, normally in the income statement form of conditional rights to receive shares or ADSs.
Awards vest over a three to fi five-year period with performance criteria varying by employee.
99 Consolidated statement of recognised income For the three years ended 30 June 2009, the calculation of the fair value of each option and share award used the binomial share option and and expense savings plans and Monte Carlo share award plans option pricing models and the following weighted average assumptions: 100 Consolidated Executive Executive balance sheet share option Savings share award 101 Consolidated cash plans plans plans fl ow statement 2009 102 Accounting policies of the group Weighted average assumptions 106 N otes to the Risk free interest rate 4.2% 4.0% 3.6% consolidated Expected life of the options 60 months 43 months 36 months fi financial statements Expected volatility 14% 15% 149 Independent auditors report to the members Dividend yield 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% of Diageo plc in respect Weighted average share price 987p 906p 902p of the parent company Weighted average fair value of options awards granted in the year 132p 159p 428p fi financial statements 150 Company Number of options awards granted in the year 10.9 million 3.0 million 3.1 million balance sheet Fair value of all options awards granted in the year 14 million 5 million 13 million 151 Accounting policies 2008 of the company 152 Notes to the company Weighted average assumptions fi financial statements Risk free interest rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 155 Principal group Expected life of the options 60 months 36 months 36 months companies Expected volatility 17% 15% Dividend yield 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% Weighted average share price 1072p 1088p 1067p Weighted average fair value of options awards granted in the year 188p 269p 660p Number of options awards granted in the year 7.6 million 2.9 million 2.1 million Fair value of all options awards granted in the year 14 million 8 million 14 million 2007 Weighted average assumptions Risk free interest rate 4.9% 5.1% 5.0% Expected life of the options 60 months 35 months 36 months Expected volatility 18% 13% Dividend yield 4.0% 3.7% 4.0% Weighted average share price 940p 941p 942p Weighted average fair value of options awards granted in the year 144p 200p 841p Number of options awards granted in the year 8.3 million 2.7 million 2.1 million Fair value of all options awards granted in the year 12 million 5 million 18 million The risk free interest rate is based on the UK treasury coupon strips in eff ect at the time of the grant, for the expected life of the option.
The expected life of the options represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.
The group uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination within the valuation model.
Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on the groups shares, historical volatility of the groups shares and other factors.
Option holdings in the following tables are stated as ordinary share equivalents in pence.
Options prices are translated at the following exchange rates: grants at actual exchange rates: exercises and cancellations at average exchange rates: and closing balances at year end exchange rates.
The shares held are accounted for as a deduction in arriving at shareholders equity.
Call options are used to manage some of the groups obligations.
Dividends receivable by the employee share trusts on the shares are waived.
ii Shares used to satisfy the groups obligations under the employee share plans can be newly issued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased on the open market by the employee share trusts.
iii Where shares held by employee share trusts have been allocated to employee share plan participants, they may exercise their voting rights.
Where shares are held by employee share trusts and have not been allocated to participants, the trustee abstains from voting.
