Diageo Annual Report 2009 102 Accounting policies of the group Financial statements Basis of preparation 97 Independent auditors The consolidated fi financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and report to the members adopted for use in the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
References to IFRS of Diageo plc in respect hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
No reconciliation to US GAAP of the consolidated is included in the fi financial statements following the adoption by the US Securities and Exchange Commission of a rule accepting fi financial fi financial statements statements from foreign private issuers prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB without that reconciliation.
98 Consolidated The consolidated fi financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except that biological income statement 99 Consolidated assets and certain fi financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
statement of The preparation of fi financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that aff ect recognised income the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the fi financial statements, and and expense the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could diff er from those estimates.
100 Consolidated The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise balance sheet of judgement, are set out in Critical accounting policies in the Business review section of this Annual Report.
101 Consolidated cash fl ow statement 102 Accounting policies Business combinations of the group The consolidated fi financial statements include the results of the company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share 106 Notes to the of the results of associates and joint ventures.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up to, or from, consolidated the date that control passes.
fi financial statements On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in an associate or joint venture, fair values, refl ecting conditions at the date of acquisition, 149 Independent auditors are attributed to the net assets including identifi able intangible assets acquired.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring report to the members accounting policies into line with those of the group.
of Diageo plc in respect of the parent company fi financial statements Sales 150 Company Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties receivable and rents receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and balance sheet import duties which the group pays as principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added tax.
Sales are 151 Accounting policies recognised depending upon individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or some other specifi ed point when the risk of loss of the company transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty and certain 152 Notes to the company promotional activities and similar items.
fi financial statements 155 Principal group companies Advertising Advertising production costs are charged in the income statement when the advertisement is fi first shown to the public.
Research and development Research expenditure in respect of new drinks products and package design is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Any subsequent development expenditure in the period leading up to product launch that meets the recognition criteria set out in the relevant standard is capitalised.
If capitalised, any intangible asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the expected benefi t. Share-based payments employee benefi ts The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo models and is charged in the income statement over the vesting period.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfi lling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any surplus or defi cit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the group is included as an adjustment to reserves.
Pensions and other post employment benefi ts The groups principal pension funds are defi ned benefi t plans.
In addition the group has defi ned contribution plans, unfunded post employment medical benefi t liabilities and other unfunded defi ned benefi t post employment liabilities.
For defi ned benefi t plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of accruing pension benefi ts promised to employees over the year, plus any fully vested benefi t improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
It also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on the pension plans assets over the year, off set by a charge equal to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
The diff erence between the fair value of the plans assets and the present value of the plans liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any diff erences between the expected return on assets and that actually achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defi ned contribution plans are charged to operating profi t as incurred.
Capitalisation of fi finance costs Finance costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, being an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are added to the cost of that asset.
All other fi finance costs are recognised as charges in the income statement for the period in which they are incurred.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items ar e included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated fi financial statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Accounting policies 103 of the group Foreign currencies Items included in the fi financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated fi financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
The income statements and cash fl ows of overseas entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The adjustment to closing rates is taken to reserves.
Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange diff erences arising on the re-translation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to reserves, as are exchange diff erences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and fi financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are eff ective.
Tax charges and credits arising on such items are also taken to reserves.
Other exchange diff erences are taken to the income statement.
The results of operations in hyper-infl ationary economies are adjusted to refl ect the changes in the purchasing power of the local market currency of the entity.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
If hedged forward, the impact of hedging is recognised, where permitted, under hedge accounting refer to accounting policy for derivative fi financial instruments.
Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets When the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the groups share of the net assets acquired, the diff erence is treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill has not been restated.
Goodwill arising subsequent to 1 July 1998 has been capitalised.
Acquired brands and other intangible assets are recognised when they are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, or are separable from the rest of the business, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Intangible assets that are regarded as having limited useful economic lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill and intangible assets that are regarded as having indefi nite useful economic lives are not amortised.
These assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is an indication that the assets may be impaired.
To ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts, the impairment reviews compare the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the value in use.
Amortisation and any impairment writedowns are charged to other operating expenses in the income statement.
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value over its expected useful life.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives are up to fi five years.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at cost less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives, and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within the following ranges: industrial and other buildings 10 to 50 years: plant and machinery 5 to 25 years: fi xtures and fi ttings 5 to 10 years: and casks and containers 15 to 20 years.
Reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a fi finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Biological assets Grape cultivation by the groups wine business is accounted for as an agricultural activity.
Accordingly, the groups biological assets grape vines and grapes on the vine are carried at fair value which is computed on the basis of a discounted cash fl ow computation.
Agricultural produce harvested grapes is valued at market value on transfer into inventory.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a long term equity interest and over which it has the power to exercise signifi cant infl uence.
The groups interest in the net assets of associates is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet and its interest in their results is included in the income statement below the groups operating profi t. Joint ventures, where there is contractual joint control over the entity, are accounted for by including on a line-by-line basis the attributable share of the results, assets and liabilities.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
Cost is calculated on an actual usage basis for maturing inventories and on a fi first in, fi first out basis for other inventories.
Financial assets Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal amount that is usually the original invoiced amount less provisions made for bad and doubtful receivables.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are provided against when management deems them not to be collectable.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 104 Accounting policies of the group Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignifi cant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less at acquisition, including money market deposits, commercial paper and investments.
Financial statements Available-for-sale fi financial assets Available-for-sale fi financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not 97 Independent auditors classifi ed in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment report to the members within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale fi financial assets are currently primarily represented by cash and cash equivalents of Diageo plc in respect and amounts held in escrow accounts for pension schemes.
of the consolidated fi financial statements Financial liabilities 98 Consolidated Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised income statement 99 Consolidated cost using the eff ective interest rate method.
Any diff erence between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption statement of of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings using the eff ective interest rate method.
recognised income The fair value adjustments for all loans designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge are disclosed separately as a net fi gure.
The fair and expense value adjustment is calculated using a discounted cash fl ow technique applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
This technique uses 100 Consolidated unadjusted market data.
balance sheet 101 Consolidated cash Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
fl ow statement 102 Accounting policies of the group Derivative fi financial instruments 106 Notes to the The group uses derivative fi financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fl uctuations in interest and exchange rates and commodity prices.
consolidated The derivative instruments used by Diageo consist mainly of currency forwards, foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and cross currency fi financial statements interest rate swaps.
149 Independent auditors Derivative fi financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value that is calculated using a discounted cash fl ow technique report to the members applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
This technique uses unadjusted market data.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that of Diageo plc in respect do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are reported in the income statement.
of the parent company fi financial statements The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the group income statement due to changes in 150 Company exchange or interest rates or commodity prices, by matching the impact of the hedged item and the hedging instrument in the income balance sheet statement.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet several conditions with respect to documentation, probability 151 Accounting policies of occurrence, hedge eff ectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At the inception of the transaction, the group documents the relationship of the company between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge 152 Notes to the company transaction.
This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specifi c assets and liabilities or to specifi c fi rm commitments fi financial statements or forecast transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, at hedge inception and on a quarterly basis, as to whether the derivatives 155 Principal group companies that are used in hedging transactions have been, and are likely to continue to be, eff ective in off setting changes in fair value or cash fl ows of hedged items.
Diageo designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either: a a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge : b a hedge of a forecast transaction or the cash fl ow risk from a change in interest rates or exchange rates cash fl ow hedge : or c a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations.
The method of recognising the resulting gains or losses from movements in fair values is dependent on whether the derivative contract is designated to hedge a specifi c risk and qualifi es for hedge accounting.
Derivative fi financial instruments are used to manage the currency and or interest rate risks to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement, along with any changes in the relevant fair value of the underlying hedged asset or liability.
If such a hedge relationship is fide-designated, fair value movements on the derivative continue to be taken to the income statement while any fair value adjustments made to the underlying hedged item to that date are amortised through the income statement over its remaining life.
Derivative fi financial instruments are used to hedge the currency risk of highly probable future foreign currency cash fl ows, as well as the cash fl ow risk from changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
The eff ective part of the changes in fair value of cash fl ow hedges is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense, while any ineff ective part is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the underlying interest or foreign exchange exposure aff ects the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense and included in cumulative translation diff erences.
Liabilities used as hedging instruments in a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense to the extent that they are eff ective, with any ineff ectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments in foreign operations are carried at fair value.
Eff ective fair value movements are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense, with any ineff ectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outfl ow of economic benefi ts will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis, where the eff ect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to refl ect the current best estimate.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Accounting policies 105 of the group Taxation Current tax is based on taxable profi t for the year.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary diff erences which arise as a consequence of diff erent accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made for temporary diff erences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated fi financial statements and their tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax refl ects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
Tax benefi ts are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefi t to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefi t on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
Discontinued operations Disposal groups are classifi ed as discontinued operations where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
