Diageo Annual Report 2009 106 Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements Financial statements 1.
New accounting policies 97 Independent auditors report to the members a Adopted by the group The following accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board of Diageo plc in respect IASB or International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, are eff ective for the fi first time in the current fi financial year and have of the consolidated been adopted by the group with no signifi cant impact on its consolidated results or fi financial position: fi financial statements 98 Consolidated An amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs requires that fi finance costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of income statement a qualifying asset, being an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are added to the 99 Consolidated statement of cost of that asset.
The group has adopted this amendment for capital expenditure incurred on signifi cant projects that commenced after recognised income 1 July 2007.
In the year ended 30 June 2009, the amount of borrowing costs capitalised was 4 million and the interest rates used for projects and expense fi nanced in sterling and other currencies were 5.2% and 6.2%, respectively.
100 Consolidated balance sheet IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The limit on a defi ned benefi t asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction provides additional guidance on 101 Consolidated cash assessing the amount of a defi ned benefi t pension surplus that can be recognised as an asset, and as a consequence the amount of deferred fl ow statement tax on that surplus.
The group has adopted IFRIC 14 as at 1 July 2008, with no material impact on the balance sheet of the group at 30 June 102 Accounting policies of the group 2009 and no impact on the income statement for the year then ended.
No restatement of prior year fi financial information is necessary as the 106 N otes to the amounts involved are immaterial.
consolidated fi financial statements IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements, IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes and IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign 149 Independent auditors operation have also been adopted by the group with no signifi cant impact on its consolidated results or fi financial position.
report to the members of Diageo plc in respect b Not adopted by the group The following standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or IFRIC, have not yet been adopted by the of the parent company group.
The group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards or interpretations would have a material impact on the fi financial statements 150 Company consolidated results or fi financial position of the group unless stated otherwise below: balance sheet 151 Accounting policies IAS 1 Revised Presentation of fi financial statements eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, endorsed by the EU in of the company December 2008.
152 Notes to the company fi financial statements IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate fi financial statements eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, endorsed by the 155 Principal group EU in June 2009. companies Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2008 eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, endorsed by the EU in January 2009 include an amendment to IAS 38 Intangible assets which clarifi es the accounting for advertising expenditure.
The group will be required to charge advertising expenditure to the income statement when it has a right of access to the goods or services acquired, as opposed to charging such costs to the income statement when the advertisement is fi first shown to the public.
It is expected that application of the amendment will result in a minor restatement of prior year information.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRIC 9 Embedded derivatives eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009, not yet endorsed by the EU.
Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible hedged items eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, not yet endorsed by the EU.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment: vesting conditions and cancellations eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, endorsed by the EU in December 2008.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, not yet endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, endorsed by the EU in June 2009 continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some signifi cant changes, particularly in respect of the measurement of contingent payments, the calculation of goodwill and the treatment of transaction costs.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving disclosures about fi financial instruments eff ective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, not yet endorsed by the EU requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements of fi financial instruments by using a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the inputs to valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The amended standard also requires improved disclosures relating to liquidity risk.
