Diageo Annual Report 2009 164 Glossary of terms and US equivalents Additional information In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: for shareholders 157 Legal proceedings Term used in UK annual report US equivalent or defi nition 157 Related party Acquisition accounting Purchase accounting transactions Associates Entities accounted for under the equity method 157 Material contracts American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing ownership of an ADS 157 Share capital American Depositary Share ADS Registered negotiable security, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, representing four Diageo plc 158 Memorandum and 101 ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each articles of association Called up share capital Common stock 161 Exchange controls Capital allowances Tax depreciation 161 Documents on display Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital 162 Taxation Company Diageo plc 164 G lossary of terms and Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities US equivalents Debtors Accounts receivable Employee share schemes Employee stock benefi t plans Employment or staff costs Payroll costs Equivalent units An equivalent unit represents one nine litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
To convert volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine litre cases divide by fi five, ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by 10, and certain pre-mixed products classifi ed as ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by fi five.
Euro, Euro currency Exceptional items Items that, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence Excise duty Tax charged by a sovereign territory on the production, manufacture, sale or distribution of selected goods including imported goods within that territory.
It is generally based on the quantity or alcohol content of goods, rather than their value, and is typically applied to alcohol products and fuels.
Finance lease Capital lease Financial year Fiscal year Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Free cash fl ow Net cash fl ow from operating activities, and net purchase and disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles Group and Diageo Diageo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Impact Databank An international data resource for the beverage alcohol industry that is independent from industry participants Merger accounting Pooling of interests Net asset value Book value Net sales Sales after deducting excise duties Noon buying rate Buying rate at noon in New York City for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certifi ed for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Operating profi t Net operating income Organic movement At level foreign exchange rates and after adjusting for exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals for continuing operations Own shares Treasury stock Pound sterling, sterling, pence, p UK currency Profi t Earnings Profi t and loss account Statement of income accumulated earnings Profi t for the year Net income Provisions Accruals for losses contingencies Recognised income and expense Comprehensive income Redundancy charges Early release scheme expenses Reserves Accumulated earnings, other comprehensive income and additional paid in capital RPI UK retail prices index Scrip dividend Stock dividend SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission Share premium Additional paid in capital or paid in surplus Shareholders funds Shareholders equity Shares Common stock Shares and ordinary shares Diageo plcs ordinary shares Shares in issue Shares issued and outstanding Trade and other payables Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Trade and other receivables Accounts receivable US dollar, US$, $, US currency Where can I fi nd out more information?
To meet the needs of all our stakeholders, Diageo produces other publications in addition to this printed annual report.
You can download all of these, fi nd the online Annual Report and also view our online Annual Review at To visit our online 2009 diageoreports.
com Annual annual review please go to www.
com report Annual review Annual report online online Another great mix Corporate Summary To visit our online 2009 citizenship annual report please go to review report www.
com To download our summary review please go to www.
co. uk Photography of cover and pages 18, 32, To download our corporate 70 and 96 by Tim Bishop and Chris Moyse.
citizenship report please go to www.
com Printed by CTD on behalf of RR Donnelly on Munken Polar, an FSC Mixed Sources product group from well managed forests and other controlled sources.
It was produced at a mill that is certifi ed to the ISO14001 environmental management standard and to the EMAS environmental management standard No S-000248.
Diageo plc All rights reserved.
8 Henrietta Place All brands mentioned London in this Annual Report W1G 0NB are trademarks and are registered and or United Kingdom otherwise protected in accordance with Tel applicable law.
com Registered in England No.
