Group Accounts 41 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation European law requires that the Groups consolidated financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 are prepared in accordance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of pensions, and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
This will also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statementsand the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Exceptional items Exceptional items, by their nature, are not indicative of the underlying operating performance of the Group.
Exceptional items are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
Pre-arranged funeral plan trusts The three prearranged funeral plan trusts were not consolidated during the period as they were not controlled by the Group.
Specifically, Article 60 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 requires a majority of the managing trustees to be independent of the Group.
Furthermore, the Group did not direct their financial and operating policies, nor did it have substantially all of the risks and rewards of their ownership.
Acquisition or disposal of subsidiary undertakings Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the effective date of control using the acquisition method of accounting.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Revenue Revenue from funeral operations comprises the amount recoverable from customers for the provision of funerals, income from crematoria and other services, to the extent that those services have been performed or the goods supplied.
Income from memorial sales is recognised at the point of sale, to the extent that the goods have been supplied.
Costs of maintaining memorials are recognised as incurred.
The accounting policies for recognising turnover for prearranged funeral plans are stated below.
The Group pays certain disbursements such as crematoria fees, burial plots, ministers fees and doctors fees on behalf of its clients.
These amounts are recovered as part of the invoicing process.
However, these amounts are not included within net revenues as they are simply passed on to the customer at cost.
The Group views the United Kingdom as one geographical segment, given each local business exhibits similar long term characteristics.
All amounts are exclusive of VAT.
Group Accounts 42 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Pre-arranged funeral plans Trust plans The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, monies received from selling funeral plans being held and controlled by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts the Trusts.
The responsibility for the ultimate performance of funerals is allocated to funeral directors, who are selected by the beneficiary of the plan and some of whom are not owned by the Group.
The Group receives monies from the Trusts in respect of the following transactions: A marketing and administration fee in respect of each plan sold.
The marketing element is only refundable in the event that the plan is subsequently cancelled.
A provision is made for cancellations based on historical experiences, where material, to cover the estimated marketing element refundable to the Trusts.
Marketing and administration fees are included in Group revenue when the related plan is sold less the provision for refunds arising on cancellations: and Further contributions are also received from the Trusts in return for the provision of general ongoing administrative services supplied to the Trusts.
These contributions are included in Group revenue for the period to which they relate.
All costs in respect of the marketing and administration of the prearranged funeral plans are expensed in the Group income statement as incurred.
From time to time, the Group receives monies from certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities in respect of current members Recoveries.
All Recoveries are recognised as other operating income in the period in which the trustees approve their payment.
The Group makes payments on behalf of the Trusts relating to the ongoing overheads of the Trusts, refunds to members of the Trusts in event of cancellation, and the payments made to funeral directors when the funeral is ultimately performed.
All such payments are reimbursed in full by the Trusts on demand, in accordance with the terms of the relevant Trusts deed.
Neither the sales value of plans nor the costs of providing funerals are recognised in the financial statements of the Group when a prearranged funeral plan is sold.
Each Dignity marketing company contractually guarantees with the customer of a prearranged funeral plan that i if the customer chooses to cancel their selected funeral plan, a full refund will be made to the customer of all monies paid in respect thereof less in certain cases an administration fee payable to the relevant Dignity marketing company : ii the funeral directors services as selected by the customer will be provided regardless of price rises in the future: and iii for certain plans sold, specific disbursements will be provided regardless of price rises in the future.
Insurance plans Previously marketed propositions The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by an insurance company in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
Marketing of these policies has now ceased.
In the event of death of the policyholder, the Group makes an agreed payment to the nominatedfuneral director and a debtor is recognised.
At this time a commission fee is recognised as turnover.
All monies are reclaimed in full from the life insurance company.
Actively marketed propositions The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
A commission is paid when the policy is charged to the Group.
As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a debtor and expensed when the funeral is performed.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled sharebased payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they considerto be the most appropriate to value each class of award, which include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Group Accounts 43 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straightline basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period increased by the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares primarily share options.
Underlying Earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing the underlying profit after tax by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration for subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is capitalised and stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The business and subsidiaries acquired are generally combined with existing operations in the year of acquisition, or the year thereafter and are therefore only considered to be separate cashgenerating units during this time.
Intangible assets trade names Intangible trade names are recognised as assets at the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire them and are carried at historical cost less provisions for amortisation and impairment.
When acquired as part of a business combination the fair value is calculated by reference to the estimated incremental cash flows expected to arise by virtue of the trade name being wellestablished.
Amortisation is provided from the date of acquisition so as to writeoff the asset on a straightline basis over the term of its useful life.
Where there are indicators that a trade name has an indefinite life then these assets are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The factors that indicate an indefinite life of trade names acquired include the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a wellestablished market with inelastic demand, the conservative nature of the UK funeral industry that acts as a barrier to entry for new trade names, and the Groups track record for actively monitoring and relocating trade names to combat shifting demographics.
In addition, when allocating a useful life to acquired trade names, the following matters are considered: The strength of the trade name in its local environment which is assessed by reference to relative market share and anticipated profitability: The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a trade names life such as competition and shifting demographics and the Groups ability to combat these: The length of time, prior to acquisition, for which trade has been conducted under the name acquired: and The likely support the Group will give to the name in its local environment through marketing and promotion, maintaining community awareness etc.
The useful lives of all capitalised trade names are considered to be indefinite and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets non-compete contracts Noncompete contracts arising from business combinations are capitalised at the fair value, which is calculated as the present value of any consideration paid discounted at the Groups cost of capital.
All costs are amortised over the term of the relevant agreement on a straightline basis.
Intangible assets software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems including websites is recognised if and only if the costs are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products, controlled by the Group and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
All other costs incurred in research or development are expensed as incurred.
Capitalised costs will include, where appropriate, directly attributable payroll costs and a portion of direct overheads.
Costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to eight years.
Group Accounts 44 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets use of third party brand On 8 January 2007, the Group acquired the remaining 25 per cent voting share capital of Advance Planning Limited for consideration of 2.0 million.
As part of this arrangement, the Group obtained a 10year marketing commitment from Age Concern Enterprises Limited, the previous minority shareholder, giving rights to market Funeral Plans under the Age Concern brand for the next ten years.
During the period, Age Concern England merged with Help the Aged to form a new charity, Age UK.
Following the merger, the Group has extended the marketing arrangements to cover Age UK as a whole until 2019.
The value of this right has been recognised as a separate intangible asset.
This asset is being amortised over twenty years on a straightline basis, recognising that each years additional marketing activity generates incremental revenues and profits to the Group for at least the following twenty years.
Investment property Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Costs include, where appropriate, cost of acquiring the property and costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present condition.
Depreciation is charged over the expected useful lives using the straightline method.
Valuations are performed internally on an annual basis.
An independent external valuation will be obtained every five years.
Property, plant and equipment Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes, where appropriate, directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present location and condition.
Depreciation is charged excluding freehold land and assets in the course of construction so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual value, over their expected useful livesusing the straightline method.
The bases and annual depreciation rates in use for the various classes of assets are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% 10% Short leasehold buildings Over term of lease Motor vehicles 11% 20% Computers 20% Other plant and equipment 5% 33% Fixtures and fittings 15% Freehold land is not depreciated on the basis that land has an unlimited life.
Where the historical cost of land and buildings cannot be split, the Directors have estimated that the historical cost attributable to land is one third of the original cost of acquiring the land and buildings.
This estimate is regularly reviewed.
Major renovations of the Groups trading premises and crematory relinings are depreciated over the remaining life of the related asset or to the estimated date of the next major renovation or cremator relining, whichever is sooner.
Asset lives and residual values for each class of asset are reviewed annually.
Repairs and renewals All repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement unless they represent an enhancement to the original asset.
Property, plant and equipment held under leases When assets are financed by leasing agreements, where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding lease obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged to the income statement.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life e. g. goodwill are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Group Accounts 45 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 Wher Accounti e an asset ng policies does not contin generued ate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill this is considered at a business segment level as that is the level at which the return on assets acquired is monitored.
For other intangibles principally trade names this is considered at a regional level for each business segment as this is the level where cash inflows are largely independent.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future discounted cash flows of the cashgenerating unit are estimated, based on latest management expectations for the following year and an annual growth rate in subsequent years.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular segment and compared to the carrying value of the relevant asset.
Any impairment in the value of an asset below its carrying value is charged to the income statement within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Inventories Inventories, which comprise funeral supplies and monumental masonry, are stated at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Cost includes all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Fair value less costs to sell is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred in completion and sale.
Taxation The tax charge for the period includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the period and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its associated tax basis or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its associated tax basis.
Deferred tax is provided for any differences that exist between the tax base and accounting base of intangibles arising from a business combination that does not involve the acquisition of a subsidiary.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a nondiscounted basis.
Pensions The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short term asset or liability.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing the benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets less the interest arising on the pension liabilities is presented within net finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension plan.
The retirement benefit net asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of any relevant scheme assets net of the present value ofthe defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
The discount rate applied in arriving at the present value represents yields on high quality corporate bonds in a similar economic environment with lives similar to the maturity of the pension liabilities.
The rate of return is determined by identifying an appropriate rate of return for each class of asset held in conjunction with the Groups professional advisor.
Group Accounts 46 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company or the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions other than deferred tax are discounted where the present value of the provision is materially different to the undiscounted value.
The unwinding of discounts is included within net interest payable and similar charges.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when paid.
Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions recognised in the income statement are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate on the date the transaction took place.
Financial instruments Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of transaction costs.
The transaction costs and interest payable on debt finance are charged to the income statement, as finance costs, on a constantyield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where it is more likely than not that the lender will require earlier repayment using the effective interest method.
Early termination costs on borrowings Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings are writtenoff to the income statement as incurred.
Interest rate swaps The Group currently uses several types of financial instruments as part of an overall interest rate risk management strategy.
It does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes.
Interest rate risk associated with net debt is managed by using a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings and financial liabilities.
The cash flows from, and losses arising on terminations of, these contracts are recognised as cash flows from operating activities.
See note 16 d for further information.
Trade receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is established based on historical experience.
When a trade receivable is not collectable it is written off against the allowance account.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
Critical accounting estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are in the areas of assessing the recoverability of receivables, postretirement benefits, the recognition and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired.
Within each division, assessment is made of the recoverability of trade receivables based on a range of factors including the age of the receivable and the type of services provided.
The provision is assessed monthly against actual experience of irrecoverable accounts and adjusted if appropriate.
Group Accounts 47 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme that is accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial statements.
These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates.
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would affect the balance sheetand income statement.
The Group considers that the most significant assumptions are the discount rate and the inflation rate.
See note 28 for further details.
Goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1 Intangible assets goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on valueinuse calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary from those calculated.
See note 9 for further details.
Other intangible assets The decision process to ascertain whether trade names will have an indefinite life are detailed in note 1 Intangible assets trade names.
These assets with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on valueinuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Sharebased payment, the trusts assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 IFRS 2 amendment, Sharebased payment.
It deals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
It clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features of a sharebased payment are not vesting conditions.
These features need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing similar services: they would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation there of subsequent to grant date.
All cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
This has been implemented in the period and has had no material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments disclosures.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
This has been implemented in the period.
See note 21 for further details.
This standard introduced new rules on the disclosure of operating results by business segment.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
This has not led to a change in reporting segments from prior year.
See note 3 for further details.
IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements.
The revised standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, nonowner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring nonowner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
The Group has elected to present two statements, an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The consolidated financial statements has been prepared under these revised disclosure requirements.
The amendment to this standard requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.
This has had no material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: disclosures on the reclassification of financial assets.
This amendment allows the reclassification of certain financial assets previously classified as held for trading or available for sale to another category under limited circumstances.
Various disclosures are required where a reclassification has been made.
This has not had an impact on the Group.
Group Accounts 48 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 25 December 2009 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted: IFRS 2 amendments, Group cashsettled sharebased payment transaction effective from 1 January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisitionrelated costs should be expensed.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 5 amendment, Noncurrent assets heldforsale and discontinued operations.
The amendment clarifies that all of a subsidiarys assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if a partial disposal sale plan results in loss of control.
The Group will apply the IFRS 5 amendment prospectively to all partial disposals of subsidiaries from 1 January 2010.
It is not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in April 2009.
The amendment provides clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or noncurrent.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as noncurrent provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, effective from 1 July 2009.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with noncontrolling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The group will apply IAS 27 revised prospectively to transactions with noncontrolling interests from 1 January 2010.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in April 2009 and the Group and Company will apply IAS 38 amendment from the date IFRS 3 revised is adopted.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and it permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of noncash assets to owners effective on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation was published in November 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes noncash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
The Group will apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January 2010.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
2Financial risk management The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds and Secured Notes, with other bank borrowings available if required.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cash generative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Group Accounts 49 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2 Financial risk management continued Market risk Currency risk All the Groups financial assets and liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
The Group purchases minimal amounts from overseas.
Accordingly, exposure to currency fluctuations are not significant and therefore not actively managed.
Interest rate risk and other price risk The Groups main borrowings consist of Class A and B Secured Notes, which are at fixed interest rates, resulting in a predetermined repayment profile.
The fair value of these financial instruments is based on underlying gilt prices and yield spreads based on the markets current view of the risk profile of the Secured Notes.
Consequently, the fair value of these instruments will fluctuate.
Fair values are not relevant to the Group unless it was to change its funding strategy and repay the Secured Notes early.
The Group also has a 10 million crematoria acquisition facility the Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
7.4 million carries interest at 5.59 per cent per annum.
The remaining 2.6 million carries interest at a rate relative to three month LIBOR, with such rate being capped at 5.59 per cent.
Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases in LIBOR on this facility.
The Crematoria Acquisition Facility is fully drawn and will be repayable in one payment in November 2013.
The Group has significant cash balances that are held by institutions rated at least A1 by Standard and Poors.
These balancesearn interest by reference to the Bank of England base rate.
If base rates reduced by one per cent at the beginning of 2009 then the Group would receive 0.1 million less interest income on an annualised basis for each 10 million held.
None of the Groups other financial liabilities or financial assets carry any significant interest rate risk.
Credit risk Trade receivables are the main source of credit risk to the Group.
However, this risk is minimised as much as possible through wellestablished credit control procedures.
Quantitative disclosures regarding the aging of these receivables are included in note 21 c. Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash reserves, committed undrawn borrowing facilities and regular monitoring and forecasting of cash balances.
In addition, the Group is required under the terms of its secured borrowings to maintain a precisely defined EBITDA to total debt service ratio of at least 1.5 times.
This ratio was determined when raising the debt as being sufficient to ensure all borrowings could be repaid.
This covenant test has been satisfied on each quarterly testing date in the period.
At 25 December 2009 the actual ratio was 2.60 times 2008: 2.55 times.
Capital risk management The Groups objective under managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, repay holders of Class A and B Secured Notes and benefit other shareholders.
It also aims to reduce its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or issue further Class A and B Secured Notes.
During the period, the Group achieved its covenants under the terms of the Groups secured borrowings see Liquidity risk above.
Group Accounts 50 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 3 Revenue and segmental analysis The Group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating segments from 1 January 2009.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the four Executive Directors.
These Directors review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
No changes to the reporting segments previously disclosed have been implemented as the Group previously reported based on how it manages the business.
The Group has three reporting segments, funeral services, crematoria and prearranged funeral plans.
The Group also reports central overheads, which comprise unallocated central expenses.
Funeral services represent the sale of funerals and memorials at the time of need.
Crematoria represent the performance of cremations at the time of need, together with the sale of memorials at the time of need and in advance.
Prearranged funeral plans represent the revenue from the sale of funerals in advance to customers wishing to make their own funeral arrangements, and the marketing and administration costs associated with making such sales.
Substantially all Group revenue is derived from, and substantially all of the Groups net assets are located in, the United Kingdom and Channel Islands.
Overseas transactions are not material.
Underlying profit comprises profit before profit on sale of fixed assets and any exceptional items.
Underlying operating profit is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit for profit on sale of fixed assets provides a better indication of the Groups performance.
The revenue and operating profit which includes Recoveries within prearranged funeral plans of 1.5 million in both periods, by segment, was as follows: Underlying operating profit before Underlying depreciation and Depreciation and operating Profit on sale of Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation profit loss fixed assets profit loss 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 m m m m m m Funeral services 138.5 53.4 6.1 47.3 1.1 48.4 Crematoria 34.4 19.4 1.8 17.6 17.6 Prearranged funeral plans 11.8 3.5 3.5 3.5 Central overheads 11.4 0.6 12.0 12.0 Group 184.7 64.9 8.5 56.4 1.1 57.5 Finance costs 21.6 21.6 Finance income 1.6 1.6 Profit before tax 36.4 1.1 37.5 Taxation 10.6 0.3 10.9 Underlying earnings for the period 25.8 Total other items 0.8 Profit after taxation 26.6 Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders pence Basic and diluted 40.5p 41.8p Group Accounts 51 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 3 3 R Re ev venu enue e and and se segmental gmental anal analysis ysis continued continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Pre-arranged services Crematoria funeral plans Head office Group As at 25 December 2009 m m m m m Segment assets 236.1 84.1 13.7 2.2 336.1 Unallocated assets: Financial assets loans and receivables 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 45.8 Total assets 382.0 Segment liabilities 21.5 3.4 2.8 4.5 32.2 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 274.3 Accrued interest 9.7 Corporation tax 4.3 Deferred tax 26.0 Total liabilities 346.5 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 12.7 18.0 0.5 31.2 Depreciation note 10 6.1 1.8 0.4 8.3 Amortisation note 9 0.2 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 1.1 1.1 Other non cash expenses note 23 1.0 1.0 Profit on sale of fixed assets 1.1 1.1 The revenue and operating profit, by segment, was as follows: Underlying operating Profit on sale of profit before Underlying fixed assets and depreciation and Depreciation and operating exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation profit loss tax credit profit loss 52 week period ended 26 December 2008 m m m m m m Funeral services 137.2 52.4 6.1 46.3 1.1 47.4 Crematoria 29.2 16.2 1.6 14.6 14.6 Prearranged funeral plans 9.4 2.5 2.5 2.5 Central overheads 10.9 0.4 11.3 11.3 Group 175.8 60.2 8.1 52.1 1.1 53.2 Finance costs 21.6 21.6 Finance income 3.8 3.8 Profit before tax 34.3 1.1 35.4 Taxation continuing activities 10.1 0.3 10.4 Taxation exceptional 0.4 0.4 Taxation 10.1 0.7 10.8 Underlying earnings for the period 24.2 Total other items 0.4 Profit after taxation 24.6 Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders pence Basic and diluted 38.2p 38.8p Group Accounts 52 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Pre-arranged services Crematoria funeral plans Head office Group As at 26 December 2008 m m m m m Segment assets 226.9 74.9 13.4 2.7 317.9 Unallocated assets: Financial assets loans and receivables 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 46.7 Total assets 364.7 Segment liabilities 21.7 2.8 2.3 5.0 31.8 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 276.4 Accrued interest 9.8 Corporation tax 3.9 Deferred tax 24.4 Total liabilities 346.3 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 27.6 14.6 0.1 0.6 42.9 Depreciation note 10 6.1 1.6 0.2 7.9 Amortisation note 9 0.2 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 1.4 0.6 2.0 Other non cash expenses note 23 0.8 0.8 Profit on sale of fixed assets 1.1 1.1 4 Net finance costs 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Finance costs Class A and B Secured Notes issued April 2003 14.0 14.2 Class A and B Secured Notes issued February 2006 5.1 5.2 Amortisation of issue costs issued April 2003 1.0 1.1 Amortisation of issue costs issued February 2006 0.3 0.2 Crematoria acquisition facility 0.4 Other loans 0.1 0.2 Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of discounts 0.6 0.6 Finance costs 21.6 21.6 Finance income Bank deposits 0.5 2.3 Release of premium on Secured Notes issued February 2006 0.8 0.8 Net finance income on retirement benefit obligations note 28 0.3 0.7 Finance income 1.6 3.8 Net finance costs 20.0 17.8 Group Accounts 53 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 Profit before tax 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Analysis by nature m m The following items have been included in arriving at profit before tax: Staff costs note 27 62.9 60.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 12.6 13.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 10 8.3 7.9 Amortisation of intangible assets included in administrative expenses note 9 0.2 0.2 Operating lease rentals property 5.8 5.2 Recoveries included within other operating income 1.5 1.5 Trade receivables impairment included in administrative expenses note 21 c 1.1 2.0 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 Tax services 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 6 Taxation 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Analysis of charge in the period m m Current tax current period 10.3 8.7 Adjustments for prior period 0.3 0.3 10.0 8.4 Deferred tax current period 0.7 1.8 Adjustments for prior period 0.2 0.2 Exceptional adjustment for change in industrial building allowances 0.4 0.9 2.4 Taxation 10.9 10.8 All tax relates to continuing operations.
52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Tax on items charged to equity m m Deferred tax credit charge on actuarial losses gains on retirement benefit obligations 0.5 1.6 Deferred tax charge on employee share options 0.3 Corporation tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.8 Corporation tax relief relating to maturity of option schemes 0.2 0.4 1.5 1.5 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Total tax charge m m Total current tax charge 9.0 8.0 Total deferred tax charge 0.4 4.3 Group Accounts 54 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 6 Taxation continued The taxation charge in the period is higher 2008: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Profit before taxation 37.5 35.4 Profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 28.5% 10.5 10.1 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior period 0.1 0.1 Exceptional adjustment for change in industrial building allowances 0.4 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.4 Total taxation 10.9 10.8 Under IFRS the tax rate is higher 2008: higher than the standard UK tax rate of 28 per cent due to combination of the impact of disallowable trading expenses and expenditure on the Groups premises that does not attract any deductions for tax purposes.
The Groups effective tax rate in the period is 29 per cent 2008: 29.5 per cent excluding the nonrecurring adjustment.
The Group anticipates its effective tax rate will remain at 29 per cent in the 2010 financial period andbeyond, assuming no change in legislation.
52 week period 52 week period 7 Dividends ended ended 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Final dividend paid: 7.34p per Ordinary Share 2008: 6.67p 4.7 4.2 Interim dividend paid: 4.03p per Ordinary Share 2008: 3.66p 2.5 2.3 Total dividends recognised in the period 7.2 6.5 Interim dividend represents the interim dividend that was approved and paid in the period out of earnings generated in the same period.
The final dividend represents the final dividend that was approved and paid in the period relating to the earnings generated in the previous period.
A final dividend of 8.07 pence per share, in respect of 2009, has been proposed by the Board.
This will be paid on 25 June 2010 provided approval is gained from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2010 and will be paid to shareholders on the register at close of business on 28 May 2010.
8 Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share has been based on the profit for the relevant period.
For diluted earnings per Ordinary Share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares being those share options granted to employees under the Groups SAYE Scheme and the contingently issueable shares under the Groups LTIP Schemes.
At the balance sheet date, the performance criteria for the vesting of the awards under the LTIP Schemes had not been met and these contingently issueable shares have been excluded from the diluted EPS calculations.
The Board believes that profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items, profit on sale of fixed assets and after taxation is a useful indication of the Groups performance, as it excludes significant nonrecurring items.
This reporting measure is defined as Underlying profit after taxation.
Accordingly, the Board believes that earnings per share calculated by reference to this underlying profit after taxation is also a useful indicator of financial performance.
Group Accounts 55 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 8 8 Ear Earnings nings per per shar share e contin continued ued Reconciliations of the earnings and the weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Weighted average number of Per share Earnings shares amount m millions pence 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 Profit attributable to shareholders Basic and diluted EPS 26.6 63.7 41.8 Deduct: Profit on sale of fixed assets net of taxation 0.8 Underlying profit after taxation Basic EPS 25.8 63.7 40.5 52 week period ended 26 December 2008 Profit attributable to shareholders Basic and diluted EPS 24.6 63.4 38.8 Deduct: Exceptional items and profit on sale of fixed assets net of taxation 0.4 Underlying profit after taxation Basic EPS 24.2 63.4 38.2 In 2009 and 2008, the potential issue of new shares pursuant to the Groups share option plans would have no impact on the earnings per share.
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets Use of third Trade party brand Non-compete names name Software agreements Sub-total Goodwill Total m m m m m m m Cost At 28 December 2007 21.5 3.2 3.9 0.2 28.8 119.6 148.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 8.8 8.8 10.2 19.0 At 26 December 2008 30.3 3.2 3.9 0.2 37.6 129.8 167.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses note 26 a 2.8 2.8 9.6 12.4 At 25 December 2009 33.1 3.2 3.9 0.2 40.4 139.4 179.8 Accumulated amortisation At 28 December 2007 0.2 3.8 0.1 4.1 4.1 Amortisation charge 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 26 December 2008 0.4 3.8 0.1 4.3 4.3 Amortisation charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 At 25 December 2009 0.5 3.8 0.2 4.5 4.5 Net book amount at 25 December 2009 33.1 2.7 0.1 35.9 139.4 175.3 Net book amount at 26 December 2008 30.3 2.8 0.1 0.1 33.3 129.8 163.1 Group Accounts 56 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets As described in note 1, goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing: i Goodwill is tested at a business segment level.
ii Other intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs on a regional basis.
The segmental allocation is shown below: Amortisation of 0.2 million 2008: 0.2 million is included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Intangible assets Goodwill Total At 25 December 2009 m m m Funeral services 33.1 94.4 127.5 Crematoria 40.3 40.3 Prearranged funeral plans 2.7 4.7 7.4 Head office 0.1 0.1 35.9 139.4 175.3 At 26 December 2008 Funeral services 30.3 91.8 122.1 Crematoria 33.3 33.3 Prearranged funeral plans 2.9 4.7 7.6 Head office 0.1 0.1 33.3 129.8 163.1 The recoverable amount of a CGU is based on a valueinuse calculation.
However, the assets allocated to head office are tested for impairment by reference to the Group as a whole.
The valueinuse calculations use cash flow projections based on the latest management expectations.
Key assumptions used to produce the annual budget are the estimated UK death rates based on historical death rates supplied by ONS, anticipated market share based on actual experience and anticipated price increases.
Cash flows beyond the initial 12 month period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.25 per cent 2008: 2.25 per cent.
The cash flows are discounted at a pretax rate of 9.2 per cent 2008: 9.2 per cent.
This rate is used to analyse each CGU because they all have similar risk profiles.
Given the stability and predictability of the industry, cash flows for the following 20 years have been taken into account.
Based on these calculations, the discount rate would have to increase to at least 22 per cent, or the growth rate would have to reduce to at least minus 11 per cent to result in any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets.
On the basis of the above, the review indicated that no impairment arose in any segment 2008: nil.
Included within plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings net book value is 4.1 million 2008: 2.7 million relating to assets held in the course of construction.
Investment properties have been reclassified to property, plant and equipment and prepayments see note 11 at fair value upon the acquisition of Mercia Crematoria Limited, which previously rented and operated these facilities.
Details of any securities over assets are disclosed in note 30.
Group Accounts 58 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 10 Property, plant and equipment continued Assets held under finance leases, which relate solely to leasehold land and buildings, have the following net book amount: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Cost 1.0 1.0 Accumulated depreciation 0.3 0.3 Net book amount 0.7 0.7 The Group had capital expenditure authorised by the Board and contracted for at the balance sheet date of 2.8 million 2008: 1.0 million.
11 Non-current financial and other assets 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Note m m Prepayments a 8.2 3.4 Deferred commissions b 1.1 0.9 Other receivables 0.1 0.2 9.4 4.5 a Prepayments This balance represents the amounts paid to acquire the long leasehold interest in land at certain of the Groups properties.
Management consider that leases greater than fifty years at inception are long leases.
The balance is expensed on a straightline basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The leases expire at various times over the next thirty to nine hundred years.
b Deferred commissions The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies.
12 Investments A list of the trading entities included within the financial information are included in note C2 to the Companys financial statements.
13 Inventories 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Materials 0.9 0.8 Finished goods 3.2 3.1 4.1 3.9 The cost of inventories recognised within cost of sales amounted to 12.6 million 2008: 13.0 million.
There were no inventory writedowns in either period.
Group Accounts 59 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 14 Trade and other receivables 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Trade receivables 17.1 18.3 Less: provision for impairment note 21 c 3.6 3.3 Net trade receivables 13.5 15.0 Receivables due from related parties note 31 3.6 3.3 Prepayments and accrued income 2.5 2.3 Other receivables 1.9 1.8 21.5 22.4 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for doubtful recoverables.
For further details of the trade receivables past due and impaired refer to note 21 c. Due to the short term nature of these balances, the carrying value is considered to be their fair value.
15 Cash and cash equivalents 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Note m m Operating cash as reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows as cash and cash equivalents 31.8 32.8 Recoveries: prearranged funeral plans a 1.5 1.5 Amounts set aside for debt service payments b 12.5 12.4 Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the balance sheet 45.8 46.7 a Recoveries may not be used for one year following receipt and therefore do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements.
Movements in these amounts are shown as Transfers to restricted bank accounts in Investing activities.
b This amount was transferred to restricted bank accounts which could only be used for the payment of the interest and principal on the Secured Notes, the repayment of liabilities due on the Groups interest rate swaps see note 16 d and commitment fees due on its undrawn borrowing facilities see note 21 d and for no other purpose.
This amount does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements.
This amount was used to pay these respective parties on 31 December 2009.
9.9 million 2008: 10.0 million is shown within the cash flow statement as Payments to restricted bank accounts for finance costs.
2.6 million 2008: 2.4 million is shown within Financing activities as Payments to restricted bank accounts for repayment of borrowings.
16 Financial liabilities 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Current Note m m Class A Secured Notes issued April 2003 a 4.6 4.2 Class A Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 2.1 1.9 Premium on Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 0.8 0.8 Other current financial liabilities d 1.0 1.1 f 8.5 8.0 Non-current Class A and B Secured Notes issued April 2003 a 175.1 178.0 Class A and B Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 65.7 67.0 Premium on Secured Notes issued February 2006 b 10.3 11.1 Finance lease obligations c 0.8 0.8 Other noncurrent financial liabilities d 4.9 5.1 Crematoria acquisition facility e 9.8 7.2 266.6 269.2 Group Accounts 60 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 16 Financial liabilities continued a Class A and B Secured Notes issued April 2003 On 11 April 2003, Dignity Finance PLC issued 110,000,000 Class A Secured Notes the A notes and 100,000,000 Class B Secured Notes the B notes.
The A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The A notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2023.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the A notes totalled 9.8 million.
The B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The B notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the B notes totalled 8.9 million.
The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table above.
Both the A notes and the B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets of Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 25 December 2009, 91.6 million 2008: 95.1 million of the principal of the A notes and 100.0 million 2008: 100.0 million of the principal of the B notes was outstanding.
At 25 December 2009, 5.6 million 2008: 6.2 million and 6.3 million 2008: 6.7 million of the transaction costs in respect of the A notes and the B notes respectively remain unamortised.
b Class A and B Secured Notes issued February 2006 On 21 February 2006, Dignity Finance PLC issued 45,550,000 Class A Secured Notes the Further A notes and 32,500,000 Class B Secured Notes the Further B notes.
The Further A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The Further A notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2023.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Further A notes totalled 1.9 million.
The Further B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears.
The Further B notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030.
The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Further B notes totalled 1.8 million.
The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table on page 59.
Both the Further A notes and the Further B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets of Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 25 December 2009, 38.0 million 2008: 39.4 million of the principal of the Further A notes and 32.5 million 2008: 32.5 million of the principal of the Further B notes was outstanding.
At 25 December 2009, 1.2 million 2008: 1.5 million and 1.5 million 2008: 1.5 million of the transaction costs in respect of the Further A notes and the Further B notes respectively remain unamortised.
The Further A notes and Further B notes were issued at a premium of 3.6 million and 10.8 million respectively, which is being released in proportion to the interest cost in the notes.
At the balance sheet date 2.4 million 2008: 2.7 million and 8.7 million 2008: 9.2 million respectively remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the class A and B Secured Notes see note 30 a. c Obligations under finance leases 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase payable: Within one year Between one and two years Between two and five years 0.2 0.2 After five years 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 The finance leases and hire purchase liabilities are secured on the related assets.
d Other financial liabilities On 20 December 2002, Dignity 2002 Limited entered into contracts to swap the floating rate interest on a bank loan into fixed rate.
Contractually, these swaps were not effective until 30 April 2003.
On 11 April 2003, as described in note 16 a, the Group issued Secured Notes at a fixed rate of interest.
These notes replaced the bank loan.
Consequently, the swaps were no longer required as the Group had no interest rate risk on the Secured Notes.
As a result, the Group entered into further contracts on 11 April 2003 to swap fixed rate interest into floating in order to offset the original swaps and eliminate any interest rate risk in this regard.
Group Accounts 61 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 16 16 Financial Financial liabilitie liabilities s contin continued ued As a result of interest rate movements between these two dates, the combined effect of all the contracts was that the Group makes fixed and determinable biannual payments on a notional principal amount.
These swap agreements were entered into under one ISDA master agreement.
This master agreement forces the swaps to be viewed and settled on a net basis only: a position that cannot be altered without the written consent of both parties.
Accordingly, the overall transaction represents a financial liability.
The fair value represents the discounted net present value of future cash flows.
Further, as these contracts related to the raising of the Secured Notes, the liability has been accounted for as a transaction cost of the Class A and B Secured Notes and is being amortised in accordance with IAS 39. e Crematoria acquisition facility The Group also has a 10 million crematoria acquisition facility the Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
The transaction costs incurred on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility were 0.2 million 2008: 0.2 million.
The principal outstanding on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table above.
At 25 December 2009, 10.0 million 2008: 7.4 million of the principal was outstanding.
At 25 December 2009, 0.2million 2008: 0.2 million of the transaction costs remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the Crematoria Acquisition Facility see note 30 b. f Current financial liabilities The current financial liabilities represent the amounts falling due within one year of the Groups accounting reference date, 31 December.
17 Trade and other payables 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 Current m m Trade payables 5.0 6.8 Tax and social security 1.3 1.2 Other current liabilities 1.3 0.8 Accruals and deferred income 26.6 25.6 34.2 34.4 Non-current Deferred income 1.2 1.3 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 0.3 0.4 Long service awards 1.1 1.0 Other noncurrent liabilities 0.5 0.1 3.1 2.8 18 Obligations under finance leases and operating leases For minimum lease payments obligations under finance leases refer to note 21 d ii.
25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m The minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Not later than one year 5.7 5.3 Later than one year but not more than five years 16.5 15.6 More than five years 29.8 29.7 52.0 50.6 Group Accounts 62 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 18 Obligations under finance leases and operating leases continued The noncancellable operating leases principally relate to leasehold land and buildings.
Of the total operating lease payments charged to trading expenses, 0.1 million 2008: 0.1 million are in respect of contingent rentals.
The contingent rentals are based on the revenues generated at the specific locations.
Sublease payments received in the year amount to 0.4 million 2008: 0.6 million.
Total future sublease payments receivable relating to operating leases amount to 0.5 million 2008: 0.6 million.
In addition, the Group has operating lease commitments with rentals determined in relation to sales.
It is not possible to quantify future rentals payable under such leases.
19 Provisions Asbestos Onerous Cancellation Dilapidations rectification contracts provision Total m m m m m a b c d At beginning of period 2.2 0.3 0.7 0.4 3.6 Charged to income statement 0.4 0.6 1.0 Utilised in period 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.9 Amortisation of discount 0.1 0.1 At end of period 2.4 0.1 0.6 0.7 3.8 Provisions have been analysed between current and noncurrent as follows: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Current 1.3 1.3 Noncurrent 2.5 2.3 3.8 3.6 a Dilapidations The provision for dilapidations covers the costs of repair to leased premises occupied by the Group in respect of which a dilapidations notification has been received, and properties where a dilapidation obligation exists but for which no notification has been received.
It is anticipated that the element of provision relating to dilapidation notices served, 0.7 million 2008: 0.6 million, will be incurred in the following financial year, and the element relating to dilapidation obligations where no notice has been served will be utilised over the terms of the relevant property leases, the majority of which is expected to be by 31December 2018. b Asbestos rectification In May 2004, the Control of Asbestos at Work regulations came into effect.
This introduces an explicit duty to manage asbestos in all nondomestic properties.
Those who have responsibility for the maintenance and or repair of the premises are similarly responsible for the control of asbestos.
Therefore, where the Group has entered into leases with a tenantrepairing clause, it is also responsible for the control of asbestos.
The provision includes the expected rectification costs of properties not yet surveyed for asbestos plus the estimated costs of surveying these properties.
It is anticipated that the provision will be utilised by the end of 2010. c Onerous contracts The Group has provided for the discounted future costs of certain contracts to which the Group is legally bound.
These contracts relate to vacant leasehold properties and other contracts from which no economic benefit is derived.
The provision will be utilised over the term of the contracts and it is anticipated that it will be fully utilised after seven years.
Included within the provision is an amount of 0.1 million 2008: 0.2 million relating to the expected costs of ongoing rent reviews, the outcomesof which have been based on recent experience of similar reviews on other properties.
Group Accounts 63 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 19 Pr Pro ovisions visions contin continued ued d Cancellation provision As described in note 1, the Group receives monies from certain prearranged funeral plan Trusts in respect of the marketing of prearranged funeral plans, which are refundable to the Trust in the event of cancellation.
The provision covers the expected cost of such cancellations anticipated to occur in future years relating to plans sold before the balance sheet date and is anticipated to be utilised over the next three years.
20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28 per cent 2008: 28 per cent.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m At beginning of period 24.4 14.9 Charged to income statement note 6 0.9 2.0 Exceptional adjustment for change in industrial building allowances 0.4 Taken to equity note 6 0.5 1.9 Arising on acquisitions note 26 a 1.2 5.2 At end of period 26.0 24.4 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the period are shown below: Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax Pensions depreciation Other Total m m m m At beginning of period 3.0 16.6 6.2 25.8 Charged to income statement note 6 0.5 0.4 0.9 Taken to equity note 6 0.5 0.5 Arising on acquisitions note 26 a 0.7 0.5 1.2 At end of period 2.5 17.8 7.1 27.4 Deferred tax assets Provisions Other Total m m m At beginning of period 0.1 1.3 1.4 Charged credited to income statement note 6 0.1 0.1 At end of period 1.4 1.4 All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax provision at 25 December 2009 was 26.0 million 2008: 24.4 million.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of losses within the Group amounting to 4.3 million net at 28 per cent 2008: 4.1million net at 28 per cent.
Based on the current debt structure of the Group and the nature of these losses, the Directors do not consider that taxable profitswill arise in the relevant company from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Elements of these deferred tax balances may be payable recoverable within one year.
However, the Directors consider that it is not possible to quantify the amount because the level of uncertainty in the timing of events and have therefore classified the whole balance as due after more than one year.
Group Accounts 64 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 20 Deferred tax continued The deferred income tax credited charged to equity during the period was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax credit charge on actuarial losses gains on retirement benefit obligations 0.5 1.6 Deferred tax charge on employee share options 0.3 21 Financial instruments Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at relevant interest rates.
The carrying values of short term borrowings approximate to book value.
Trade receivables are held net of impairment.
Fair value estimation On 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value, this requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
All assets and liabilities are held at book value other than interest rate swaps which are held at fair value.
These swaps are level 2 with all other assets and liabilities level 1. a Fair value of current and non-current financial assets and liabilities 25 December 2009 26 December 2008 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Long term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations note 16 265.8 289.2 268.4 230.4 Finance lease liabilities note 16 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 266.6 290.0 269.2 231.2 Fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Short term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations note 16 8.5 9.0 8.0 7.1 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities note 17 32.9 32.9 33.2 33.2 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments note 14 19.0 19.0 20.1 20.1 Cash and cash equivalents note 15 45.8 45.8 46.746.7 Other noncurrent financial liabilities note 17 3.1 3.1 2.8 2.8 Group Accounts 65 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 21 Financial Financial instruments instruments contin continued ued b Maturity of financial liabilities The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest costs yet to be incurred.
25 December 2009 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities Class A and B Secured Notes gross 8.0 5.9 6.3 14.2 227.7 262.1 Interest payable on Notes 28.2 18.4 18.0 34.8 170.4 269.8 Swaps 1.0 0.7 0.7 1.4 5.3 9.1 Crematoria acquisition facility 10.0 10.0 Interest payable on acquisition facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 1.9 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.8 Debt repayments 37.8 25.6 25.6 60.9 403.8 553.7 Other financial liabilities 33.9 0.4 0.4 0.5 1.2 36.4 Total 71.7 26.0 26.0 61.4 405.0 590.1 26 December 2008 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities Class A and B Secured Notes gross 7.4 5.5 5.9 13.1 235.1 267.0 Interest payable on Notes 28.7 18.7 18.4 35.6 187.5 288.9 Swaps 1.0 0.7 0.7 1.4 6.0 9.8 Crematoria acquisition facility 7.4 7.4 Interest payable on acquisition facility 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.9 2.1 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.8 Debt repayments 37.5 25.3 25.5 58.5 429.2 576.0 Other financial liabilities 34.1 0.4 0.1 0.5 1.5 36.6 Total 71.6 25.7 25.6 59.0 430.7 612.6 This amount includes 2.6 million 2008: 2.4 million that was paid on 31 December 2009 2008: 31 December 2008.
This amount includes 9.5 million 2008: 9.6 million that was paid on 31 December 2009 2008: 31 December 2008.
This amount includes 0.3 million 2008: 0.3 million that was paid on 31 December 2009 2008: 31 December 2008.
This amount includes 0.1 million 2008: 0.1 million that was paid on 31 December 2009 2008: 31 December 2008.
Group Accounts 66 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 21 Financial instruments continued The amounts disclosed in the tables below represent the anticipated amortisation profile for the issue costs and premium relating to the issue of the A and B Secured Notes.
25 December 2009 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Non-cash liabilities Issue costs 1.2 1.2 1.2 2.2 8.8 14.6 Premium on Secured Notes 0.8 0.8 0.7 1.4 7.4 11.1 Crematoria acquisition facility 0.1 0.1 0.2 Total 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.9 1.4 3.7 26 December 2008 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Non-cash liabilities Issue costs 1.2 1.3 1.2 2.3 9.9 15.9 Premium on Secured Notes 0.8 0.8 0.8 1.5 8.0 11.9 Crematoria acquisition facility 0.2 0.2 Total 0.4 0.5 0.4 1.0 1.9 4.2 c Trade receivables As at 25 December 2009, 7.2 million of the gross trade receivables 2008: 6.9 million were past due and partially impaired.
The amount of the provision, as at 25 December 2009, was 3.6 million 2008: 3.3 million.
The individually impaired receivables principally relate to monies owing for funerals performed by the funeral services division.
The aging of these receivables is as follows: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m One to six months 4.5 4.8 Over six months 2.7 2.1 7.2 6.9 The amount of gross trade receivables past due that were not impaired was not significant.
Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m At beginning of period 3.3 2.5 Charged to income statement 1.1 2.0 Utilised in period 0.8 1.2 At end of period 3.6 3.3 d Borrowing facilities i The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 25 December 2009, all of which were at floating interest rates, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Expiring within one year 40.0 40.0 Expiring between one and two years Expiring in more than two years 5.0 5.0 45.0 45.0 Group Accounts 67 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Financial instruments continued 40.0 million of the amount above is a liquidity facility relating to the Class A and B Secured Notes.
This facility may only be used to repay interest and principal on the Secured Notes in the event of insufficient cash to service these instruments.
The facility is subject to annual renewal.
However, if the bank providing the facility does not renew it, then the provider is required to place 40.0 million in a bank account, which the Group may access as if it represented a borrowing facility on the same terms.
The remaining 5.0 million facility expires in April 2013.
Both these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
ii The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Not later than one year 0.1 0.1 Later than one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 More than five years 2.9 2.9 3.2 3.2 Future finance costs on finance leases 2.4 2.4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.8 0.8 22 Called up share capital 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Authorised Equity shares 77,777,777 2008: 77,777,777 Ordinary Shares of 0.09 each 7.0 7.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid Equity shares 63,737,653 2008: 63,484,135 Ordinary Shares of 0.09 each 5.7 5.7 Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
During the period the Group received nil in relation to the 253,482 shares issued under the 2006 LTIP scheme.
Potential issues of Ordinary Shares Certain employees hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under an approved Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme started in 2007.
In addition, Executive Directors and senior management hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs awarded in 2007, 2008 and 2009.
The total number of outstanding shares subject to options excluding lapses, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below: Exercise price 2009 2008 2007 Year of grant pence Exercise period Number Number Number 1 July 2010 2007 SAYE 714.67 to 1 January 2011 200,566 239,524 280,873 27 March 2010 2007 LTIP to 27 March 2011 229,815 230,021 232,543 17 March 2011 2008 LTIP to 17 March 2012 227,089 227,963 n a 20 March 2012 2009 LTIP to 20 March 2013 267,272 n a n a Group Accounts 68 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 23 Share-based payments LTIP Schemes The LTIP Scheme was introduced after the flotation of the Group in 2004.
Under the LTIP Scheme, the remuneration committee can grant options over shares in the Company to employees of the Group.
Awards under the LTIP Scheme are generally reserved for Executive Directors and senior management.
The Company has made annual grants since April 2004.
Options granted under the LTIP Scheme will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the conditions described on pages 25 and 26.
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment unless an individual ceases to be an employee by reason of death, illness, redundancy or other similar circumstances.
Options were valued using the Monte Carlo option pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 20 March 18 March 27 March Grant date 2009 2008 2007 Share price at grant date 5.66 7.62 6.68 Exercise price Number of employees 30 31 31 Shares under option 268,799 229,733 234,543 Vesting period years 3 33 Expected volatility 23.1% 18.1% 16.6% Option life years 10 10 10 Expected life years 3 33 Risk free rate 1.89% 3.74% 5.22% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2.1% 1.6% 1.6% Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting 0% 0% 0% Fair value per option 3.11 4.13 3.62 The expected volatility is calculated by reference to historical volatility over the last three years.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zerocoupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
During the period, nil options 2008: nil under the 2006 LTIP Scheme, 206 options 2008: 2,522 under the 2007 LTIP Scheme, 874 2008: 1,770 under the 2008 LTIP scheme and 1,527 under the 2009 LTIP scheme were forfeited.
253,482 options were exercised under the 2006 LTIP Scheme during the period.
The share price of the options exercised during the period was 5.48.
The charge to the income statement in the period in respect of the LTIP Schemes was 0.8 million 2008: 0.7 million.
All of which are equity based settled.
SAYE Scheme One Inland Revenue approved SAYE Scheme was in place during the period and was valued using the BlackScholes option pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2007 Scheme Grant date 21 May 2007 Share price at grant date 7.26 Exercise price 7.15 Number of employees 680 Shares under option 292,377 Vesting period years 3 Expected volatility 16.8% Option life years 3.5 Expected life years 3.25 Risk free rate 5.48% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 1.4% Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting per annum 5.8% Possibility of failing to save 0% Fair value per option 1.34 During the period 38,922 2008: 40,821 under the 2007 SAYE Scheme were forfeited and 36 options 2008: 528 were exercised.
The weighted average share price of the options exercised during the period was 5.20.
The charge to the income statement in the period in respect of the SAYE Schemes was 0.2 million 2008: 0.1 million.
Group Accounts 69 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 24Accounti Net Debt ng policies continued 25 December 26 December 2009 2008 m m Net amounts owing on Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements 258.6 263.0 Add: unamortised issue costs 14.6 15.9 Net amounts owing on Crematoria Acquisition Facility per financial statements 9.8 7.2 Add: unamortised issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.2 0.2 Gross amounts owing 283.2 286.3 Accrued interest on Class A and B Secured Notes paid 31 December 9.6 9.7 Accrued interest on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 45.8 46.7 Net debt 247.1 249.3 In addition to the above, the consolidated balance sheet also includes finance lease obligations and other financial liabilities which totalled 6.7 million 2008: 7.0 million.
These amounts do not represent sources of funding for the Group and are therefore excluded from the calculation of net debt.
The Groups primary financial covenant in respect of the Secured Notes requires EBITDA to total debt service to be at least 1.5 times.
At 25 December 2009, the actual ratio was 2.60 times 2008: 2.55 times.
These ratios are calculated for EBITDA and total debt service on a 12 month rolling basis and reported quarterly.
In addition, both terms are specifically defined in the legal agreement relating to the Secured Notes.
As such, they can not be accurately calculated from the contents of this report.
25 Reconciliation of cash generated from operations 2009 2008 m m Net profit for the period 26.6 24.6 Adjustments for: Taxation 10.9 10.8 Net finance costs 20.0 17.8 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 1.1 1.1 Depreciation charges 8.3 7.9 Amortisation of intangibles 0.2 0.2 Changes in working capital excluding acquisitions 0.6 1.3 Employee share option charges note 23 1.0 0.8 Cash generated from operations 65.3 62.3 Other non-cash transactions Noncash charges comprise amortisation of deferred debt issue costs, as discussed in note 16 a and b.
26 Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisition of subsidiary and other businesses Carrying values pre Provisional acquisition Adjustments fair value m m m Tangible fixed assets 2.1 2.1 Intangible assets: Trade names 2.8 2.8 Other working capital 0.1 0.1 Deferred taxation 1.2 1.2 Net assets acquired 2.2 1.5 3.7 Goodwill arising 9.6 13.3 Satisfied by: Cash paid on completion funded from internally generated cash flows 13.3 Group Accounts 70 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 26 Acquisitions and disposals continued During 2009, the Group acquired the operational interest of seven funeral locations and five crematoria.
These transactions were either acquisitions of trade and assets or acquisitions of the entire issued share capital of a limited company.
All these acquisitions have been accounted for under the acquisition method.
None were individually material and consequently have been aggregated.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
This represents the value to the Group of the funeral or crematoria locations.
The fair value adjustments contain some provisional amounts, which will be finalised in 2010.
These adjustments reflect the recognition of trade names and associated deferred taxation and adjustments to reflect the fair value of other working capital movements such as debtors, stock and accruals.
The businesses acquired have their assets and liabilities amalgamated within the existing business structure and as such, it is impractical to determine, without undue expense and delay due to the immaterial size of each, the post acquisition results.
It is also not possible to quantify the results of these businesses prior to acquisition as it represents confidential information relating to the vendors, which the Directors do not have authority to disclose.
b Reconciliation to cash flow statement 2009 2008 m m Cash paid on completion 13.3 31.5 Cash paid in respect of deferred consideration obligations 0.1 0.1 Cash acquired on acquisition 0.1 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses as reported in the cash flow statement 13.3 31.5 27 Employees and Directors 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 56.4 53.9 Social security costs 4.5 4.4 Other pension costs 1.0 1.2 Employee share option charges note 23 0.2 0.1 Key management share option charges note 23 0.8 0.7 62.9 60.3 Key management are considered to be the Board of Directors only and thus no additional disclosures are presented than that included in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The monthly average number of people, including Directors, employed by the Group during the period was as follows: 2009 2008 Number Number Management and administration 115 113 Funeral services staff 2,035 2,007 Crematoria staff 256 232 Prearranged funeral plan staff 49 40 2,455 2,392 Directors emoluments Details of Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 28 and 29 which form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Group Accounts 71 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 28Accounti Pensionng commitmen policies contin ts ued Defined contribution plans The Group contributes to certain individuals personal pension schemes.
These contributions are accounted for as defined contributions.
The pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Defined contribution schemes 0.1 0.1 Defined benefit plans In 2005, the Group operated two defined benefit plans in the UK.
On 6 April 2006 the Dignity 1972 Pension Scheme was merged into the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2008.
The valuation results of the merged scheme were updated to 24 December 2009 being the last business day before the balance sheet date by a qualified independent Actuary.
For 2009, the employers contribution rate payable was 9.2 per cent of Pensionable Salaries 2008: 5.5 per cent of Pensionable Salaries plus 39,750 per month.
The total monetary contribution paid by the employer for 2009 was 1.3 million 2008: 1.2 million.
The principal assumptions used by the actuary were: Assumptions 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.7% 6.25% Expected longterm rate of return on assets 5.5% 5.4% Rate of increase in salaries 3.75% 3.15% Rate of increase in payment of pre April 1997 excess over GMP pensions Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme members 0% 0% Rate of increase in payment of post April 1997 pensionable service 3.4% 2.8% Rate of increase in payment of post April 2005 pensionable service 2.5% 2.3% Price inflation assumption 3.5% 2.9% The underlying mortality assumption is PCA00 on a year of birth usage, with medium cohort future improvement factors subject to a minimum annual rate of future improvement equal to one per cent and rated up by the addition of four years to age for males and by the addition of one year to age for females 2008: same.
Pensions and other post-retirement obligations The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2009 2008 m m Fair value of plan assets 77.1 69.1 Present value of funded obligations 68.0 55.9 Net asset recognised in the balance sheet 9.1 13.2 Group Accounts 72 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 28 Pension commitments continued Analysis of amount charged to income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 0.8 0.9 Past service cost 0.1 0.2 Total included within cost of sales staff costs 0.9 1.1 Interest cost 3.5 3.6 Expected return on plan assets 3.8 4.3 Total included within finance income 0.3 0.7 Expected contributions to post employment benefit plans for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 are 1.3 million.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of obligation at beginning of period 55.9 61.1 59.3 57.8 52.9 Current service cost 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 Past service cost 0.1 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 3.5 3.6 3.0 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 2.9 2.8 2.6 2.3 1.9 Contributions by participants 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 0.9 Actuarial losses gains 9.3 8.4 1.0 1.4 2.1 Present value of obligation at end of period 68.0 55.9 61.1 59.3 57.8 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 69.1 67.9 59.9 45.8 39.1 Expected return on plan assets 3.8 4.3 3.7 2.8 2.4 Contributions by Group 1.3 1.2 1.2 11.2 1.4 Contributions by participants 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 0.9 Benefits paid 2.9 2.8 2.6 2.3 1.9 Actuarial gains losses 4.5 2.8 4.4 1.0 3.9 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9 45.8 Group Accounts 73 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 28 Pension commitments continued Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet asset 2009 2008 m m At beginning of period 13.2 6.8 Total expense as above 0.6 0.4 Actuarial losses gains 4.8 5.6 Contributions by Group 1.3 1.2 At end of period 9.1 13.2 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity 2009 2008 m m At beginning of period 14.5 8.9 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the period 4.8 5.6 At end of period 9.7 14.5 The actual return on plan assets was 8.3 million 2008: 1.5 million.
History of experience gains and losses 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Amount m 4.5 2.8 4.4 1.0 3.9 Percentage of schemes assets 5.8% 4.1% 6.5% 1.7% 8.5% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.3 1.0 0.9 0.5 0.5 Percentage of the present value of the schemes liabilities 0.4% 1.8% 1.5% 0.8% 0.9% Present value of scheme liabilities m 68.0 55.9 61.1 59.3 57.8 Fair value of scheme assets m 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9 45.8 Surplus deficit m 9.1 13.2 6.8 0.6 12.0 Increase decrease in Liabilities Assets Surplus surplus Change in assumptions m m m m No change 68.0 77.1 9.1 0.25% rise in discount rate 65.4 77.1 11.7 2.6 0.25% fall in discount rate 70.9 77.1 6.2 2.9 0.25% rise in inflation 70.0 77.1 7.1 2.0 0.25% fall in inflation 66.2 77.1 10.9 1.8 29 Other commitments Dignity Prearrangement Limited, Dignity Securities Limited and Advance Planning Limited are fellow members of the Dignity Group in the United Kingdom.
These companies have sold prearranged funeral plans to their clients in the past.
All monies from these sales are held and controlled by three independent Trusts, being the National Funeral Trust, the Dignity Limited Trust Fund and the Trust for Age Concern Funeral Plans respectively.
Full details of the transactions can be found in the financial statements of these companies, which are available from Plantsbrook House, 94 The Parade, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands, B72 1PH.
The Group has given commitments to certain of these clients to perform their funeral.
The cost of the performance of these funerals will be paid out of the funds held in the Trusts.
During the period, the Group has committed to develop a new crematorium in Cambridgeshire.
It is the view of the Directors that none of these commitments are onerous to the Group.
Group Accounts 74 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2009 30 Contingent liabilities a Securitisation On 11 April 2003, the Group refinanced its debt by way of a whole business securitisation.
Furthermore, on 21 February 2006 further Secured Notes were issued on identical terms.
As a result, the following guarantees and charges were granted to BNY Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Security Trustee in the securitisation: The Dignity 2002 Group have granted the Security Trustee fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of the Dignity 2002 Group: Dignity plc has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity 2004 Limited: Dignity 2004 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited and Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Mezzco Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loans both interest and non interest bearing to Dignity Mezzco Limited: Dignity Mezzco Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loan to Dignity 2002 Limited.
At 25 December 2009, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 273.2 million 2008: 278.8 million.
b Crematoria acquisition facility On 24 November 2008, the Group obtained a 10 million loan facility from the National Westminster Bank plc Nat West, which is fully drawn.
As a consequence of the legal structure of this facility: Dignity plc has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity 2008 Limited: Dignity 2008 Limited has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Crematoria Limited: Dignity 2008 Limited and Dignity Crematoria Limited have granted Nat West fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of each of Dignity 2008 Limited and Dignity Crematoria Limited: and Dignity plc have acted as guarantor in the event that Dignity 2008 Limited fails to pay interest due on the facility.
In the opinion of the Directors no liability is likely to crystallise in respect of these guarantees.
At 25 December 2009, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 10 million 2008: 7.4 million.
Group Accounts 75 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 Related party transactions The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dignity plc.
Peter Hindley purchased his company car in January 2010.
This was at an external independent valuation of 28,000.
The sale by the Group was formally approved by the Board.
Pre-arrangement trusts During the period the Group entered into transactions with the Trusts associated with the prearranged funeral plan businesses.
The nature of the relationship with the Trusts is set out in the accounting policies.
Transactions represent: Expenses paid by the Group on behalf of the respective Trusts: Transfers of funds in relation to payments in respect of deaths and cancellations of existing members: The recovery of marketing and administration expenses in relation to plans sold net of cancellations: and The payment of realised surpluses generated by the Trust funds as and when the trustees sanction such payments.
Related party transactions are summarised below: Amounts due to the Transactions during the period Group at the period end 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Dignity Limited Trust Fund 0.3 0.3 National Funeral Trust 16.8 14.9 1.5 1.6 Trust for Age Concern Funeral Plans 17.9 15.2 2.1 1.7 32 Post balance sheet events On 22 February 2010, the Group committed to build a crematorium in Somerset.
On 25 February 2010, the Group acquired two funeral locations.
