Information for Shareholders Shareholder Information Registered office Dividend payments made in foreign currencies Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire Our Registrars are now able to convert dividends to certain HP2 7TG.
com foreign currencies payable through the Bank of New York.
More details are available by contacting the Registrars on Registrars and transfer office 44 0 20 8639 3405 or by visiting their website, Capita Registrars Limited, Northern House, Woodsome Park, www.
com international Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network CREST extras.
If calling from abroad the number is 44 20 8639 3399.
The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST is The website address is www.
com a voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than Joint brokers by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in this way can opt Citigroup Global Markets, JP Morgan Cazenove.
to receive their dividends through the CREST system.
Shareholder enquiries Unsolicited mail Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet.
The Company is obliged to make its share register available to The web address for our Registrars site is shown above.
As third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in well as checking name, address and shareholding details in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
This is a secure site and you will need to register first.
Please follow The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, the simple instructions on the website.
So that the system can London W1E 7ER or register on their website at validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required.
org numerical account number and can be found on both your ShareGift share certificate and your dividend tax counterfoil.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share Share dealing service donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of Online and telephone share dealing services are available shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift internet to use services.
There is no need to pre-register and the site, www.
org facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities you will need Alternative format your Investor Code see above as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the online If you would like this Annual Report dealing service are available on www.
com and the and Accounts or any other shareholder telephone dealing service is on 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open Monday documentation in an alternative to Friday 8.00am to 4.30pm.
format, please send a request to Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private corporate.
com investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Details are available from Cazenove.
If you wish to receive hard copies of all documents in the Dividend mandate future please contact Capita Registrars and they will record If you wish your dividends to be paid directly into a bank or this preference against your name on the share register.
You building society account you should contact the Registrars can contact Capita Registrars, Shareholder Administration for a dividend mandate form or download one from the Support, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA.
This method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the dividend payment date.
120 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
