Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Independent Auditors Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements To the members of DSG international plc Opinions We have audited the parent company financial statements Financial statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 May 2009 In our opinion the parent company financial statements: which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the give a true and fair view of the state of the parent related notes a to n. The financial reporting framework that companys affairs as at 2 May 2009: has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
UK GAAP: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a have been prepared in accordance with the requirements body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 that we might state to the Companys members those matters In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for for the financial period for which the financial statements are no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we prepared is consistent with the parent company financial do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than statements.
the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that the financial statements are not in agreement with accounting records and returns: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Other matter Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of DSG international plc for the year ended 2 May 2009 and Scope of the audit of the financial statements on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts is described as having been audited.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Peter ODonoghue FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 25 June 2009 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 111
