Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard and regulations.
They are required to prepare accounts for the the assets of the Company and to take reasonable steps for Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting the prevention and detection of fraud or any other irregularities Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and and for the preparation of a Directors Report and directors have chosen to prepare unconsolidated company financial Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are responsible Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
In the case of the consolidated IFRSs financial statements, Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, Responsibility statement other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions We confirm to the best of our knowledge: and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and the Group and unconsolidated Company financial statements expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation and loss of the Group and Company, respectively: and of Financial Statements.
In almost all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable the Performance Review includes a fair review of the IFRSs.
The directors are also required to: development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the properly select and apply accounting policies: principal risks and uncertainties they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a By Order of the Board manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position and financial performance.
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury In the case of the unconsolidated Company financial statements Chief Executive Group Finance Director prepared under UK GAAP, the directors are required by UK 25 June 2009 25 June 2009 company law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company for each financial period as at the end of that financial period and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing both the consolidated Group financial statements and the unconsolidated Company financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed in the Directors Report.
62 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
