Notes to the Group financial statements At 27 December 2009 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The financial statements of Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 February 2010 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Lee Ginsberg.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc is a public limited company Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is Dominos House, Lasborough Road, Kingston, Milton Keynes, MK10 0AB.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Of cial List of the FSA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Changes in accounting policy IFRS 8 Operating Segments In the current financial period, the Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 concerns the presentation and disclosure of segment information in the Groups financial statements and consequently has not affected the measurement of the Groups pro t, assets or liabilities.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This has not resulted in any additional segments being presented.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised The standard has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets, which is in line with the Groups current policy.
IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations Amendment The amendment to IFRS 2 restricts the fide nition of vesting conditions to include only service conditions requiring a speci ed period of service to be completed and performance conditions requiring the other party to achieve a personal goal or contribute to achieving a corporate target.
All other features are not vesting conditions.
This amendment to the standard has not had a signi cant impact on the Group and therefore no prior year adjustment has been made.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment The amendment to IFRS 7 enhances disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
IFRS 7 now requires instruments measured at fair value to be disclosed by the source of the inputs in determining fair value, using a three-level hierarchy.
The amendment has also enhanced the minimum liquidity disclosures, speci cally requiring the management of liquidity risk to be considered and disclosure made of a maturity analysis of financial assets held for managing liquidity risk.
The Group has provided enhanced disclosures as required by the amendment.
Key source of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that effect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following are considered to be the key sources of estimation uncertainty for the period ended 27 December 2009: A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a signi cant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
Note 14 outlines the approach used in the impairment testing of property, plant and equipment.
The remaining recoverable amount of the impaired commissary is 2,336,000.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements continued At 27 December 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Key source of estimation uncertainty continued The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certa in items whose tax treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash ow variances.
Key judgement is required in determining the impact of the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited.
This has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 see note 19 and includes the recognition of deferred tax assets and accounting for the excess of fair value of net assets over consideration.
Tax bene ts are not recognised unless it is probable that the bene t will be obtained see note 11.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the nearest Sunday to 31 December each year.
The interim results are prepared for the first 26 weeks of the relevant full period.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain bene t from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised pro ts arising from them, are eliminated upon consolidation.
Minority interests represent the portion of pro t and loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity Interests in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has signi cant in uence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Groups income statement re ects the Groups share of the associates results after tax.
The Group statement of changes in equity re ects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate outside pro t and loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the associates identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the associates identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the associates pro t or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group: to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to re ect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
Foreign currencies Foreign operations The income and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the monthly average rate of exchange ruling throughout the year.
The balance sheet of the overseas subsidiary undertaking is translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are included within equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed.
The Group utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 whereby cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at 1 January 2006 the date of transition to IFRS.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement for the period.
56 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identi able net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet in the year in which it arises and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
Goodwill is recognised on the purchase of further minority interests under the parent entity extension method, whereby the entire difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary and the minority interests share of the assets and liabilities re ected in the consolidated balance sheet at the date of the acquisition of the minority interest is re ected as goodwill.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually, and more frequently if events or changes indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at business segment level or statutory company level as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2006 the date of transition to IFRS was tested for impairment at the date of transition and was recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP.
Intangible assets Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the speci c software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identi ed and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic bene ts.
These assets are considered to have nite useful lives and are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and five years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight line method on the following bases: Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 50 years, or the lease term if shorter.
Plant, equipment, xtures and ttings and motor vehicles at rates varying from 10% to 50%.
Leasehold building improvements over the life of the lease.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Land and buildings under construction and non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated.
The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic bene ts are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classi ed as non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at cost and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 57 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements continued At 27 December 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classi ed as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sales rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met if a sale is expected to materialise within 12 months after the balance sheet date and the asset is available for immediate disposal in its present condition.
Non-current assets classi ed as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
After classi cation as assets held for sale, no further depreciation is provided for on the assets.
Leases Group as lessee Leases are classi ed as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classi ed as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and bene ts of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classi ed as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash in ows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in pro t or loss.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an out ow of economic bene t will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
58 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 7 28 days terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction t hat is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting pro t nor taxable pro t or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro t will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which signi cant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modi ed, such an exchange or modi cation is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in pro t or loss.
Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc shares held by the Company and the Group are classi ed in shareholders equity as Capital Reserve Own Shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 59 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements continued At 27 December 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic bene ts will ow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue from pizza delivery, commissary and equipment sales is recognised on delivery to customers and franchisees.
Revenue from franchise fees is recognised on commencement of the franchisee trading.
Royalties Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Rental income Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Finance lease interest income is recognised as set out in the leasing accounting policy.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing of speci c funds.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the fide nition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs should commence when: expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred: and activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
When construction occurs piecemeal and use of each part is possible as construction continues, capitalisation for each part ceases on substantial completion of that part.
For borrowing associated with a speci c asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings are capitalised.
To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset.
The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made speci cally for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payments The Group provides bene ts to employees including Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the period in which performance and or service conditions are ful lled.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using the Black-Scholes and Binomial models.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satis ed, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satis ed.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in equity.
60 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
