Notes to the Group financial statements At 27 December 2009 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The financial statements of Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 February 2010 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Lee Ginsberg.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc is a public limited company Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is Dominos House, Lasborough Road, Kingston, Milton Keynes, MK10 0AB.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Of cial List of the FSA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Changes in accounting policy IFRS 8 Operating Segments In the current financial period, the Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 concerns the presentation and disclosure of segment information in the Groups financial statements and consequently has not affected the measurement of the Groups pro t, assets or liabilities.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This has not resulted in any additional segments being presented.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised The standard has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets, which is in line with the Groups current policy.
IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations Amendment The amendment to IFRS 2 restricts the fide nition of vesting conditions to include only service conditions requiring a speci ed period of service to be completed and performance conditions requiring the other party to achieve a personal goal or contribute to achieving a corporate target.
All other features are not vesting conditions.
This amendment to the standard has not had a signi cant impact on the Group and therefore no prior year adjustment has been made.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment The amendment to IFRS 7 enhances disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
IFRS 7 now requires instruments measured at fair value to be disclosed by the source of the inputs in determining fair value, using a three-level hierarchy.
The amendment has also enhanced the minimum liquidity disclosures, speci cally requiring the management of liquidity risk to be considered and disclosure made of a maturity analysis of financial assets held for managing liquidity risk.
The Group has provided enhanced disclosures as required by the amendment.
Key source of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that effect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following are considered to be the key sources of estimation uncertainty for the period ended 27 December 2009: A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a signi cant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
Note 14 outlines the approach used in the impairment testing of property, plant and equipment.
The remaining recoverable amount of the impaired commissary is 2,336,000.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
