Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modi ed or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modi cation, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modi ed award, both as measured on the date of the modi cation.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modi cation of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is re ected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted EPS further details are given in note 12.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued standards and interpretations with an effective date for periods starting on or after the date on which these financial statements commence.
The following applicable standards and interpretations have been issued, none of which are anticipated to signi cantly impact the Groups results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require signi cant disclosure.
Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not yet endorsed by the EU 1 January 2013 IFRS 2 Group cash settled share-based payment arrangements 1 January 2010 IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations 1 July 2009 The key features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for acquisition-related costs to be expensed and not included in the purchase price: and for contingent consideration to be recognised at fair value on the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised in the income statement and not as a change to goodwill.
The standard also changes the treatment of noncontrolling interests formerly minority interests with an option to recognise these at full fair value as at the acquisition date and a requirement for previously held non-controlling interests to be fair valued as at the date control is obtained, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements Amendments 1 July 2009 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 17 Distribution of non cash assets to owners 1 January 2010 These standards will apply to the financial statements for the period ended 26 December 2010, however the change in accounting policy is to be applied prospectively.
Revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 December 28 December 2009 2008 000 000 Royalties and sales to franchisees 143,229 125,602 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 11,475 10,111 Finance lease income 340 264 155,044 135,977 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
