Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 119 GLOSSARY Ancillary services Company Frequency response service Services provided to National Grid used for Drax Group plc.
Services purchased by National Grid to maintain balancing supply and demand or maintaining system frequency.
secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits.
They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Availability Dark green spread Grid charges Average percentage of time the units were The difference between the price available in the Includes transmission network use of system available for generation.
market for sales of electricity and the marginal charges TNUoS, balancing services use of cost of production being the cost of coal and system charges BSUoS and distribution use other fuels including C0 emissions allowances.
2 Average achieved price Direct injection co-firing Group Power revenues divided by volume of net sales Is a process whereby biomass is fed directly that Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
is, avoiding the pulverising mills to the burners situated in the boiler walls.
Average capture price EBITDA IASs Revenue derived from bilateral contracts divided Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and International Accounting Standards.
by volume of net merchant sales.
amortisation, gain loss on disposal of fixed assets and unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts.
Balancing Mechanism ESIP IFRSs The sub-set of the market through which the The Drax Group plc Restricted Share Plan, also International Financial Reporting Standards.
System Operator can call upon additional known as the Drax Group plc Executive Share generation consumption or reduce Incentive Plan.
generation consumption, through market participants bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
Baseload EU ETS LECs Running 24 hours per day, seven days per week The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of Climate remaining permanently synchronised to the mechanism introduced across the EU to reduce Change Levy exempt electricity supplies system.
emissions of CO : the scheme is capable of being generated from qualifying renewable sources.
2 extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
Bilateral contracts Forced outage Load factor Contracts with counterparties and power Any reduction in plant availability excluding Net sent out generation as a percentage of exchange trades.
BMP Forced outage rate Lost time injury rate The Drax Group plc Bonus Matching Plan.
The capacity which is not available due to The frequency rate is calculated on the following forced outages or restrictions expressed as a basis: lost time injuries x 100,000 hours percentage of the maximum theoretical worked.
Lost time injuries are defined as capacity, less planned outage capacity.
occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours.
120 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 GLOSSARY Net Balancing Mechanism Pond fines Summer Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and Coal dust and waste coal from the cleaning The calendar months April to September.
offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
and screening process which can be used for coal-fired power generation.
Net merchant sales Power exchange trades Technical availability Net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts Power sales or purchases transacted on the APX Total availability after planned and forced and power exchange trades.
Net sales Power revenues Through-the-mill co-firing The aggregate of net merchant sales and net The aggregate of bilateral contracts and Is a process whereby biomass passes first Balancing Mechanism.
through the pulverising mills before going to the burners situated in the border walls.
Occupational health and safety ROCs Total recordable injury rate TRIR assessment series OHSAS Renewables Obligation Certificates.
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time injuries worst than first aid The OHSAS specification gives requirements for hours worked x 100,000. an occupational health and safety management system to enable an organisation to control occupational health and safety risks and improve its performance.
Planned outage SAYE Plan UK NAP A period during which scheduled maintenance is The Drax Group plc Approved Savings-Related UK National Allocation Plan.
executed according to the plan set at the outset Share Option Plan.
Planned outage rate SIP Winter The capacity not available due to planned The Drax Group plc Approved Share Incentive The calendar months October to March.
outages expressed as a percentage of the Plan.
inside tHis YeArs report Chairmans introduction p04 Chief Executives statement p06 the basics 02 chairmans introduction 04 chief executives statement 06 How were performing 20 Marketplace 22 operational and financial performance 26 principal risks and uncertainties 34 corporate responsibility 38 Design and production radley Yeldar | www.
com Photography Marcus Ginns, lloyd sturdy and Henry thomas Print Granite this report has been printed on cocoon silk which is 100% recycled and Fsc certified.
this report was p0919 printed by an Fsc and iso 14001 accredited printer WHAt We do best using vegetable oil and soya based inks.
We have a key role to play in the transition towards a Fsc Forest stewardship council.
this ensures that low carbon economy.
our focus is on delivering reliable, there is an audited chain of custody from the tree sustainable and secure supplies of electricity.
our goal in the well-managed forest through to the finished is to balance success and responsibility.
document in the printing factory.
iso 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be certified by a third party.
100% Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2009 www.
uk drax Group plc drax power station selby north Yorkshire Yo8 8pH telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192
