NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2009 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc d these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General will be held at the Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, Meeting to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 1 November 2010, save London EC2M 7QN, on Tuesday 8 September 2009 at 12 noon to consider that the Company shall be entitled under such authorities to honour and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 7 at any time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 will shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the be proposed as special resolutions.
expiry of such authority: and 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the Auditors Report and e all previous unutilised authorities under Section 95 of the Companies financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2009.
2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
9 That in accordance with article 11 of the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 1985, the Company is generally 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the 4 To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a Director of the Company.
meaning of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence 5 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold ofce until each in the capital of the Company in such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are to be laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be the remuneration of the auditors.
purchased is 39,335,589 ordinary shares: 6 That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share 41,000,000 to 70,000,000 by the creation of 290,000,000 is 10 pence exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : additional ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ranking pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company.
an amount equal to the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London 7 That:  a in accordance with article 6 of the Articles of Association of preceding the date of any such purchase and the amount stipulated the Company by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 i the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a in each case exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and maximum nominal amount of 13,111,863.10: and further d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked ii the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting an additional maximum nominal amount of 13,111,863.10 to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 1 November 2010, save that the in connection with a rights issue as dened in article 7 of the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any Companys Articles of Association : time before the expiry thereof any contract to purchase its ordinary shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual expiry of such authority.
General Meeting after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 1 November 2010: and 10That in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be c all previous unutilised authorities under Section 80 of the Companies called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Act 1985 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to Section 80 7 of the Companies Act 1985 By Order of the Board by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be CAROLYN CATTERMOLE allotted on or after that date.
Company Secretary 8 That: 4-16 Artillery Row London SW1P 1RZ a in accordance with article 7 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be given power to allot equity securities From end August 2009: for cash: Beech House Whitebrook Park b the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities within 68 Lower Cookham Road Section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section 89 1 Maidenhead of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply: Berkshire SL6 8XY c the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue and paragraph b above shall be limited to 16 July 2009 the allotment of equity securities having a maximum nominal amount of 1,966,779: 108 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING NOTES available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
i Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation Company as at 6pm on 6 September 2009 shall be entitled to attend to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered CREST Member concerned to take or, if the CREST Member is a CREST in their names at that time.
personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service ii Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the Meeting.
message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the time.
In this connection, CREST Members and, where applicable, their Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. the Registrars at the address shown on the Form not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Completion and return of the viii As at 24 June 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to Form will not, however, prevent a Member from attending and voting publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital at the Meeting.
consists of 393,355,893 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 24 June 2009 iv Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated are 393,355,893. under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them ix In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the a if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as , thenonapollthose to the exercise of voting rights.
corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and v The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative of proxies in Notes ii and iii above does not apply to Nominated in accordance with those directions: and Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised b if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate by shareholders of the Company.
shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not vi Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to a designated corporate representative will be nominated from those their investments in the Company.
corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that vii CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries to be held on 8 September 2009 and any adjournment s thereof by and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance Members or other CREST sponsored Members, and those CREST includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is Members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should being appointed as described in a above.
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
x It ispossiblethat,  under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Euroclears specications and must contain the information required Annual General Meeting.
The business which may be dealt with at for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an has been required, under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy to publish on its website.
must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy xi Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at appointments specified in iii above.
For this purpose, the time of &OveryLLP, receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD during normal business hours applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which and at the place of the Meeting from 11.45am until its conclusion: the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST a service contracts of the Executive Directors: and in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of  b letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive to the appointee through other means.
CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or xii The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make will be available to answer relevant questions at the Meeting.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 109 NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2009 CONTINUED EXPLANATORY NOTES ON THE RESOLUTIONS In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association Resolution 1: of British Insurers, the proposed new authority will allow the Directors to Report and financial statements  The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the existing issued share capital 13,111,863.10 plus, in the case of a fully Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the financial statements of the pre-emptive rights issueonly,  Company for the year ended 30 April 2009.
These are contained in the oftheCompanys existing issued share capital 13,111,863.10, Annual Report.
calculated as at 24 June 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
Resolution 2: Declaration of a final dividend The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount However, if they do exercise the authority, the  recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, shareholders will  includingas regards the Directors declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final dividend recommended standing for re-election in certain cases as recommended by the by the Directors is 1.8 pence net per ordinary share.
Resolution 3:  Approval of Report on Remuneration until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, 1 November 2010.
As required by section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder Resolution 8: approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out on pages 41 to 48.
Directors power to disapply pre-emption rights This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, supplements Resolution 4: the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company proposed by Re-election of Directors Resolution 7.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires a company The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors proposing to allot equity securities for cash to offer them first to existing retire from ofce at least once every three years but are eligible to submit shareholders pro rata to their existing shareholdings.
Authority was granted themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The Directors who retire at each to the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting and the Directors Annual General Meeting are those who would otherwise have served for propose to seek shareholders approval to renew this authority, pursuant over three years without re-election by the date of the following Annual to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot such securities, General Meeting.
notwithstanding the requirement imposed by Section 89, in two cases: Mr Johnson will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at in connection with a rights issue: and this years Annual General Meeting.
Mr Johnson is Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee.
allotments of shares for cash up to a total nominal value of 1,966,779 representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital A biography of each Director, including those seeking re-election, appears at 24 June 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to publication on pages 36 and 37 of the Annual Report.
of this document although it is not intended without prior consultation with the investment committee of the Association of British Insurers to Resolution 5: issue or transfer in this way more than 7.5% of the share capital in Re-appointment of Auditors and Auditors remuneration a rolling three-year period.
This gives the Directors exibility to take The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting advantage of business opportunities as they arise, including the sale of at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 5 proposes the re-appointment any shares the Company has purchased and held in treasury, whilst the of the Companys existing auditors, Deloitte LLP, until the next Annual 5% limit ensures that existing shareholders interests are protected, and General Meeting and also gives authority to the Directors to determine is in line with guidelines issued by institutional investors bodies.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Resolution 6: Meeting, or, ifearlier, on1November2010,  Increase in authorised share capital to allot shares have been entered into before that date.
It is the present The Companys current authorised share capital is 41,000,000, and the intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Companys issued share capital as at 24 June 2009 was 39,335,589.30, comprising 393,355,893 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Accordingly, Resolution 9: in order to renew the authority to allot ordinary shares as proposed by Companys authority to purchase shares This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to Resolution 7 for the full amount permitted in the latest guidelines issued by renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares the Association of British Insurers, it is necessary to increase the Companys inthemarket.
The proposed increase is of 29,000,000 by its capital resources.
The Directors have no specic intention of using this the creation of 290,000,000 additional ordinary shares of 10 pence authority and would do so only when, in the light of market conditions, they each.
This represents an increase of 70.73% in the authorised share believed that the effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings capital of the Company.
per share, and that the purchases were in the interests of shareholders Resolution 7: generally.
The Directors would also give careful consideration to gearing Directors authority to allot shares levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase At the Annual General Meeting held in 2008, shareholders authorised the price would be paid out of distributable profits.
Resolution 9 species Directors, under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot relevant the maximum number of shares which may be purchased representing securities without the prior consent of shareholders for a period expiring approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 24 June 2009, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009 or, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the if earlier, on 2 December 2009.
It is proposed to renew this authority and minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought and when the to authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities for a period expiring authority will expire, reecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 no later than 1 November 2010. and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING The maximum price at which the shares may be purchased is the higher of IMPORTANT NOTES ABOUT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 5% above the average of the middle market values of those shares for the Date five business days before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated Tuesday 8 September 2009 by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
The Companies Act 1985 enables certain listed companies to hold shares Location in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN own shares by the Company.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards Timing under the Companys share schemes.
Once held in treasury, the Company The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing to is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50am.
The reception at meetings, in respect of those shares.
Further, no dividend or distribution area will be open from 11.30am, from which time refreshments will of the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of those be served.
shares whilst held in treasury.
Travel information Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 9, A map on the reverse of the Admittance Card shows the location of the the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury rather Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel and the nearest underground and than cancelling them.
The total number of ordinary shares that are under railway stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool option through the Companys share option schemes at 24 June 2009 Street station.
There are no car-parking facilities at the venue.
being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice is 5,593,483 of which 4,675,676 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
Admission The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options over unissued Please bring the Admittance Card which is the tear-off section at the bottom ordinary shares represented on this date was 1.19% and the proportion of of the Form of Proxy with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show issued ordinary share capital that they will represent if the full authority to the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy purchase shares existing and being sought is used is 1.08%.
The authority holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
The registration will expire on 1 November 2010 or at the conclusion of the next Annual process may take longer without these documents.
Shareholders are politely General Meeting whichever is the earlier.
It is the present intention of the requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
arrangement with the Company Secretary.
Resolution 10: Notice of general meetings Facilities Resolution 10 is required in view of the implementation in the UK in August The Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair access.
If you are 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive SRD.
The Companys Articles planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would be of Association provide that it is able to call general meetings other than helpful if you would telephone the venue in advance on 020 7618 5618. annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice and the Company would like to preserve the ability to do so.
The regulation implementing the SRD Enquiries and questions has increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the 21 days except in those cases where shareholders have approved the Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Staff from Equiniti will be on hand to provide advice and assistance.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution.
Under the terms of the SRD, the resolution will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the SRD before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation Your Directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual  and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The Directors will be voting in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own shareholdings.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 111
