BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2009.
The Directors At 24 June 2009, the Company has been informed of the following statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, as required by notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital in accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, is on page 51. the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Ordinary shares held % PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW Schroder Investment Management Ltd 73,138,604 18.59% The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during Standard Life Investments Ltd 24,771,975 6.30% 2008 09, was engaged in the supply of corrugated and plastic packaging Sparinvest Holdings A S 19,992,238 5.08% and of paper, from recycled waste, and the wholesaling of office products.
16,561,204 4.21% A full review of the activities during the financial year ended 30 April 2009 is set out on pages 1 to 35.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Legal & General Group plc 15,711,163 3.99% the Group are discussed on pages 27 to 29.
A discussion of future developments and key performance indicators that management use ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS is set out in the Business Review on page 11.
The principal subsidiary On 2 September 2008 the Group acquired the assets of Vale Paper Limited, a waste paper collection business in the UK for a consideration undertakings are listed in note 32 on page 100. of 1.2 million.
Further deferred consideration of 0.5 million is due The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be 18 months after the acquisition subject to certain performance measures found in the Business Review on pages 1 to 35, which are incorporated being achieved.
in this report by reference.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Group recognises the importance of continuing to invest in research The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members and development.
It is Group policy to develop new product specifications of the Company and no-one else.
The Annual Report contains certain commensurate with environmental needs and packaging solutions required forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance by customers.
Research is also conducted into ways to improve product and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements quality and to find more cost-efficient methods of production and distribution.
involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results Research and development is conducted within divisional operations and and developments to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking expenditure is not significant.
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no DIRECTORS obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this The biographies of the present Directors are on pages 36 and 37.
All the Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors served throughout the year.
MrGMB Adams became Chief Executive of Spicers, the Groups Office Products Wholesaling division, RESULTS FOR THE YEAR on 16 June 2009.
As a result of this appointment he resigned as a The financial results are shown on pages 54 to 106.
As previously announced, Mr J C Nicholls will join the Board with effect from 1 December 2009 DIVIDENDS and MrRECMarton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009.
An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary share was paid on 3 March Other than as previously disclosed in this Report and in respect of existing 2009 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.8p net per ordinary service agreements, no Director, either during or at the end of the financial share, making a total dividend to be paid for the year of 4.4p 2007 08: year, has been materially interested in any significant contract or 8.8p net per ordinary share.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the arrangement in relation to the Groups business.
Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 September 2009, the final dividend will be paid on 15 September 2009 to shareholders on the register at the In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies close of business on 14 August 2009.
The dividends per ordinary share and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Directors disclose stated above are those actually paid or to be paid.
that the rules regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which may SHARE CAPITAL only be amended with shareholder approval in accordance with relevant Details of the authorised and issued share capital and the rights and legislation.
The powers of the Directors are contained in the Companys restrictions attached to the shares, together with details of movements in Memorandum of Association and Articles.
The Articles give the Directors the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 23. powers, subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and buy-back No shares pursuant to the Companys executive share option schemes of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to authority being given were issued between 30 April 2009 and 24 June 2009 inclusive.
The to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The Company annually Company has not utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares seeks the authority of shareholders to authorise the exercise by Directors of granted to it at the 2008 Annual General Meeting but will be seeking to these powers.
renew such authority at this years Meeting.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 49 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The investments of the assets of the defined benefit scheme are managed The Articles require that all Directors who have either been appointed by the on a discretionary basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional Investment Board since the last Annual General Meeting, or for whom the forthcoming Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, Annual General Meeting is the third Annual General Meeting since they Majedie Asset Management Limited, Pacific Investment Management were appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in general meeting, Company and Barclays Global Investors Limited.
The defined contribution retire from office but they are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering members a range of the shareholders.
The Director retiring by rotation at the Annual General investments with AXA Sun Life plc and other external investment fund Meeting on 8 September 2009 is Mr P M Johnson but being eligible, offers managers as selected by the Schemes trustees.
The Group personal himself for re-election.
Formal performance evaluation has confirmed that pension plan is a contract-based arrangement offering members a range the individual performance of the Director offering himself for re-election of investments with Norwich Union Life and other external investment fund has been effective and he has demonstrated commitment to the role.
managers, and the Stakeholder arrangement is provided through Investment Solutions Limited.
All such assets are held independently from the Group.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The trustees of the defined benefit scheme and the defined contribution The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary scheme send an Annual Report to all members of the respective schemes.
shares of 10p each of the Company, including options granted but not The Trustee Company of the defined benefit scheme has an Investment yet exercised under the Performance Share Plan, Long-Term Incentive Sub-Committee, established in line with the recommended guidelines of Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Myners Report.
Peter Murray of Allenbridge Investment Consultants Replacement Deferred Share Bonus Plan, were as shown in the tables on is appointed as an independent adviser to the Investment Sub-Committee pages 45 to 47. of the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES HEALTH AND SAFETY The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote all arrangements for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees and members which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. of the public.
A Health and Safety Policy Statement has been approved by the Board.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS The Group is committed to frequent and effective employee communications SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS to promote the understanding and involvement of all its employees in The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that the Groups business objectives and performance.
Communications take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
and personnel policies have been developed to reflect the philosophy of The Company has a number of borrowing and related derivative facilities operating management.
Information is regularly communicated by briefings provided by various lenders.
These facilities agreements generally include and newsletters.
The Group operates a European Works Council, with change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of ownership representatives drawn from across the entire workforce in the EU countries of the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
in which the Group operates.
Meetings are held to provide an exchange The significant agreements are as set out in note 19.
On 3 March 2005, of transnational information and consultation with employees.
At each the Company, St Regis Paper Company Limited and BPB United Kingdom meeting, presentations are made on the Groups business strategy, financial Limited now part of the Saint-Gobain Group Saint-Gobain entered into results, health and safety and environmental performance.
The Group also a supply agreement for the manufacture and supply of plasterboard liner has a number of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote paper to Saint-Gobain.
Saint-Gobain may terminate the agreement if there information exchange, consultation and representation between the Group is a change of control in the Company.
Business decisions concerning capital investment, employment and training take into account the Groups public and local There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate responsibilities.
The Group supports the involvement of its operations in upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such local community activities.
as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Group as a whole.
The Group is firmly committed to both the principle and realisation of equal opportunities in employment and its policies are designed to provide PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS such equality irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual Although the Company does not follow any formal code or standard on orientation, age or disability.
Every possible step is taken to ensure that payment practice, the Company agrees terms and conditions in the UK individuals are treated equally and fairly.
The Group applies the same with each supplier, which include terms of payment.
The Company pays criteria to people with disabilities as it does to other employees.
Where each supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms and conditions of the appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining is offered to any order being satisfied by such supplier.
As DS Smith Plc is a holding employee who develops a disability during their employment.
company, whose principal business is to hold shares in Group companies, it has no trade creditors.
PENSION FUND The Group had, in the year under review, four UK pension arrangements: CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS one defined benefit scheme which is closed to new employees, one The Group contributed 78,000 2007 08: 72,000 to charities in the defined contribution scheme, one Group personal pension plan and a UK.
No payments were made to political parties.
Donations were made statutory Stakeholder arrangement.
The defined contribution scheme was by operating divisions to support their local communities.
The Group introduced for UK employees joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005. also supported a number of other charities across a range of causes.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING REGISTERED OFFICE The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial From the end of August 2009 the registered office of the Company will statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted change from 4-16 Artillery Row, London SW1P 1RZ to Beech House, Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Whitebrook Park, 68 Lower Cookham Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required SL6 8XY.
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING these financial statements, the Directors are required to: The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 8 September 2009, together with explanations of the Resolutions to be proposed, appears at the back of this Annual Report.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, AUDITORS subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Each Director confirms that: financial statements.
a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that the Companys auditors are unaware: and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the b he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Annual General Meeting.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation By Order of the Board and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
CAROLYN CATTERMOLE We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company Secretary a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 24 June 2009 Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE as a whole: and ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b the management report includes a fair review of the development and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together applicable law and regulations.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial TONY THORNE Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group Chief Executive Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly STEVE DRYDEN prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 Group Finance Director of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 51
