Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in the document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer, so that they can pass them to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Hilton Hotel, Leicester on Thursday 12 November 2009 at 10:30 am at which the following matters will be dealt with: Ordinary business To consider and if thought fit pass the following resolutions as ordinary resolutions: 1.
That the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 4 July 2009 together with the Directors Report, and the Auditors Report on those accounts be received and adopted.
That Geoff Cooper, who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, and being eligible, is offering himself for re-election, be reappointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
That David Stead who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, and being eligible, is offering himself for re-election, be reappointed as an Executive Director of the Company.
That Nick Wharton, who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, and being eligible, is offering himself for election, be appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of 4.0p per share in respect of the year ended 4 July 2009.
That KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditors to the Company and that the Directors be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
That the Directors Remuneration Report be approved.
Special business To consider and if thought fit pass the following resolutions of which the resolution number 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and the resolutions numbered 9, 10 and 11 will be proposed as a special resolution: 8.
That: a in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors be authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares or to convert any securities into shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 665,466 to such persons and on such terms as the Directors may determine: and b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, on 29 December 2010 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked although the Directors may exercise this authority after this date in respect of an offer or agreement made while this authority was in force: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 80 7 of the Companies Act 1985 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
That: a Subject to the passing of resolution 8 above, and in accordance with section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash or by way of a sale of treasury shares pursuant to the previous resolution as if section 561 1 Companies Act 2006 does not apply to the allotment: b the powers under paragraph a shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: i where securities have been offered to holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares subject to any exclusions or other arrangements that the Directors consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements and legal or practical problems under the law of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and ii having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 100,000: c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 29 December 2010 although the Directors may exercise this authority after this date in respect of an offer or agreement made while this authority was in force: and d all previous unutilised authorities under section 95 of the Companies Act shall cease to have effect.
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 54 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 10.
That, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of that section 701 of ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is the lesser of 19,000,000, being approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at 4 July 2009 excluding treasury shares, and 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date of passing of this resolution excluding treasury shares : b the maximum price not including expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days immediately before the day on which the purchase is made and the amount stipulated in the Buy-Back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: and c the minimum price not including expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is 1p per share.
This authority shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 29 December 2010, except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such time.
That a general meeting of the Company other than the Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Biographies of the Directors who are standing for appointment are set out on page 10 and further explanation in relation to the resolutions proposed as Special Business are set out in the Directors Report on page 20.
The Directors consider that all the resolutions put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
By Order of the Board David Stead Company Secretary Fosse Way Syston Leicester LE7 1NF 9 October 2009 Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 55 Notes 1.
Information regarding the meeting, including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Investor Information section of our corporate website http: production.
Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the Annual General Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which is put by a member attending the meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
A member is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote instead of him, using the form in this report.
Only the procedures set out in these notes and the note to the proxy form can be used to appoint a proxy.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the Chairman and give your instructions directly to them.
The vote withheld option is to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
This is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the votes for or against any resolution.
To be valid, a duly completed Form of Proxy must be sent by post, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy, to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZX so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
To change your proxy instructions please submit a new proxy appointment in accordance with the instructions above.
The appointment received last before the cut-off time and date specified above will take precedence.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 does not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
Nominated Persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
The time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting is 6 pm on the day which is two days excluding any non-working days before the time fixed for the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 48 working hours before the time fixed for the Annual General Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual at www.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the Executive Directors service agreements with the Company, the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment and the register of Directors interests will be available for inspection during normal business hours on each business day at the registered office of the Company from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and also at the place of the meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
As at 15 September 2009 the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares consists of 19,954,265 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 15 September 2009 are 19,954,265.
Pursuant to Chapter 5 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 sections 527 to 531, where requested by either: a member or members having a right to vote at the meeting and holding at least 5% of total voting rights of the Company: or at least 100 members have a right to vote at the meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital, the Company must publish on its website, a statement setting out any matter that such members propose to raise at the meeting relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website: it may not require the members making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request: it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors no later than the time the statement is made available on the Companys website: and the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the meeting.
A member wishing to request publication of such a statement on the Companys website must send the request to the Company using one of the following methods: in hard copy form to David Stead, Company Secretary at the Companys registered office: by e-mail to david.
co. uk and be confirmed in writing to the registered office address: or by fax to 0116 2644490 marked for the attention of David Stead and confirmed in writing to the registered office address.
Whichever form of communication is chosen, the request must: either set out the statement in full or, if supporting a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the statement which is being supported: and be received by the Company at least one week before the meeting.
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 56 Notes Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 57 Notes Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 58 Notes
