Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 22 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also the Group and Parent Company financial statements in responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in of the corporate and financial information included on the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU Companys website.
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Responsibility Statement view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the Company and the undertakings included in the consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and b The management report includes a fair review of the prudent: development and performance of the business and the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with position of the Company and the undertakings included in the IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transaction and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking Geoff Cooper Will Adderley such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Chairman Chief Executive assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 15 September 2009 other irregularities.
