ADDRESS IN BLOCK CAPITALS being member s of the above named Company, hereby appoint................................................................................................................................ or failing him the Chairman of the meeting as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at The Hilton Hotel, Leicester on Thursday 12 November 2009 at 10.30 am and at any adjournment of the meeting.
This proxy is in respect of all of the shares registered in my name unless I We have indicated a smaller number of shares in the box below, Please tick here if this appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of more than one proxy please refer to Explanatory Note 2.
Please indicate with an X in the space below how you wish your vote to be cast.
If the form is returned without any indication as to how the proxy shall vote on any particular matter the proxy will vote as he or she thinks fit or abstains from voting at his or her discretion.
On any other business arising at the meeting including any motion to amend a resolution or to adjourn the meeting the proxy will act at his or her discretion.
To receive and approve the Directors Report and the audited accounts for the period ended 4 July 2009 and the report of the auditors 2.
To re-elect Geoff Cooper as a Director 3.
To re-elect David Stead as a Director 4.
To elect Nick Wharton as a Director 5.
To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares of 4.0p per share 6.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration 7.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report Special business 8.
To authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities 9.
To authorise the Directors to allot equity securities for cash 10.
To authorise the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares 11 To hold general meetings on 14 days notice.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name and address of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting the Registrars helpline on 0871 384 2030 or you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
Unless otherwise instructed above, the proxy will exercise his or her discretion both as to how he or she votes and as to whether or not he or she abstains from voting on any resolutions proposed at the meeting.
The vote withheld option is to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
This is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the votes for and against a particular resolution.
To be valid this form duly signed, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the offices of the registrars no later than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
In the case of a corporation this form must be under its Common Seal or otherwise executed in accordance with Section 36A Companies Act 1985 as amended or it must be signed by an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.
Any alterations to this form must be initialled.
In the case of joint holders only one need sign but the names of all joint holders must be stated.
The vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which names stand in the register of members.
For details of how to change your proxy instructions or revoke your proxy appointment please see the notice of meeting.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
SEA 10855 Do not affix Postage Stamps if posting in Gt.
Britain, Channel Islands, or Northern Ireland.
2 Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6ZX Third fold and tuck in First fold Contents Business review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting 01 Highlights 12 Corporate governance report 23 Independent Auditors report 53 Notice of Annual General 02 Chairmans statement 15 Remuneration report 24 Consolidated income statement Meeting 03 Chief Executives review 18 Directors report and business 25 Consolidated balance sheet 59 Form of proxy Advisers 07 Finance Directors review review 26 C onsolidated cash flow 10 Directors 22 Statement of Directors statement responsibilities 27 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 28 Accounting policies 32 Notes to the annual financial statements 44 Parent Company accounts Corporate Brokers UBS Investment Bank Dunelm is a fast growing specialist outand Financial Advisers 1 Finsbury Avenue of-town homewares retailer providing London EC2M 2PP Tel: 020 7567 8000 a comprehensive range of products to a wide customer base, under the brand Oriel Securities Limited 125 Wood Street name Dunelm Mill.
London EC2V 7AN Tel: 020 7710 7600 Legal Advisers Allen & Overy LLP One Bishops Square London E1 6AO Tel: 020 3088 0000 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 1 Waterloo Way Leicester LE1 6LP Tel: 0116 256 6000 Principal Bankers Barclays Bank plc Midlands Corporate Banking PO Box 333 15 Colmore Row Birmingham B3 2WN Tel: 0845 755 5555 Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0871 384 2030 Financial Public Relations Hogarth Partnership Limited No.
1 London Bridge London SE1 9BG Superstores open at 28 June 2008 Superstores opened after 29 June 2008 Tel: 020 7357 9477 Business strategy: These are our key areas of focus Growing the store portfolio Developing the customer offer We are ambitious to continue driving Dunelms growth by rolling We intend to continue to focus on homewares and our Simply out the successful superstore format.
Of the existing 85 Value for Money proposition deep ranges of quality products at superstores as of 15 September 2009, the majority are located in keen prices, with high availability and supported by friendly the Midlands or the North West of England and coverage of many service.
We want to keep strengthening each element of the offer.
parts of the UK is limited.
The opportunity for geographic expansion is therefore very significant.
Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 Dunelm www.
com mill Dunelm Group plc Fosse Way Syston LE7 1NF Tel: 0116 264 4356 Email: investorrelations@dunelm-mill.
co. uk Annual report & accounts 2009 Dunelm Group plc Dunelm mill
