92 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 GLOSSARY Aircraft owned leased at end of period Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end of the period.
Available Seat Kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average fare Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft lease costs, and profit or loss on disposal of aircraft.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including noshows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Return on equity Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders funds.
Revenue The sum of revenue from ticket sales and ancillary revenue.
Revenue passenger kilometres RPK Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
Directors report 01 Overview 56 Accounts Wed like to thank everyone easyJet plc is incorporated as a public who helped to produce 01 2009 Business highlights 56 Independent auditors report limited company and is registered in 02 easyJet at a glance to the members of easyJet plc England with the registered number this report: 3959649. easyJet plcs registered office 04 Chairmans statement 57 Consolidated income statement Mark Adams, Alexandra Barnes, is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, 58 Consolidated balance sheet Angela Bennett, Chris Bennett, Bedfordshire LU2 9PF.
59 Consolidated cash flow statement Andy Berks, Henrietta Boulton, The Directors present the Annual 06 Business review 60 Consolidated statement of recognised report and accounts for the year Hal Calamvokis, Pritesh Dattani, income and expense 06 Strategy and KPIs ended 30 September 2009.
References Chris Gadsden, Andrew Harrison, 61 Notes to the accounts to easyJet, the Group, the Company, 08 Review of strategy Pamela Harrison, Andy Hodges, 88 Company balance sheet we, or our are to easyJet plc or to 16 Chief Executives statement Bruce James, Patrick Johnson, easyJet plc and its subsidiary companies 89 Company cash flow statement 20 Financial review Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, where appropriate.
90 Notes to the Company balance sheet 30 Corporate responsibility Thomas Loizeau, Cath Lynn, Pages 01 to 55, inclusive, of this Annual and cash flow statement Sir David Michels, Captain Jim Pegram, report comprise the Directors report that has been drawn up and presented Giles Pemberton, Alexa Pickersgill, 36 governance in accordance with English company Captain Dave Prior, Tom Smethers, 92 Other information law and the liabilities of the Directors in Andrew Tempest, Rui Vaz Fernandes, 36 Directors profiles connection with that report shall be 92 Glossary Bunmi Williams and all of our employees 38 Executive management team subject to the limitations and restrictions across our network.
40 Corporate governance provided by such law.
44 Shareholder information 45 Report on Directors remuneration 55 Statement of Directors responsibilities This annual report is printed on Revive Pure white silk, this paper is produced from 100% recycled fibre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This report is available at: http: corporate.
aspx Annual report and accounts 2009 Annual report and accounts 2009 Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF www.
