COMPANY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES As at 31 March 2009 Basis of preparation All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash certain financial instruments as described below, and in accordance flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the Profit with UK Company Law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting and Loss Account as they arise.
Cash flow hedge accounting The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or the European Union and are presented on pages 36 to 70. a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly is exempt from the requirement to present its own Profit and in equity.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised Loss Account.
immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial Under Financial Reporting Standard 25, the Company is exempt asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the disclosure requirements of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset Presentation on the grounds that the parent undertaking, or liability.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the Electrocomponents plc, includes the Company in its own published recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative consolidated accounts.
Disclosures are provided in note 20 under gain or loss that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation which comply with the Profit and Loss Account in the same period during which the the disclosure requirements of FRS 25. asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship Investments in subsidiary undertakings but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is are included in the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction of cost and the expected recoverable amount.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Translation of foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference exchange ruling at the date of the transaction for monetary assets between their discounted contractual forward price and their current and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using forward price.
the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and losses on translation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
Fair value hedge accounting The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge Financial instruments exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, Derivative financial instruments holding a small number of interest rate swaps which swap certain The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its fixed rate loans into floating rate.
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of operational and financing activities.
It principally employs forward the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange interest rates.
rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
In addition there are also a small number of interest Pension costs rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
The Company participates in Group operated defined contribution In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does not and defined benefit pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are As allowed by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company is unable classified as follows: to identify its share of the defined benefit schemes underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as though it was defined Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes contribution pension scheme.
The deficit of the scheme is included in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
within the accounts of RS Components Limited.
Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a forecast transaction.
Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the value of the Companys interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 72 Share-based payments The Company operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the Long Term Incentive Option Plan LTIOP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The Profit and Loss Account charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non-market performance related criteria.
All Profit and Loss Account charges relating to options held by members of other Group companies are charged to the appropriate Group company.
The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS 20 Share-Based Payments is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Depreciation No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% Warehouse systems 10%-20% Plant and equipment 10%-20% Mainframe computer equipment 20% Network computer equipment 33% Portable computers 50% Other office equipment 20% Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the period up to the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
Own shares held The Companys own shares held by the Electrocomponents Employee Trust are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees as required by UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 73
