STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of Directors responsibility Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and Parent Company accounts in accordance We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: with applicable law and regulations.
The accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law they liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company are required to prepare the Group accounts in accordance with and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected a whole: and to prepare the Parent Company accounts in accordance with The Directors report includes a fair review of the development UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally and performance of the business and the position of the company Accepted Accounting Practice.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as The Group accounts are required by law and IFRSs as adopted a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance uncertainties that they face.
of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts that references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving Ian Mason, Simon Boddie, a fair presentation.
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director The Parent Company accounts are required by law to give a 29 May 2009 true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company accounts, and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy the Directors are required to: and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial positions, strategy, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply projected costs, plans and objectives for the managements of future them consistently: operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of For the Group accounts, state whether they have been prepared similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend For the Parent Company accounts, state whether applicable UK on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reflected departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given financial statements: and that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking Company will continue in business.
Other than as required by applicable law or the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intentions or obligations position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34
