GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of consolidation These measures are used by the Group for internal reporting Electrocomponents plc the Company is a company domiciled in purposes and employee incentive arrangements.
The terms pension changes reorganisation, headline and free cash flow England.
The Group Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009 are not defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to with similar measures disclosed by other companies.
Likewise, these as the Group and the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity.
measures are not a substitute for GAAP measures of profit or cash flow.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
All subsidiary accounts are made up to 31 March and are included in the Group Revenue Accounts.
Further to the IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Group Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International statement on dispatch when the significant risks and rewards Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU of ownership have been transferred.
Revenue represents the sale adopted IFRS.
The Company Accounts continue to be prepared of goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes and volume in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK discounts.
Freight recharged to customers is included within revenue.
GAAP and details of the Company Accounts, notes to the accounts and principal accounting policies are set out on pages 71 to 80.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income 29 May 2009. and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing Group Accounts.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions Basis of preparation with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the extent of the The accounts are presented in Sterling and rounded to 0.1m.
Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in They are prepared on a going concern basis as referred to in the same way as unrealised gains.
the Directors report on page 22 and on the historical cost basis except certain financial instruments detailed below.
Goodwill and other intangibles Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires been written off against reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions after 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP, that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets was amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated with a maximum of 20 years.
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that results of which form the basis of making the judgements about allows goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent to remain as stated under UK GAAP.
The balance of goodwill as at from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward.
Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS.
Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually Estimates and judgements for impairment.
The preparation of accounts requires management to make Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of amortisation.
The cost of acquired intangible assets are their accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, purchase cost together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: The significant judgements made in the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009 are: Trademarks 5% Computer software costs 12.5%-50% Pensions: the key assumptions and estimates relate to discount rates, inflation rates and increases to salaries and pensions in Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in payment.
These are explained in more detail in note 7. the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is reassessed annually.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands Goodwill: the Groups goodwill principally relates to the acquisition is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
of Allied Electronics Inc. in July 1999.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill relate to future Investments in jointly controlled entities operating performance, cash flows and discount rates.
These are The Group accounts include the Groups share of the total recognised set out in note 11. gains and losses in one jointly controlled entity on an equity accounted basis.
Statement of compliance The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with Property, plant and equipment International Financial Report Standards IFRS as adopted Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and certain direct overheads.
Adjusted measures Profit measures such as operating profit, profit before tax and Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and earnings per share are also presented as being results before rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Each finance pension changes reorganisation income costs or as headline leased asset is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value results.
Similarly a cash flow term: free cash flow, representing and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the the Groups cash flow before financing activities is also disclosed.
inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains at the following annual rates: and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Freehold and leasehold buildings 2% income statement.
Plant and machinery 10%-20% Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it Mainframe computer equipment 20% accrues, using the effective interest method.
The interest expenses Network computer equipment 33% component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income Portable computers 50% statement using the effective interest rate method.
Other office equipment 20% Borrowing cost Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Catalogue costs The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues Impairment are expensed to the income statement when incurred.
Major The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually investments in new catalogue production systems are capitalised to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such as intangible assets and written off over the period during which an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
the benefits of those investments are anticipated, such period An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount not to exceed three years.
of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Operating leases The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on cost of sale and value in use.
The present value of estimated future a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits cash flows is calculated using a pre tax discount rate that reflects of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income current market assessments of the time value of money and the statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for Government grants the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment are credited to the income statement at the same Inventories rate as the depreciation on the asset to which the grants relate.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The unamortised balance of capital grants is included within This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.
Work in progress trade and other payables.
and goods for resale include attributable overheads.
Employee benefits Trade and other receivables Pension costs Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme of their fair value.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for eligible cost using the effective interest rate method.
employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004.
The scheme is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent Net debt of the Groups finances.
In addition there are defined benefit pension schemes in Germany and Ireland.
Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides qualifying financial institutions in current accounts or overnight a defined contribution pension scheme.
There are also defined deposits net of overdrafts with qualifying financial institutions.
Cash contribution schemes in Australia and North America and government and cash equivalents include government securities, investment in schemes in France, Italy, Denmark and North Asia.
Obligations for money market funds and term deposits with qualifying financial contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an institutions.
Borrowings represent term loans from qualifying financial expense in the income statement as incurred.
institutions together with financial instruments classified as liabilities.
The cost of the defined benefit scheme charged to the income statement comprises: current service cost, past service cost, expected Operating expense classification return on scheme assets and the interest cost on the expected Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers.
amount of unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities within Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses.
expenses, including freight costs and movements in inventory The Group has elected to adopt the amendment to IAS 19 revised, provisions, together with the Supply Chain, Product Management, which allows actuarial gains and losses to be recorded in the Media Publishing, Facilities, Information Systems, Electronics and Statement of Recognised Income and Expense immediately.
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit Administration expenses comprise Finance, Legal and Human credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality Resources Process expenses, together with the expenses of corporate bonds.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the the Group Board.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 40 Share-based payment transactions excluded from any future profit or loss on disposal of any entities.
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the The Group adopted this exemption.
largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, A US s423 scheme US employees only, the Long Term Foreign currency transactions Incentive Option Plan LTIOP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate and the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
Details of these are provided ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in note 6 to the Group accounts.
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread over income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are to the options.
The fair values are calculated using an appropriate translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
The income statement charge is then adjusted Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates performance related criteria.
ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses include the cost of the share-based payment schemes and the Group Financial instruments balance sheet includes the assets and liabilities of the schemes.
Derivative financial instruments Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure the schemes, are shown within reserves.
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
It principally employs forward foreign The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates 2, Share-Based Payment, is applied only to awards made after over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
In addition there are also a small number of interest rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are respect of previous years.
classified as follows: Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated using tax rates with a forecast transaction.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to or the deferred tax liability is settled.
changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods temporary differences can be utilised.
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash Foreign currency flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the Financial statements of foreign operations income statement as they arise.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at Cash flow hedge accounting foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised Net investment in foreign operations immediately in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity equity.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition differences prior to the date of transition 1 April 2004 do not need to of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed cumulative translation that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the income statement in the same period during which the asset acquired or differences at this date can be set to nil.
Thus, any cumulative translation differences arising prior to the date of transition are liability assumed affects the income statement.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised, effective exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, revised standard aims to enhance the usefulness of information the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is presented in the financial statements including the introduction recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction of a new statement of comprehensive income that combines all occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss together the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is with other comprehensive income.
The adoption of the revised recognised immediately in the income statement.
standard will not affect the results or net assets of the Group as it is only concerned with presentation and disclosures.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference between their discounted contractual forward price and their current IFRS 2 amendment Share based payments deals with vesting forward price.
The Group will apply IFRS 2 amendment from 1 April 2009.
It is not expected to have a Fair value hedge accounting material impact on the Groups current financial statements.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on defined benefit asset, minimum to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, holding a small funding requirements and their interaction.
If the interpretation number of interest rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans was applied to the current reporting period, there would be no into floating rate.
material impact on the Income Statement or Retained Earnings The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of at the year end.
the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
All loans due within more than one year not accounted for under fair value hedge accounting are held at amortised cost, which approximates to fair value as interest repricing takes place on a regular basis.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in accounting policies The following standard and changes to existing standards and interpretations that have been enacted, and have an impact on these accounts are: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes.
This has no material impact on the Group accounts.
The following standard and changes to existing standards and interpretations that have been endorsed, but the Group has decided not to early adopt are: IFRS 8 Operating Segments is applicable for years commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires an entity to report segment information on the same basis as that reported to management for decision making purposes.
The adoption of this standard will impact on the Groups segmental disclosures.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42
