Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting Resolution 5 Auditors reappointment of the Company to be held on Thursday, The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be 21 January 2010 is set out on pages 124 to 129 appointed at each general meeting at which accounts of the annual report and accounts.
The following are laid, to hold office until the next such meeting.
notes provide an explanation as to why the The resolution seeks shareholder approval for the resolutions set out in the notice are to be put to reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
Committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, further information Resolutions 1 to 7 are ordinary resolutions.
These on which can be found in the annual report and resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the accounts on page 25.
After considering relevant votes cast for or against are in favour.
information the Audit Committee recommended to the Board of directors that Ernst & Young LLP be Resolution 1 Laying of Accounts reappointed.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to present to the shareholders of the Company Resolution 6 Auditors remuneration at a general meeting the reports of the directors and This resolution gives the directors the authority to auditor, and the audited accounts of the Company, determine the remuneration of the auditors for the for the year ended 30 September 2009.
The report audit work to be carried out by them in the next of the directors and the audited accounts have been financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to approved by the directors, and the report of the the auditor for the next financial year will be disclosed auditor has been approved by the auditors, and a in the next audited accounts of the Company.
copy of each of these documents may be found in the annual report and accounts, starting at page 9.
Resolution 7 Authority to the directors to allot shares Resolution 2 Remuneration Report The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company may only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to seek shareholder approval for the Directors to do so.
Resolution 7 will, if passed, authorise the Remuneration Report at the general meeting before directors to allot the Companys unissued shares up which the Companys annual accounts are laid.
The to a maximum nominal amount of 8,432,113.96, Directors Remuneration Report is included in the which represents an amount which is approximately annual report and accounts, starting at page 29.
If equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital shareholders vote against the report the directors will of the Company as at 3 December 2009 excluding still be paid, but the Remuneration Committee will treasury shares, the latest practicable date prior to reconsider its policy.
the publication of the notice.
Resolutions 3 and 4 Reappointment of Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend The Companys articles of association require that any director who was not appointed or reappointed at either of the last two Annual General Meetings before this meeting must retire, although they may offer themselves for reappointment.
Accordingly, Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend are retiring and seeking reappointment.
Biographical information for Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend is shown on pages 7 and 8 of the annual report and accounts.
Details of why the Board believes they should be reappointed are included in the directors report in the annual report and accounts, starting at page 9.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 129 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 129 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting As provided in paragraph a of the resolution, up to Resolutions 8, 9, 10 and 11 are special half of this authority equal to one-third of the issued resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed ordinary share capital of the Company will enable if not less than 75% of the votes cast for and directors to allot and issue new shares in whatever against are in favour.
manner subject to pre-emption rights they see fit.
Resolution 8 Partial disapplication of statutory Paragraph b of the resolution provides that the pre-emption rights remainder of the authority equal to a further one-third The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company Company issues new shares for cash or sells any may only be used in connection with a rights issue treasury shares, it must first offer them to existing in favour of ordinary shareholders.
As paragraph a shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
imposes no restrictions on the way the authority may It is proposed that the directors be authorised to be exercised, it could be used in conjunction with issue shares for cash and or sell shares from treasury paragraph b so as to enable the whole two-thirds up to an aggregate nominal amount of 694,971.78 authority to be used in connection with a rights representing approximately 5% of the Companys issue.
Where usage of the authority exceeds the oneissued ordinary share capital as at 3 December 2009, third threshold in the circumstances set out in the the latest practicable date prior to the publication of guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers the notice without offering them to shareholders first, the ABI the directors will stand for re-election at and to modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal the following AGM, to the extent required by the ABI.
with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may The authority will expire at the earlier of the date arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
that is fifteen months after the date of the passing of If resolution 8 is passed, this authority will expire at the resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual the same time as the authority to allot shares given General Meeting of the Company.
Passing resolution 7 will ensure that the directors The directors consider this authority necessary continue to have the flexibility to act in the best in order to give them flexibility to deal with interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions issuing new shares.
There are no current plans to issue contained in the resolution.
new shares except in connection with employee share schemes.
As at 3 December 2009, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice, the Company had 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each in issue and held 50,000,000 treasury shares, which is equal to approximately 9.88% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
130 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 130 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 Purchase of own shares by the As at 3 December 2009, the latest practicable Company date prior to the publication of the notice, options If passed this resolution will grant the Company were outstanding over 16,590,519 ordinary shares authority for a period of up to 15 months after the of 2 pence each in the Company, representing date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares approximately 3.28% of the issued share capital of in the market.
The resolution limits the number the Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
of shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the If the proposed market purchase authority were used Companys issued share capital excluding treasury in full, shares over which options were outstanding shares as at 3 December 2009, the latest practicable would, as at that date, represent approximately 3.86% date prior to the publication of the notice.
The price of the Companys issued share capital excluding per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at treasury shares.
a minimum amount excluding expenses of 2 pence Resolution 10 Amending the Articles of per ordinary share and a maximum amount excluding Association expenses of the higher of: i 5% over the average The Company is proposing to remove its objects clause of the previous five days middle market prices: and together with all other provisions of its Memorandum ii the higher of the price of the last independent of Association which, by virtue of the Companies Act trade and the highest current independent bid on the 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
This Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Part authority will only be exercised if market conditions a of resolution 10 effects the removal of these make it advantageous to do so.
The Companies Act 2006 also abolishes The directors present intention is that shares the requirement for a company to have an authorised purchased pursuant to this authority will be cancelled share capital.
One consequence of part a of resolution immediately on purchase.
Alternatively, the shares 10 is that the statement of the Companys authorised may be held in treasury, sold for cash or provided share capital imported from the Memorandum is Listing Rule requirements are met transferred prevented from continuing to form part of the Articles to an employee share scheme.
The effect of any of Association and operating as a limit on future issues cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares of shares.
Part b of resolution 10 deletes provisions in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, from the Companys Articles of Association that refer shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for to authorised share capital.
The directors will still be example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank limited as to the number of shares they can at any time for dividends.
The directors will only make purchases allot because an allotment authority continues to be under this authority if they believe that to do so would required under the Companies Act 2006: an allotment result in an increased earnings per share and would authority is proposed in resolution 7. be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 131 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 131 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 11 Approving the notice period for General Meetings Following the introduction of new rules on 3 August 2009 to implement the Shareholder Rights Directive, in order to maintain its ability to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice, the Company must offer all shareholders the opportunity to appoint a proxy electronically via the website of the Company or its Registrars and must obtain the approval of its shareholders by means of a special resolution passed each year.
It is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed at future Annual General Meetings.
132 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 132 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 HINGE & GUTTER AREA NO WORK IN THIS SPACE The Yorkshire Puddin Despite the challenging market, more award-winning Enterprise licensees were recognised during the year for the quality of their businesses and their outstanding entrepreneurial skills: The Yorkshire Puddin, Dewsbury Dewsbury Reporter Annual Business Awards for 2008 Entrepreneur of the Year, Business in the Community Award Paul Bennetts list of local award winning achievements continues to grow.
Although the pub is primarily known for its food, it hosts large fund-raising events and now runs its own football team, Puddin FC.
Bell & Cross Bell & Cross, Holy Cross Good Pub Guide 2010 Friday Street Farm, Eastbourne Friday Street Farm Pub of the Year MA Great British Pub Awards 2009 The nineteenth-century Worcestershire Best Managed Pub, Finalist inn is run by licensees Jo and Roger Under the guidance of manager Paul Giles and Narbutt Roger is the England football deputy Paul Worman, multiple operator Whiting and squads official chef.
Hammond have completely refurbished the Farm to restore the character, history and soul of the pub.
Their Everything at this charming place emphasis is on high-quality home cooked food and makes sure you come away feeling The Fox & Hounds real ales, with a constant stream of special events.
youve had a really special time: super food, staff with a can-do attitude, a The Fox & Hounds, Felpham delightful old interior and pretty garden.
MA Great British Pub Awards 2009 With its strong sense of individuality Creative Outdoor Area, Finalist and must-come-again appeal, the Bell In their three years at the Fox, Andy and Alison Hirons have continually invested & Cross at Holy Cross is PUB OF THE in and developed their outside areas to attract new customers.
Source: Good Pub Guide recently added a hidden garden to cater for noisier children!
The White Horse Contents Financial Highlights 1 Chairmans Statement 2 Chief Executives Review incorporating the Business Review 3 Directors and Advisers 7 Directors Report 9 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 20 Corporate Governance 21 The White Horse, Ramsden Heath Directors Remuneration Report 29 MA Great British Pub Awards 2009 Group Income Statement 40 Pub of the Year East Anglia, Best Creative Outdoor Area East Anglia Since September 2007, when multi award-winning couple Steve and Jo Haslam added the White Horse to their Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 41 growing portfolio of pubs, they have transformed this Grade II listed building to include an alfresco dining area Group Balance Sheet 42 which has seating capacity for 300 diners.
Group Cash Flow Statement 43 Notes to the Group Accounts 44 Butchers Arms Independent Auditors Report Group 87 Butchers Arms, Hepworth The Telegraph Inn Ye Olde Rose and Crown CAMRA Best Real Ale Awards 2009 Five Year Record 89 MA Great British Pub Awards 2009 Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 91 Best Newcomer Chef of the Year Telegraph Inn, New Brighton Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 92 Yorkshire Wirral Pub of the Year Balance Sheet 93 Licensees Tim and Adele Bilton have Winner Cash Flow Statement 94 quickly built a strong reputation at Lessee Geoffrey Rees and managers Anna-Maria Notes to the Company Accounts 95 the Butchers Arms.
Having worked Nelson and Karen Dewhurst Statement of Directors Responsibilities 119 previously with Raymond Blanc, Tim Independent Auditors Report Company 120 has now earned the title of Yorkshires Ye Olde Rose and Crown, Walthamstow Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders 122 Chef of the Year 2009.
East London & City Financial Calendar 122 Finalist Shareholder Information 123 Lessees Vivienne Barrett, Panikos Constantinou, Notice of Annual General Meeting 124 Joanna Barrett Constantinou, Andrew Yon and Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM 129 Aaron Clingham Nags Head Front cover pictures top to bottom Nags Head, Walthamstow East London & City The Swan, High Wycombe Runner-Up The Floating Bridge, Dartmouth Lessees Susan Parsons and Roger Carter The Bell, Nr Frome The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17092EnterpriseCVR.
