Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice is important and requires your Companies Act 2006 in connection with immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt an offer or issue by way of rights, open for about the action you should take, you should acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, immediately consult your stockbroker, bank to holders of ordinary shares other than manager, solicitor, accountant or other the Company on the register on any record independent financial adviser duly authorised date fixed by the directors in proportion under the Financial Services and Markets as nearly as may be to the respective Act 2000. number of ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions The 2010 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise or other arrangements as the directors may Inns plc the Company will be held at the deem necessary or expedient in relation to offices of the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, fractional entitlements, legal or practical Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. problems arising in any overseas territory, the on 21 January 2010 for the following purposes: requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, Ordinary Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following such authority to expire unless renewed, varied resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary or revoked by the Company in general meeting resolutions: on the earlier of fifteen months from the date 1.
To receive the directors report and the audited this resolution is passed and the conclusion of accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009 the Annual General Meeting of the Company to and the auditors report on the accounts.
be held in 2011, except that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report for which would or might require relevant securities the year ended 30 September 2009. to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such 3.
To reappoint Mr D A Harding as a director.
offer or agreement as if such authority had not 4.
To reappoint Mr W S Townsend as a director.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Special Resolutions Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
resolutions, which will be proposed as special resolutions: 6.
To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & Young LLPs remuneration as auditor of the 8.
To empower the directors pursuant to section Company.
570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of that 7.
To authorise the directors generally and Act for cash pursuant to the general authority unconditionally pursuant to section 551 of the conferred on them by resolution 7 above and or Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for of the Company to allot shares in the Company cash pursuant to section 727 of that Act, in each or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any case as if section 561 1 of that Act did not apply security into shares in the Company together to any such allotment or sale, provided that this relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal power shall be limited to: amount of 8,432,113.96 comprising: a any such allotment and or sale of equity a an aggregate nominal amount of securities in connection with an offer or issue 4,216,056.98 whether in connection with by way of rights or other pre-emptive offer or the same offer or issue as under b below or issue, open for acceptance for a period fixed otherwise : and by the directors, to holders of ordinary shares b an aggregate nominal amount of other than the Company on the register 4,216,056.98, in the form of equity securities on any record date fixed by the directors within the meaning of section 560 1 of the 124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 124 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Notice of Annual General Meeting in proportion as nearly as may be to the which it purchases that share: and ii the price respective number of ordinary shares deemed stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and to be held by them, subject to such exclusions Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003. or other arrangements as the directors may This authority shall expire fifteen months after the deem necessary or expedient in relation to date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, fractional entitlements, legal or practical at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting problems arising in any overseas territory, the of the Company to be held in 2011, except that requirements of any regulatory body or stock the Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and shares under this authority before it expires, b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise complete the purchase wholly or partly after this than pursuant to paragraph a above, of equity authority expires.
securities having an aggregate nominal value 10.
To amend the Articles of Association by a or, in the case of other equity securities, deleting all the provisions of the Companys giving the right to subscribe for or convert Memorandum of Association which, by virtue into relevant shares having an aggregate of the Companies Act 2006 are to be treated as nominal amount, not exceeding the sum of provisions of the Articles of Association: and b 694,971.78. deleting Articles 5 and 46.1.
1 of the Articles of This authority shall expire, unless previously Association.
revoked or renewed by the Company in general 11.
To authorise the directors to call a general meeting, at such time as the general authority meeting of the Company, other than an Annual conferred on the directors by resolution 7 above General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear days expires, except that the Company may at any time notice.
before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to The directors believe that the proposals in be allotted or equity securities held as treasury resolutions 1 to 11 are in the best interests of shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors shareholders as a whole and they unanimously may allot equity securities and or sell equity recommend that you vote in favour of all the securities held as treasury shares in pursuance resolutions.
of such an offer or agreement as if the power On behalf of the Board conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market Company Secretary purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the 4 December 2009 Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 2 Registered office: pence each provided that in doing so it: 3 Monkspath Hall Road a purchases no more than 75,846,017 ordinary Solihull shares of 2 pence each in aggregate: West Midlands B90 4SJ b pays not less than 2 pence excluding expenses per ordinary share of 2 pence Registered in England and Wales No.
2562808 each: and c pays a price per share that is not more excluding expenses per ordinary share than the higher of i 105% above the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before the day on Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 125 17092ENTERPRI.
A member who is an individual is entitled to PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, attend, speak and vote at the meeting or to BS99 6ZY.
appoint one or more other persons as his proxy 3.
You will need to state clearly on each proxy to exercise all or any of his rights on his behalf.
form the number of shares in relation to which Further details of how to appoint a proxy, and the proxy is appointed.
A failure to specify the the rights of proxies, are given in the paragraphs number of shares each proxy appointment relates below.
A member that is a company can appoint to or specifying a number of shares in excess of one or more corporate representatives such as those held by the member will result in the proxy a director or employee of the company whose appointment being invalid.
attendance at the meeting is treated as if the company were attending in person, or it can 4.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such appoint one or more persons as its proxy to instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as exercise all or any of its rights on its behalf.
In described in paragraph 11 below will not prevent each case, a person attending the meeting will a shareholder attending the Annual General need to provide the Company or its Registrars, Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes Computershare Investor Services PLC, with to do so.
evidence of their identity and, if applicable, 5.
In the case of joint holders, where more than their appointment as a proxy or corporate one of the joint holders purports to appoint a representative with authority to vote on behalf of proxy, only the appointment submitted by the a member.
most senior holder will be accepted.
A shareholder may appoint more than one determined by the order in which the names of proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting the joint holders appear in the Companys register provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise of members in respect of the joint holding the the rights attached to a different share or shares first-named being the most senior.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a shareholder of the Company.
To appoint a a person nominated under section 146 of the proxy or proxies shareholders must complete: Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, together a Nominated Person may, under an agreement with the power of attorney or other authority between him her and the shareholder by whom if any under which it is signed, or a notarially he she was nominated, have a right to be certified copy of such authority, to the Companys appointed or to have someone else appointed Registrars, Computershare Investor Services as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment BS99 6ZY: or b a CREST Proxy Instruction as right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, set out in paragraph 11 below : or c an online under any such agreement, have a right to give proxy appointment at www.
instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise com you will need to enter the Control Number, of voting rights.
together with your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number printed on your personalised 7.
The statement of the rights of shareholders form of proxy, in each case so that it is received in relation to the appointment of proxies in no later than 11.00 a. m. on 19 January 2010.
To paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above does not apply to appoint more than one proxy, you will need to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these complete a separate proxy form in relation to each paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders appointment.
A personalised form of proxy for use of the Company.
in connection with the Annual General Meeting is 8.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated enclosed with this document.
If you do not have Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives a personalised form of proxy and believe that you notice that only those shareholders included in should, please contact the Companys Registrars, the register of members of the Company at Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 126 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 126 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Notice of Annual General Meeting 6.00 p. m. on 19 January 2010 or, if the meeting is the time of receipt will be taken to be the time adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. as determined by the timestamp applied to the on the day which is two days before the day of message by the CREST Applications Host from any adjourned meeting, will be entitled to attend which the Companys agent is able to retrieve and to vote at the Annual General Meeting in the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner respect of the number of shares registered in their prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change names at that time.
Changes to entries on the of instructions to proxies appointed through share register after 6.00 p. m. on 19 January 2010, CREST should be communicated to the appointee or, if the meeting is adjourned, in the register of through other means.
members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is two 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should be disregarded in determining the rights of any note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not person to attend or vote at the Annual General make available special procedures in CREST for Meeting.
As at 9.00 a. m. on 3 December 2009, the and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation Companys issued share capital comprised to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to Each ordinary share carries the right to one take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal vote at a general meeting of the Company and, member, or sponsored member, or has appointed therefore, the total number of voting rights in the any voting service provider s, to procure that his Company as at 9.00 a. m. on 3 December 2009 is CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s 555,977,435. such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy system by any particular time.
In this connection, or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy CREST members and, where applicable, their appointment service may do so for the Annual CREST sponsors or voting service providers are General Meeting and any adjournment s of the referred, in particular, to those sections of the meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of CREST Manual available via www.
com the CREST system and timings.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members 13.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 who have appointed a service provider s, members meeting the threshold requirements set should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting out in that section have the right to require the service provider s, who will be able to take the Company to publish on a website a statement appropriate action on their behalf.
setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction report and the conduct of the audit that are to made using the CREST service to be valid, the be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy ii any circumstance connected with an auditor Instruction must be properly authenticated in of the Company ceasing to hold office since the accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds previous meeting at which annual accounts and specifications, and must contain the information reports were laid in accordance with section required for such instruction, as described in 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless may not require the shareholders requesting any of whether it constitutes the appointment of such website publication to pay its expenses a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the given to a previously appointed proxy must, Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be required to place a statement on a website received by the Companys agent ID 3RA50, by under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments it must forward the statement to the Companys set out in paragraph 2 above.
For this purpose, auditor not later than the time when it makes Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 127 17092ENTERPRI.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in the Company, please forward this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The service agreements of the executive directors and copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays at the registered office of the Company and will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice, or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
com 128 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
