BUsiness cORpORate financial OVeRVieW ReVieW GOVeRnance statements Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation Amendment to IFRS 2: Share based payments The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International The definition of vesting conditions in the standard has been Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union amended to clarify that vesting conditions are limited to service EU in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than adopted IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 service or performance conditions are considered to be nonapplicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
This amendment did not have a significant impact on the elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accounting for existing share option schemes.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 103 to 106.
The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group: The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives and retirement benefit IFRS 3 2009 : Business combinations IFRS 3 effective for obligations which are stated at fair value.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 The preparation of financial statements that conform with This standard and its amendments widen the scope of IFRS adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that 3 2004 and impact the way that business combinations affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of are accounted for including the treatment of contingent the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and consideration and transaction costs.
The Group will consider the expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates implication of the revised IFRS 3 standard when assessing the are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, accounting for any potential future acquisitions.
event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
Amendment to IAS 27 2008 : Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 1 July 2009 ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods This addresses the accounting for changes in ownership interests if relevant.
in a subsidiary and is not expected to have a significant impact upon the Group although during 2009 the Group applied the The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial principles of IAS 27 2008 in accounting for the acquisition of the statements are detailed below.
These policies have been minority interest in FractureCode Corporation ApS see note 23. consistently applied to all periods presented.
All other standards and interpretations recently adopted by the The following standards were adopted by the Group during EU not discussed above did not have or are not expected to have the year: a significant impact on the Group.
Amendment to IAS 38: Intangible assets For the purposes of these financial statements Filtrona or the Group means Filtrona plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
The amendment clarified that all marketing and production costs associated with promotional activities, such as the Groups The results for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been catalogue costs, should be recognised in the income statement restated on a continuing basis following the disposal of Filtrona when access is received to those goods.
The Groups previous Extrusion see note 24. accounting policy had been to treat these costs as an expense when the catalogues were distributed to customers.
This The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a change in accounting policy has been applied retrospectively, going concern basis the statement of which can be found on decreasing net assets by 0.5m and 0.2m at 31 December 2008 page 69. and 31 December 2007 respectively.
The impact on the income statement in 2008 was to reduce operating profit by 0.4m and b Basis of consolidation income tax expense by 0.1m.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Filtrona.
Control exists when IFRS 8: Operating segments Filtrona has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic This standard contains requirements for the disclosure of benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries information about an entitys operating segments and also are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas that control commences until the date that control ceases.
in which it operates and its major customers.
The standard is concerned only with disclosure and replaces IAS 14: Segment ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation reporting.
In accordance with IFRS 8, the Group has revised its Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or operating segments as shown in note 2. income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 1 Revised : Presentation of financial statements c Foreign currency This only impacted the Groups presentation of its financial Items included in the consolidated financial statements of the results and did not effect reported profits or total equity.
Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling functional currency of the parent company.
75 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I financial statements Accounting Policies continued i Foreign currency transactions impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet f Depreciation date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedge estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the accounting criteria apply see policy for derivatives.
following annual rates: ii Financial statements of foreign operations Freehold land Not depreciated The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated Plant and machinery 720% into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 1033% The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates.
The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the g Leases opening balances of overseas entities are taken to reserves, as Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
to the extent that they are effective.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Differences arising prior to h Intangible assets 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
d Financial instruments In accordance with IAS 39: Financial instruments: recognition Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For and measurement IAS 39, derivatives are measured initially acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill at fair value.
The subsequent measurement depends on the represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and fair classification of the derivative.
Interest bearing loans and value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives of the acquiree.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge fair value of the assets given plus costs directly attributable to accounting relationship.
See note 15 for separate disclosure of the acquisition.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, hedge types.
goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
i Fair value hedges Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange ii Research and development exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year on the derivative is recognised in the income statement.
in which they are incurred.
ii Cash flow hedges Development costs relating to new products are capitalised if the Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash new product is technically and commercially feasible.
All other flow hedge the change in fair value is recognised in equity to the development costs are recognised in the income statement and extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised expensed as incurred.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised iii Other intangible assets in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item results in a nonrecognised to the extent it is probable that the expected future financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the recognised in equity are included in the initial carrying value Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
assets principally relate to customer relationships which were valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations attrition rates and developed technology which was valued using The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net an income approach.
The cost of intangible assets is amortised investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is through the income statement on a straight line basis over the recognised in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in estimated useful economic life.
i impairment e Property, plant and equipment All assets, except intangible assets, deferred tax assets and Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less inventories, are reviewed annually to determine whether there is accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously any indication of impairment.
Goodwill and intangible assets with revalued properties were treated as being held at deemed cost indefinite lives are tested annually.
If an indication of impairment upon transition to adopted IFRS.
exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its for as separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement.
76 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUsiness cORpORate financial OVeRVieW ReVieW GOVeRnance statements Value in use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted q Revenue using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Groups weighted Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income average cost of capital.
statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
No revenue is recognised j Inventories if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out consideration due, associated expenses or the possible return basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished of goods.
goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
r Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised in the income k Cash and cash equivalents statement as it accrues.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the s Segment reporting date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are an integral part of Filtronas cash management and are included as regularly reviewed by the Group Operating Committee in order to part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance.
l Loans and borrowings t Pensions Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost which is i Defined contribution schemes equal to fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the ii Defined benefit schemes income statement over the term of the borrowings.
The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
m Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables carrying value is estimated as the The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in n Trade and other payables return for their service in the current and prior periods: that Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated o Catalogue costs bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of The costs associated with the production and printing of Filtronas obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full p Income tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity.
cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments.
The expected increase in the present value Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income of scheme liabilities is included within finance expense and for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the expected return on scheme assets is included within the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in finance income.
u Share-based payments Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability Filtrona operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
A method, on temporary differences arising between the tax charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the option awards using the Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo or binomial financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not valuation models as appropriate with a corresponding increase in provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting the period between grant and vesting date of the options.
The nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates options that fail to vest because market-based conditions are that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or not met.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
