financial statements Accounting Policies continued v One-off items in the consolidated income statement x Provisions The costs below are separately identified by virtue of their size A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or and incidence.
They are shown as a separate line item within constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable operating profit on the face of the income statement in order estimate can be made of the outflow of resources that will be for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial required to settle the obligation.
The outflow is the present value information and performance.
These costs exclude amortisation of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to of acquired intangible assets which are also presented separately settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
y Net debt i Exceptional acquisition fees Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest In 2009 and 2008, Filtrona withdrew from significant potential bearing loans and borrowings.
acquisitions at an advanced stage and had to expense 1.9m 2008: 1.3m of professional adviser fees which would otherwise z Dividends have been treated as part of the consideration for the acquisition.
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend ii Major restructuring costs or paid interim dividend.
The major restructuring of Filtronas operations in 2009 gave rise to considerable incremental one-off costs.
The most significant aa Discontinued operations component of these restructuring costs was redundancy In 2009 Filtrona disposed of Filtrona Extrusion and this is payments.
Filtrona views significant restructuring costs as an classified as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5: expense associated with investment in the future performance of Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations on the the business and not part of the trading performance.
basis that it represented a separate major line of business.
The profit after tax of Filtrona Extrusion, including loss on disposal, w Investment in own shares is disclosed as a single line item in the income statement and The shares held in the Filtrona Employee Benefit Trust for the similarly the cash flows are also disclosed as a single line item in purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans each of the categories in the statement of cash flows.
are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares is also deducted from retained earnings.
Critical Accounting Policies The following provides information on those policies that Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
management considers critical because of the level of judgement Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and and estimation required which often involves assumptions assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
prospects which are inherently subjective.
The Directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair iii Taxation view of Filtronas performance and financial position.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in i Pensions each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is also Filtrona accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together accordance with IAS 19 Revised.
The application of IAS 19 with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a Revised requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
assumptions used see note 18 and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes.
In consultation with Filtronas iv Provisions actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges Filtronas provisions are managements best estimate of that most appropriately reflects Filtronas circumstances.
Small exposure in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact obligation as a result of a past event, based on currently available on valuations.
By their nature these provisions are judgemental.
ii Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet.
