cORpORatE GOVERNaNcE Group Operating Committee 1 5 2 6 3 7 4 8 44 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSINESS cORpORatE FINaNcIaL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNaNcE StatEMENtS 1.
Rob purcell Chief Executive Divisional Managing Director Protection & The biographical details of Mark Harper are shown on page 47.
Finishing Products Rob Purcell joined the Moss business in 1996 from Low and 2.
Steve crummett Bonar where he had been managing director of their technical Group Finance Director textiles business.
Rob became responsible for the entire The biographical details of Steve Crummett are shown on Protection & Finishing Products division in 2003.
Rob has page 47. been a Trustee of Filtrona Pension Schemes for a number of years.
Jon Green Company Secretary & General Counsel 6.
Russ Rogers Jon Green, a solicitor, joined Filtrona in March 2005 and Divisional President Porous Technologies was appointed Company Secretary in July 2005.
Prior to Russ Rogers joined the Company with the acquisition of Filtrona, he worked as an in-house lawyer for several large the American Filtrona Corporation in September 1997 and international businesses, including Unilever and Hays plc.
Jon performed increasingly important roles in engineering, is a member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of the logistics, purchasing and manufacturing before being Risk Management Committee.
4. alan tidy 7. tony Edwards Director of Group Human Resources Divisional Managing Director Coated & Security Products Alan Tidy joined Filtrona as Director of Group Human Tony Edwards was previously Finance Director of the Filtrona Resources in 2005.
He was previously group HR director at business area within Bunzl and was appointed to his current Wagon plc and prior to that held divisional HR roles within role in 2002.
Prior to that he was Finance Director of the Caradon plc and Rio Tinto plc.
Alan is a member of the Payne business when it was bought from Norcros plc in 1996.
Executive Committee and Chairman of Filtronas UK Pension Tony is a Chartered Accountant having qualified with Price Trustee Boards and the Filtrona Group Health, Safety and Waterhouse in 1988, after which he worked for Rio Tinto plc.
He is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
8. p t Sreekumar Divisional Managing Director Filter Products PT Sreekumar joined Filtrona from Godfrey Philips, an Indian tobacco company, in 1995.
Sreekumar was initially responsible for the Indian joint venture within Filtrona.
In 2002 he was appointed as Regional Director for Asia Pacific responsible for the business in Asia and the Middle East before moving into his current role early in 2005.
