ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 110 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended Act 2006 31 December 2009 which comprise the Balance Sheet and related In our opinion: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Practice.
2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors year for which the parent company financial statements are As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors prepared is consistent with the parent company financial Responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for statements.
the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility Matters on which we are required to report by exception is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing opinion: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 received from branches not visited by us: or of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We the parent company financial statements and the part of the do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is agreement with the accounting records and returns: or shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law agreed by our prior consent in writing.
are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the consolidated financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to year ended 31 December 2009. the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Charles Joseland Senior Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall for and on behalf of  LLP presentation of the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Opinion on financial statements 12 April 2010 In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
