ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC the Company was incorporated and registered under the laws of England and Wales on 8 December 2006.
The address of the Companys registered office is 16 St. Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups interest in a joint venture and associates.
The accounting policies used in preparing these consolidated financial statements financial statements are described below and are based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU, the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority FSA, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation.
These standards are subject to interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC.
These consolidated financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also necessitates management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2.
The financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 except where new policies have been applied.
New accounting policies and pronouncements and the effects of these policies have been outlined in note 3. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities, generally accompanying, directly or indirectly, an interest of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company acquisition date and are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
The Group has elected to use the equity method to account for interests in jointly controlled entities, which are disclosed as joint ventures in the financial statements and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of postaquisition movements in reserves is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
d Minority interests Minority interests are that part of the profit or loss and of the net assets, which are attributable to interests which are not owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.
Minority interests form a separate component of the Groups equity.
The Group has adopted the parent company method and applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Gains or losses arising from disposals of minority interests are recorded in the income statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
e Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in that associate the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 64 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
f Functional and presentational currency All amounts in these financial statements are presented in millions of US$, unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency of the significant operating entities is either the Kazakhstani tenge KZT or the Russian rouble RUB, whilst for the Sales and Marketing entities it is the US dollar US$.
The functional currency for major entities in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
The following additional factors are considered in determining the functional currency of a foreign operation: Whether the activities of the foreign operation are carried out as an extension of the reporting entity, rather than being carried out with a significant degree of autonomy.
Whether transactions with the reporting entity are a high or a low proportion of the foreign operations activities.
Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation directly affect the cash flows of the reporting entity and are readily available for remittance to it.
Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation are sufficient to service existing and normally expected debt obligations without funds being made available by the reporting entity.
The functional currency for the Company is the US$.
The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Kazakhstani tenge, expressed in Kazakhstani tenge per US$1.00.
Rate Period Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2009 148.46 147.50 Year ended 31 December 2008 120.77 120.30 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Russian rouble, expressed in Russian roubles per US$1.00.
Rate Period Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2009 33.06 31.42 Year ended 31 December 2008 29.38 24.86 g Foreign currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
h Translation from functional to presentational currency The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the date of acquisition.
When a subsidiary is disposed of through sale, liquidation, repayment of share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity, the exchange differences deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 65 1.
Principal accounting policies continued i Revenue recognition A significant portion of production is sold under contracts of sale of goods.
Revenue from sales of goods is only recognised on individual shipments when persuasive evidence exists that the following criteria are satisfied: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer.
If it is arranged that the goods are transported to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
The revenue from sales of many products is subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of the quantity quality of the product.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of quantity quality of the product is recorded in revenue once they have been determined: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has been retained: the amount of revenue and respective costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably: and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group.
Revenues from sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to the stage of completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual services provided, as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the fair value of goods or services received in a barter transaction involving dissimilar items cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or service given up.
Revenues are shown net of VAT and discounts.
j Finance income and cost Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains and income on investment and trading securities.
Finance cost comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest expense from the unwinding of the discount on provisions for asset retirement obligations and losses on the revaluation and disposal of investments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Finance income and cost include foreign exchange gains and losses that relate mainly to loans receivable, borrowings, term deposits more than three months.
Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time proportion basis, using the effective interest method.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of financial expenses unless incurred on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment in which case they are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
k Income tax The income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In that case, tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Kazakhstani Excess Profits Tax, being a tax on income, forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
It is calculated on the basis of the tax laws and rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and including any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred assets to be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 66 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued l Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
m Finance leases and hire purchase commitments Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease term.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The capital elements, net of finance charges, of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as current or long-term payables in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
n Operating leases Where the Group is a lessee in a lease which does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership from the lessor to the Group, the total lease payments, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
For operating leases of facilities used in the process of production activity, the rental expense is recognised in the cost of sales.
For operating leases relating to the use of administrative facilities, the rental expense is recognised in the selling, general and administrative expense in the income statement.
Where the Group is a lessor under an operating lease, the lease payments receivable are recognised as rental income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure related to an area of interest are written off as incurred until the management conclude that it is probable that future costs will be recovered through successful development and exploitation of the area of interest, or alternatively through its sale, from which point they are carried forward as an asset in the balance sheet and are included as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Capitalised costs include costs directly related to exploration and evaluation activities in the relevant area of interest.
Selling, general and administrative costs are allocated to an exploration or evaluation asset only to the extent that those costs can be related directly to operational activities in the relevant area of interest.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
The following facts and circumstances, among others indicate that exploration and evaluation assets must be tested for impairment: the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area: or sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, the exploration and evaluation assets subject to testing are grouped with existing cashgenerating units of operating mines that are located in the same geographical region.
Where the assets are not associated with a specific cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is assessed for the specific exploration area.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense in accordance with the policy on impairment of non-financial assets.
Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as assets at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
p Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Depreciation is recorded over the useful life of the asset, or over the expected remaining life of the mine if shorter, as follows: Buildings and mining constructions: 20 to 50 years on a straight-line basis.
Mining assets: on a units of production basis.
Plant and equipment: 4 to 15 years on a straight-line basis.
Motor vehicles: 5 to 15 years on a straight-line basis.
The residual value of an asset is nil if the Group expects to use the asset until the end of its physical life.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 67 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Estimates of residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually, and any change in estimate is taken into account in the determination of future depreciation charges.
The individual significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment components, whose useful lives are different from the useful life of the asset as a whole, are depreciated individually, applying depreciation rates reflecting their anticipated useful lives.
The cost of replacing major parts or components of property, plant and equipment items is capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Specialised spare parts and servicing equipment with a significant initial value and a useful life of more than one year are recognised as items of property, plant and equipment.
Other spare parts and servicing-related equipment are recognised as inventories and accounted for in the income statement on utilisation.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy below.
i Mining assets Once a project has been established as commercially viable, capitalised expenditures are transferred from exploration and evaluation to mining assets.
In addition, mining assets include expenditure incurred to establish or expand productive capacity, costs to conduct mining-construction and mining-capital works, as well as costs arising from mining preparation works during the development or mine reconstruction phase.
Development expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically recoverable resources have been identified.
Such expenditure comprises costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the related infrastructure, including the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
When further development expenditure is incurred in respect of a mining asset after the commencement of production, such expenditure is carried forward as part of mining assets when it is probable that additional future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Otherwise such expenditure is recognised as a cost of production.
Once a project has been fully commissioned, depreciation is charged using the units of production method, based on proved and probable reserves, with separate calculations being made for each area of interest.
The units of production basis results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of proved and probable reserves.
Mining assets are included within the category Buildings and mining construction of property, plant and equipment.
ii Assets under construction Assets under construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation commences on the earlier of the date when the assets are brought into service or the assets are available for use.
iii Stripping costs Stripping costs comprise the removal of overburden and other waste products from a mine.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of mines and open pits before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mines and open pits, and depreciated using the unit of production method over the lives of the mines or open pits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of operations are treated as a production cost that form part of the cost of inventory.
q Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and all other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit and fair value less costs to sell the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset or cash-generating unit in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an arms length transaction.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 68 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The estimates used for impairment reviews to determine value in use are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Future cash flows are based on: estimates of the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: future production levels: future commodity prices: and future cash costs of production, capital expenditure related to construction in progress and development projects that are not yet completed, close down, restoration and environmental clean up.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
r Business combinations and goodwill The purchase method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given up, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The date of exchange is the acquisition date where a business combination is achieved in a single transaction, and is the date of each share purchase where a business combination is achieved in stages by successive share purchases.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, represents goodwill.
Any excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired over the cost of acquisition excess of acquirers interest or negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
These cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and these groups are not larger than the Groups operating segments, which are its product groups.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with the impairment policy described in the note above.
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
s Intangible assets Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value when the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives not exceeding 20 years.
t Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and held-to-maturity financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are unquoted non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise mainly loans receivable, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
ii Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
iii Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 69 1.
Principal accounting policies continued iv Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity financial assets, the whole category would be reclassified as available-for-sale.
Recognition and measurement Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the relevant settlement date, which is the date that an asset is delivered to or by the Group.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is not recognised for assets carried at cost or amortised cost.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is recognised in the income statement for financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is provided at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is remeasured at origination at its fair value, which is represented by future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
The difference between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost fair value of the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs represents an origination gain or loss.
The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income costs unless it qualifies for recognition as an asset, liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the loans is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income costs using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences on available-forsale monetary items, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
The Group derecognises financial assets when: i the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets have otherwise expired: ii the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets: or iii the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but has not retained control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, when it becomes probable that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults, and prolonged decline in the value of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale.
i Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of loss is recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting an allowance account.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 70 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued ii Assets classified as available-for-sale The decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
When there is an objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale are not reversed through the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
u Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group holds derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, to hedge its foreign currency exposure in relation to operating costs.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred on the date a derivative contract is entered into.
Derivative financial instruments are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Management policy has been to hedge a proportion of foreign exchange risk associated with highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies, refer note 34 for details.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within other operating income expense.
Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Movements on derivatives not designated as hedge derivatives are taken to other operating income expense in the income statement.
Refer note 34 for disclosure of derivatives and financial risk management.
v Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on a weighted average basis.
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials is purchase price or extraction cost and for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 71 1.
Principal accounting policies continued w Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, which is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision from the previous reporting period is recognised in the income statement.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against selling, general and administration expenses in the income statement.
x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Balances restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in other non-current assets, while balances restricted for more than three months but less than 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in trade and other receivables.
Restricted balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
y Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction cost and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is remeasured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after balance sheet date.
z Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a part of finance costs.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
aa Asset retirement obligations and other environmental provisions An obligation to incur asset retirement costs occurs when environmental disturbance is caused by exploration, evaluation, development or ongoing production.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review.
Estimates are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Asset retirement costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided when the obligation to incur such costs arises and are capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
These costs are charged to the income statement through depreciation of the asset and unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as a financing cost.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning or site rehabilitation of plant and other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset.
ab Employee benefit obligations Defined benefit plans The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements in Kazakhstan and Russia.
The agreements provide for one-off retirement payments, financial aid for employees disability, significant anniversaries and funeral aid.
The entitlement to some benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 72 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods is discounted to determine the present value.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on government bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups benefit obligations.
The calculation is performed annually internally or by a qualified, independent actuary depending on the complexity of computations.
The expected costs of the benefits associated with one-off retirement payments are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit post-employment plans.
This means that the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the defined liabilities obligations is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the income statement.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Defined contribution plans For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries, and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group.
On behalf of its employees, the Group pays those statutory pension and post-employment benefit amounts prescribed by the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates.
These payments are expensed as incurred.
Share-based bonus awards The Group has introduced an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan, under which the Group receives services from qualifying employees as consideration for equity instruments.
The employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity-settled payments are measured at the fair value of the equity granted and are recognised as expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, due to the employees leaving the Group prior to vesting.
The amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of grant using a Monte Carlo pricing model.
If the Group cancels or settles a grant of equity instruments during the vesting period, it treats this as an acceleration of vesting and recognises immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period.
Any payment made to a counterparty on the cancellation or settlement of a grant of equity instruments, even if this occurs after the vesting date, is accounted for as a repurchase of an equity interest ie as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments repurchased, measured at the repurchase date.
Any such excess is recognised as an expense.
ac Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ad Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
ae Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at their fair value adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee.
Financial guarantees are recognised when premiums are paid or in the case of premium-free guarantees when the borrower received the money from the financing entity.
When the Group issues premium-free guarantees or guarantees at a premium different from the market premium, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques eg market prices of similar instruments, interest rate differentials, etc.
Losses at initial recognition of financial guarantee liabilities are recognised in the income statement within net other operating expenses.
Financial guarantee liabilities are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the guarantee with the respective income presented within net other operating expenses.
At each balance sheet date, the guarantees are measured at the higher of: i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition: and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
af Operating segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for making strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Chief Executive Officer.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 73 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Taxation Taxation represents an area of inherent risk due to complexities of tax laws, frequent changes in tax rules, interaction between different taxes and interaction between tax rules of different jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the position for income taxes across the different countries in which the Group operates.
Tax provisions are recognised by the Group in accordance with tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the taxing jurisdictions, and in accordance with requirements of the applicable accounting standards.
Note 15 contains information on current tax charges, prior period adjustments, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities including, where appropriate, provisions against uncertain tax positions.
b Ore reserve estimates Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period.
This may impact the Groups financial results.
Such changes in reserves may impact depreciation charges, asset carrying values, and asset retirement obligation provisions.
The Groups ore reserves are based on its best estimate of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the relevant mining properties.
Estimates are developed after taking into account a range of factors including quantities, ore grades, production techniques and recovery rates, forecast commodity prices and production costs.
The Groups estimates are normally supported by geological studies by independent mining engineering consultants and drilling samples to determine the quantity and grade of each ore body.
Significant judgement is required to generate an estimate based on the geological data available.
Ore reserve estimates are mostly calculated based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code which requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including: future production estimates which include proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and committed expansions: expected future commodity prices, based on current market price, forward prices and the Groups assessment of the long-term average price: and future cash costs of production, capital expenditure and rehabilitation obligations.
c Life of mines Contracts for subsurface use expire between 2013 and 2041.
Management expects that the subsurface use contracts will be extended at nominal cost until the end of the lives of the related mines, which range between 12 and 52 years.
Any change to this assumption may impact the Groups financial results by affecting depreciation charges, asset carrying values and asset retirement obligations, as these have been recorded on the assumption that the subsurface use contracts will be extended until the end of the mine life.
If the contracts are not renewed at their current expiry dates, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment in Kazakhstan and Russia existing at the expiry date to be written off at the date of expiry is US$612 million as at 31 December 2009 2008: US$757 million.
d Provision for asset retirement obligations Provision is made for asset retirement obligations when the related environmental disturbance takes place.
Provisions are recognised at the net present value of future expected costs as outlined in note 28.
The provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the costs that will be incurred but significant judgement is required as many of these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine.
Estimates are reviewed annually and are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Significant changes in environmental legislation, restoration techniques and estimates of contamination will result in changes to provisions from period to period.
The inflation rate currently applied in the calculation is 5.6%6.2% as at 31 December 2009 2008: 7%8.6% being the estimate of the rate of inflation over the mine lives.
The discount rate currently applied in the calculation is 6.0%8.9% at 31 December 2009 2008: 10.6% 11.4% being the estimate of the risk-free pre-tax interest rate for long-term government securities.
Rehabilitation expenditure is largely expected to take place at the end of the respective mine lives, which varies from 12 to 52 years.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 74 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued e Impairment As stated in note 2 f below, the Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
The Group also at the reporting date considers the recoverability of all assets if there have been any indications of impairment.
The recoverability of the value of current assets is addressed through the Groups usual procedures refer note 1, for example the assessment of counterparty default risk, both customer and financial counterparties, and is not part of this impairment review.
Long-term non-financial assets require there to be a reasonable expectation of recoverability of the carrying value of those assets through profitability and cash flow.
Accordingly, an impairment indicator exists, the Groups approach is to consider the ability of its groups of cash-generating units, which have no goodwill or other intangible assets in their financial statements, to generate future economic benefits which exceed the value of the related tangible assets in the financial statements.
The Groups strategic planning models, which are on a life-of-mines basis, are used to calculate an appropriate value of the future economic benefits for each of these cash-generating units in terms of discounted future cash flows.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 37 years as of 31 December 2009.
The key assumptions which formed the basis of forecasting future cash flows in the models as of 31 December 2009 are: commodity prices, which are based on internal forecasts by the management of the Groups sales and marketing business.
These internal forecasts are consistent with the forecasts of industry market researchers: long-term costs are set in line with current operational performance, as adjusted for future inflation rates in countries of operation and, where applicable, the expected movements in key input costs: the successful extraction, processing and sale of the reserves in accordance with the quantities described in the report on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources on pages 115 to 121: the long-term US inflation rate will average 2.5% per annum, in line with external forecasts: and in determining the discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows the Group based its assumption on an external advisor report.
The rate used was 13.9%16.3%, which is the advisors opinion on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital for the Group.
The impairment reviews as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 concluded that no impairment provisions are required for long-term non-financial assets.
f Business combinations and goodwill The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year.
Where necessary, the Group hired external valuation consultants to advise on the fair value and asset lives of acquired assets, otherwise these were estimated internally.
The portion of the purchase price not allocated to specific assets and liabilities as identified by management has been attributed to goodwill.
The Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
For groups of cash-generating units that were allocated goodwill the Groups strategic planning models were used to calculate discounted future cash flows Value in Use per IAS 36 and thus assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the goodwill.
These models are prepared on a life-of-mines basis as this period properly reflects the long-term nature of the Groups assets.
The key assumptions which form the basis of forecasting future cash flows are the same as listed in section 2e above.
The impairment reviews as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 concluded that no impairment provisions are required for goodwill.
g Fair value of financial instruments In determining fair value of financial instruments the Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and verify assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date, as well as obtains fair value measurements from other parties.
Effective 1 January 2009, for the financial instruments measures in the balance sheet at fair value, the group has adopted the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in the active market is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
These instruments are included in level 1.
As of 31 December 2009, the Groups available-for-sale financial instruments note 20 are included in level 1 of the hierarchy.
As of 31 December 2009, the Group does not hold financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
As of 31 December 2009, the group does not hold financial instruments that are included in level 2 or 3 of the hierarchy.
As of 31 December 2008, the fair values of the Groups available-for-sale financial instruments and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss were value based on quoted market prices.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 75 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued The fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost is based on expected cash flows discounted at current interest rates for new instruments with similar credit risk and maturity.
The investments in unquoted options, disclosed in note 20, are carried at cost, because the fair value can not be reliably measured.
New accounting pronouncements i Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 and are relevant to Groups operations Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Amendment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment allows first-time adopters of IFRS to measure investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates at fair value or at previous GAAP carrying value as deemed cost in the separate financial statements.
The amendment also requires distributions from pre-acquisition net assets of investees to be recognised in the income statement rather than as a recovery of the investment.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Vesting Conditions and Cancellations Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies that only service conditions and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
The amendment specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
As the change in accounting policy only results in additional disclosures, there is no impact on earnings per share.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The segments are reported in a manner that is more consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
No changes in segment aggregation occurred.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements revised September 2007: effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity in a statement of comprehensive income.
As a result the Group presents in the consolidated statement of changes in equity all owner changes in equity, whereas all non-owner changes in equity are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it also is in conformity with the revised standard.
As the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The main change to IAS 23 is the removal of the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
An entity is, therefore, required to capitalise such borrowing costs as part of the cost of the asset.
The revised standard applies prospectively to borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to the standard did not have impact on the Groups financial statements, as the Group previously capitalised interest and other costs on borrowings used to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time required to complete and prepare asset for its intended use note 1.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRIC 14 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 31 December 2008, with early adoption permitted.
The interpretation contains guidance on when refunds or reductions in future contributions may be regarded as available for the purposes of the asset ceiling test in IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on LiquidationIAS 32 and IAS 1 Amendment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires classification as equity of some financial instruments that meet the definition of financial liabilities.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards issued in May 2008.
In 2007, the International Accounting Standards Board decided to initiate an annual improvements project as a method of making necessary, but non-urgent, amendments to IFRS.
The amendments consist of a mixture of substantive changes, clarifications, and changes in terminology in various standards, such as IFRS 5, IAS 1, 7, 16, 19, 20, 23, 27, 28, 31, 36, 38, 39, 40, 41.
Further amendments made to IAS 8, 10, 18, 20, 29, 34, 40, 41 and to IFRS 7 represent terminology or editorial changes only, which the IASB believes have no or minimal effect on accounting.
The amendments do not have any material effect on Groups financial statements.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 76 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
New accounting pronouncements continued ii Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 but they are not relevant to the Groups operations: IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 for financial statements prepared under IFRS: adopted by the EU with an effective date postponed to annual periods beginning after 31 December 2008: early adoption permitted.
iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods, and the Group has not early adopted them: Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, not yet adopted by the EU.
IFRS 3, Business Combinations revised January 2008: effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments issued in November 2009, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with earlier application permitted: not yet adopted by the EU.
IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures amended November 2009, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: not yet adopted by the EU.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the listed above amendments and new standards on disclosures in its financial statements.
IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised January 2008: effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Classification of Rights Issues Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
Eligible Hedged Items Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective with retrospective application for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Embedded Derivatives Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009: amendments to IFRIC 19 and IAS 39 as adopted by the EU are effective for annual periods beginning after 31 December 2009, with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRIC 17 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning after 31 October 2009, with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010: not yet adopted by the EU.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards issued in April 2009: amendments to IFRS 2, IAS 38, IFRIC 9 and IFRIC 16 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: amendments to IFRS 5, IFRS 8, IAS 1, IAS 7, IAS 17, IAS 36 and IAS 39 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010: the improvements have not yet been adopted by the EU.
The Group does not expect the amendments to the standards listed above to have a material effect on its financial statements.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 77 3.
New accounting pronouncements continued iv Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and are not relevant to the Group IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 12 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 30 March 2009, with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008: IFRIC 16 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning after 30 June 2009, with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009: IFRIC 15 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning after 31 December 2009, with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers effective prospectively to transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009, earlier application permitted: IFRIC 18 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning after 31 October 2009, with early adoption permitted.
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards following an amendment in December 2008, effective for the first IFRS financial statements for a period beginning on or after 1 July 2009: restructured IFRS 1 as adopted by the EU is effective for annual periods beginning after 31 December 2009, with early adoption permitted.
Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010: not yet adopted by the EU.
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment to IFRIC 14 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: not yet adopted by the EU.
Limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first-time adopters Amendment to IFRS 1 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010: not yet adopted by the EU.
Segment information Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO and used to make strategic decisions.
The CEO considers the business from a products and services perspective and assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the measure of Underlying EBITDA refer note 38.
The amounts provided to the CEO with respect to segment assets and segment liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment and their physical location.
Segment Underlying EBITDA, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and receivables and mainly exclude investments in joint venture and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable, unallocated cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and deferred and current income tax assets.
Segment liabilities comprise primarily trade and other payables and mainly exclude borrowings and deferred and current income tax liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
The Group is organised on the basis of six 2008: five operating segments: Ferroalloys comprises the extraction and sale of chrome ore as well as the production of ferroalloys from chromium and manganese ores.
Iron Ore comprises extraction, processing and manufacturing of iron ore products.
Alumina and Aluminium comprises extraction and processing of bauxite and limestone, and smelting of alumina and aluminium.
Energy comprises coal mining and power generation.
Logistics the Republic of Kazakhstans main freight forwarder and railroad operator, providing international logistics for all Eurasian based ENRC operations: also rail construction and repair services for the Kazakhstani state rail company.
Other Non-ferrous comprises the exploration and extraction, processing and manufacturing of copper and cobalt products, the exploration of other minerals and logistics operations in Africa acquired as part of the acquisition of CAMEC in 2009 refer note 6.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW
