Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey under Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Experian is a business services group.
The Company changed its name from Experian Group Limited on 21 July 2008.
The consolidated financial statements of Experian plc and its subsidiary undertakings were approved by the board on 19 May 2009.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These are those standards, subsequent amendments and related interpretations issued and adopted by the IASB that have been endorsed by the EU.
Although the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey, the Group financial statements include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements are presented in US dollars, as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and they are rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 5.
The Company financial statements which are set out on pages 138 to 146 are prepared and presented in sterling.
The financial statements for the Company for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be prepared and presented in US dollars as the US dollar has become the dominant currency to which the Company is now exposed.
As indicated on page 88, during the year ended 31 March 2009, there have been a number of new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2008.
None of these has had a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group for the year under review.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the financial statements of the Company are included within the Group annual report.
The Company has elected to prepare its financial statements under UK accounting standards.
Comparative information There have been a number of developments which change the presentation of the comparative financial information and these are summarised as follows: - Experian disposed of its transaction processing activities in France on 31 October 2008.
As a consequence, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the results and cash flows of that business for the year ended 31 March 2008 have been reclassified as discontinued.
The results of the EMEA Asia Pacific geographical segment and the Credit Services business segment shown within note 4 have been restated accordingly.
- Following a review of the Groups assessment of risks and rewards, there have been a number of changes in the reporting of revenues and profits across the Groups four business segments so that these more appropriately reflect the nature of the underlying businesses and align the risks and rewards of certain smaller businesses with those of the business segments in which they are now reported.
Further information on the nature of these changes is given in note 4.
Except as indicated above, the Group financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with that reported for the year ended 31 March 2008.
78 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
As required by IFRS 3 all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 31 March 2009.
A list of the significant subsidiaries is given in note Q to the parent company financial statements.
Equity minority interests The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Group income statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition after tax profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the Groups equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts, including the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the contract period.
Experian Annual Report 2009 79 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation Presentation currency The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to net financing costs in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss in equity.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars are translated into US dollars as follows: - Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at the balance sheet date: - Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and - All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currency is not the US dollar, and of borrowings and other currency instruments, primarily foreign exchange contracts, designated as hedges of such investments, are taken directly to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
When such an undertaking is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing exchange rate.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate geographical area of operation or a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, under IFRS 5.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
These include awards in respect of shares in the Company made at or after the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group from GUS plc in October 2006, together with awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into awards in respect of shares in the Company at demerger.
The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised as an expense in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
80 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arise from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These criteria include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Databases and computer software Databases Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases.
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Acquisition intangibles Customer and advertiser relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer and advertiser relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eighteen years, based on managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships.
Trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of 20 years.
Trade names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to fourteen years, based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Completed technology Completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years, based on the expected life of the asset.
Experian Annual Report 2009 81 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life and period of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: - Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: - Leasehold properties with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: and - Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over two to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in four categories: loans and receivables, derivatives used for hedging, assets at fair value through the profit and loss account and available for sale.
The classification is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets, with fixed or determinable payments, that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through the profit and loss account Assets at fair value through the profit and loss account comprise holdings of listed equity securities, principally those held in the UK to secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and disposals of such assets are accounted for at settlement date.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of such assets, the gains and losses in equity are recycled through the income statement.
Gains and losses recognised on disposal exclude dividend and interest income.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale financial assets are impaired.
In the case of equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any such evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value original invoice amount and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received compared to the terms upon which the trade receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement within administrative expenses.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables is recognised in the Group income statement immediately within administrative expenses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the Group income statement within administrative expenses.
82 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations, including social security obligations, in respect of share-based payments.
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at cost, being the fair value at the date a contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Depending on the type of the derivative financial instrument, fair value calculation techniques include, but are not limited to, quoted market value, present value of estimated future cash flows of which the valuation of interest rate swaps is an example and exchange rates at the balance sheet date of which the valuation of foreign exchange contracts is an example.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: - Fair value hedges hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment: or - Cash flow hedges hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or - Net investment hedges hedges of net investments in operations whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within one year after the balance sheet date.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net financing costs over the period of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Experian Annual Report 2009 83 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately within cost of sales or operating expenses, as appropriate, in the Group income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item impacts the Group income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in an undertaking whose functional currency is not the US dollar is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the undertaking is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than those of a financing nature, are charged as an employment cost: other costs and changes in fair value on such derivatives are charged within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Group income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities is determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, which are CGUs.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are carried at amortised cost.
Contingent consideration Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of the acquisition initially recorded includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable and payable in the future.
The proceeds are adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to debtors and creditors as appropriate, and profit and loss on disposal, until the ultimate outcome is known.
84 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Current and deferred tax The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: - The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: and - It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and - The amount has been reliably estimated.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each year.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
Experian Annual Report 2009 85 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits Defined benefit pension arrangements funded plans The retirement benefit assets and obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
The operating and financing costs are recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded plans Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for in accordance with the principles used in respect of the funded arrangements but are disclosed in the Group balance sheet within retirement benefit obligations.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the Group to these funds in respect of the year.
Post-retirement healthcare obligations The Group operates plans which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependent relatives.
The principal plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under this plan, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
The obligations in respect of these plans are calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries.
The obligations are calculated using an actuarial methodology similar to that for the funded defined benefit pension arrangements but are disclosed in the Group balance sheet within retirement benefit obligations.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation.
Minority interests in equity The minority interests in equity in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by the minority shareholders, the put element of the liability is measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation this liability is shown as a non-current financial liability in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within finance expense.
86 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgments Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the related provision for income taxes as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit assets and obligations depends on factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit assets and obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group balance sheet and the Group income statement.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the discount rate, the Group has considered the prevailing market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
In determining the discount rate, management has accordingly derived an appropriate discount rate by consideration of the average annualised yield on medium and longer term AA rated corporate bonds in the UK as published by iBoxx, together with consideration of the average yields from Euro Sterling AA, Financial AA and Bank AA indices.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is disclosed in note 28.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-thecounter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions in respect of the valuation of the put option associated with the remaining 30% stake of Serasa Experian Serasa are set out in note 25 d. Experian Annual Report 2009 87 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations which require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the markets in which the segment operates.
The discount rates used reflect the regions weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are: Pre-tax Long term Region WACC growth rate North America 11.6% 2.3% Latin America 17.0% 8.0% UK & Ireland 11.5% 2.3% EMEA Asia Pacific 12.5% 4.5% The recoverable amount of the Latin America CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$200m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 1.3% or a reduction of 1.5% in the long term growth rate would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled share-based employee incentive plans.
The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgments in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
Critical judgments Management has made certain judgments in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies set out above that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
The accounting policy descriptions indicate where judgment needs exercising and these judgments include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
The most significant of these judgments is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made certain judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and seven years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and twenty years for acquisition intangibles.
Recent accounting developments The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2008 but have had no material effect on the results or financial position of the Group: - IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements - IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction 88 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Once adopted by the EU, the following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee will be effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2009: - Amendments to the following standards as a result of the May 2008 annual improvements process: IFRS 5 Noncurrent assets held for sale and discontinued operations IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment IAS 19 Employee benefits IAS 20 Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies IAS 31 Financial reporting of interests in joint ventures IAS 36 Impairment of assets IAS 38 Intangible assets IAS 40 Investment property IAS 41 Agriculture - IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption of IFRS - IFRS 2 Amendment Share-Based Payments - IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations - IFRS 8 Operating segments - IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements - IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing Costs - IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements - IAS 28 Amendment Investment in Associates - IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation - IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - IAS 39 Revised Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes - IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate - IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation - IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers These standards are still subject to adoption by the EU.
Of these there is only one which is expected to have a material effect on the results and net assets of the Group although a number of the developments will lead to additional or revised disclosures.
As previously indicated, IFRS 3 Revised requires amendments to accounting for business combinations and the treatment of associated transaction costs and accordingly will impact the accounting treatment of future acquisitions in the financial statements.
The most significant of those that will lead to additional or revised disclosures is IFRS 8.
The Group has reviewed the requirements of this IFRS during the year and is adopting it with effect from 1 April 2009.
Whilst compliance with IFRS 8 will require some revisions to the nature of segmental information disclosed, the structure of the Groups segmental information will be largely unchanged from that currently provided.
Use of non-GAAP measures The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
Experian Annual Report 2009 89 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group: Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements and tax.
It includes the Groups share of associates pre-tax profit.
Earnings before interest and tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, net financing costs and tax.
Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark PBT less attributable tax and minority interests divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units or costs of significant restructuring programmes.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations adjusted for outflows in respect of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets and adding dividends from associates but excluding any cash inflows and outflows in respect of exceptional items.
It is defined as EBIT less changes in working capital, plus depreciation amortisation, less capital expenditure, less profit retained in associates.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Total debt includes loans and borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Accrued interest is excluded from net debt.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity, whilst maximising returns.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, undertakings with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are sterling, by borrowing in the relevant foreign currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The principal transaction exposures are to the US dollar and the euro.
In view of the profile of foreign exchange transaction exposures and an assessment of reasonable possible changes in the principal exposures, the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange risk can be quantified as follows: - At 31 March 2009, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 9% 2008: 6% against sterling, with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been unchanged 2008: US$1m higher lower, and other components of equity would have been unchanged.
- At 31 March 2009, if the euro had strengthened weakened by 8% 2008: 3% against sterling, with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$2m 2008: US$1m higher lower, and other components of equity would have been unchanged.
The Group has investments in undertakings with other functional currencies, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
In order to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on the value of such entities, the Group has a policy of borrowing in US dollars and euros, as well as in sterling and of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies.
The above sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of foreign exchange risk on the translation of the net assets of such undertakings.
90 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 3.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the portions thereof at variable rates which expose the Group to such risk.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net debt at rates that are fixed for more than one year.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
The Group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
In view of the profile of net debt and an assessment of reasonable possible changes in the principal interest rates, the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk as at 31 March 2009 can be quantified as follows: - If interest rates on US dollar denominated net debt had been 1.6% 2008: 1.4% higher with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$4m 2008: US$1m higher, mainly as a result of higher interest income on interest rate swaps, offset by higher expense on floating rate borrowings.
- If interest rates on sterling denominated net debt had been 1.0% 2008: 0.4% higher with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$4m higher 2008: US$8m lower, mainly as a result of higher interest income on interest rate swaps.
- If interest rates on Brazilian real denominated net debt had been 2.9% 2008: 2.4% higher with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$1m 2008: US$1m higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on deposits.
If interest rates on euro denominated net debt had been 1.0% 2008: 0.7% higher with all other variables held constant, - profit for the financial year would have been US$2m 2008: US$3m higher, mainly as a result of higher interest income on interest rate swaps.
Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk in connection with investments classified on the balance sheet as available for sale financial assets.
Such investments are primarily held to provide security in connection with unfunded pension obligations and are managed by independent fund managers who seek to mitigate such risk by diversification of the portfolio.
At 31 March 2009, if the relevant stock market and other indices had been 10% higher lower with all other variables held constant, no further gains losses would have been recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contract party.
This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year and the Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
At the balance sheet date trade receivables with financial institutions accounted for some 37% 2008: 41% of total trade receivables in the UK and some 33% 2008: 38% of total trade receivables in the USA.
The remaining balances are distributed across multiple industries and geographies.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is the carrying value of the assets.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed facilities to ensure it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expansions.
The Group monitors rolling forecasts of projected cash flows to ensure that it will have adequate undrawn committed facilities available.
Details of the facilities available to the Group and their utilisation at the balance sheet date are given in note 22.
Maturity analyses for financial liabilities are given in note 26 d. Capital risk management The Groups objectives in managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce net debt.
As part of its internal reporting processes the Experian Annual Report 2009 91 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued Group monitors capital employed by geographical segment.
For this purpose, capital employed excludes net debt and tax balances and at 31 March 2009 the Groups capital employed was US$4,205m 2008: US$5,054m.
The Group manages its working capital in order to meet its target for the conversion of EBIT into operating cash flow and the conversion percentage for the year ended 31 March 2009 was 99% 2008: 95%.
Segmental information A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
Total segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude assets which are reported at a Group level only which comprise tax assets together with cash, investments and derivative assets designated as hedges of borrowings which are reported as part of net debt.
Total segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives and the net present value of the put option in respect of the Serasa minority which are reported at a Group level only.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
The primary and secondary segmental reporting formats for Experian are outlined below.
As indicated on page 78, the Groups transaction processing activities in France are now reported as discontinued with comparative information restated as appropriate.
Additional information in respect of discontinued operations is shown in note 11.
As indicated on page 89, compliance with IFRS 8 from 1 April 2009 will not result in any significant changes in the structure of the Groups segmental information.
Primary reporting format geographical segments At 31 March 2009, Experian is organised on a worldwide basis into four core geographies: - North America: - Latin America: - UK & Ireland: and - Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA Asia Pacific.
Unallocated corporate head office costs, which include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions, are reported as Central Activities.
Secondary reporting format business segments Experian operates across four key business segments: - Credit Services: - Decision Analytics: - Marketing Services: and - Interactive.
Credit Services acquires, processes and manages large and complex databases containing the credit histories of consumers and businesses.
Decision Analytics builds on the Credit Services database information and helps clients by applying analytical tools and software to convert data held internally and other data into usable business information.
Marketing Services helps clients to acquire new customers and to manage their relationships with existing customers.
By appending hundreds of characteristics to the credit and marketing data held in databases, Marketing Services provides clients with information designed to assist them in matching the right offer or product to the relevant customer using the most appropriate communication channels.
Interactive helps customers to understand and manage their own financial information and assets as well as to make more informed purchasing decisions in areas such as financial services, shopping and education and to connect them with companies over the internet.
92 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 4.
Segmental information continued Geographical segments 2009 a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2009 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central T otal Discontinued T otal 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific Activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 2,083 462 902 426 3,873 201 4,074 Profit Operating profit loss 456 80 140 16 79 613 26 639 Net financing costs 77 77 77 Share of post-tax profits losses of associates 46 4 42 42 Profit loss before tax 502 80 140 12 156 578 26 604 Group tax expense 84 14 98 Profit for the financial year 494 12 506 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 616 118 213 49 57 939 Net interest 96 96 Benchmark PBT 616 118 213 49 153 843 Exceptional items note 8 49 30 22 16 117 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 48 38 34 12 132 Goodwill adjustment 1 1 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 14 9 3 6 32 Financing fair value remeasurements 19 19 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 2 2 Profit loss before tax 502 80 140 12 156 578 1.
As indicated in note 2 to the financial statements, discontinued operations comprise the Groups transaction processing activities in France.
Additional information on discontinued operations, the results of which were formerly reported within the EMEA Asia Pacific geographical segment, is shown in note 11.
Revenue from external customers arose principally from the provision of services.
b Balance sheet at 31 March 2009 North Latin UK & EMEA Central To ta l 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific Activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,534 789 544 258 3,125 Investments in associates 313 19 332 Other assets 1,012 567 432 299 143 2,453 Total segment assets 2,859 1,356 976 576 143 5,910 Total segment liabilities 444 123 268 225 221 1,281 Segment net assets liabilities 2,415 1,233 708 351 78 4,629 Net present value of put option in respect of Serasa minority interest 424 Net debt 2,110 Tax 196 Group net assets 1,899 1.
Segment net assets for Central Activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and obligations and derivative assets and liabilities.
Experian Annual Report 2009 93 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Segmental information continued c Other financial information Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central T otal Discontinued T otal 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific Activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 45 9 24 9 3 90 4 94 Amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition intangibles 114 41 32 11 198 5 203 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profit of associates 48 4 44 44 Capital expenditure 126 69 52 38 20 305 10 315 1.
Additional information on discontinued operations, which comprise the Groups transaction processing activities in France, is shown in note 11.
94 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 4.
Segmental information continued Geographical segments 2008 a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2008 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central T otal Discontinued To ta l 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific Activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 2,061 324 1,024 380 3,789 341 4,130 Profit Operating profit loss 473 44 155 29 76 625 29 654 Net financing costs 154 154 1 155 Share of post-tax profits of associates 49 1 50 50 Profit loss before tax 522 44 155 30 230 521 28 549 Group tax expense 91 6 97 Profit for the financial year 430 22 452 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 608 75 232 50 57 908 Net interest 125 125 Benchmark PBT 608 75 232 50 182 783 Exceptional items note 8 12 28 9 6 55 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 48 31 35 7 121 Goodwill adjustment 2 2 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 18 14 4 13 49 Financing fair value remeasurements 29 29 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 6 6 Profit loss before tax 522 44 155 30 230 521 1.
As indicated in note 2, the segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Groups transaction processing activities in France as a discontinued operation.
b Balance sheet at 31 March 2008 North Latin UK & EMEA Central To ta l 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific Activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,474 1,033 711 387 3,605 Investments in associates 294 1 295 Other assets 1,080 743 657 502 387 3,369 Total segment assets 2,848 1,776 1,368 890 387 7,269 Total segment liabilities 496 138 382 328 288 1,632 Segment net assets 2,352 1,638 986 562 99 5,637 Net present value of put option in respect of Serasa minority interest 583 Net debt 2,699 Tax 238 Group net assets 2,117 1.
Experian Annual Report 2009 95 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Segmental information continued c Other financial information Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central T otal Discontinued To ta l 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific Activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 42 12 30 6 3 93 8 101 Amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition intangibles 104 26 33 16 179 8 187 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profit of associates 49 1 50 50 Capital expenditure 164 50 72 31 4 321 23 344 1.
As indicated in note 2, the segmental information in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Groups transaction processing activities in France as a discontinued operation.
Business segments a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2009 1 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Central T otal Discontinued T otal 2 Services Analytics Services Interactive Activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 3 Revenue from external customers 1,666 487 770 950 3,873 201 4,074 Profit Operating profit loss 415 120 24 171 117 613 26 639 Net financing costs 77 77 77 Share of post-tax profits of associates 42 42 42 Profit loss before tax 457 120 24 171 194 578 26 604 Group tax expense 84 14 98 Profit for the financial year 494 12 506 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 554 142 88 212 57 939 Net interest 96 96 Benchmark PBT 554 142 88 212 153 843 Exceptional items note 8 41 16 23 9 28 117 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 54 6 40 32 132 Goodwill adjustment 1 1 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 4 equity incentive plans 32 32 Financing fair value remeasurements 19 19 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 2 2 Profit loss before tax 457 120 24 171 194 578 1.
As indicated in note 2 to the financial statements, there have been some reclassifications in respect of three of the Groups smaller businesses within the reporting of results for continuing operations by business segment and the above results reflect the new reporting structure.
These reclassifications relate to the Vente, Baker Hill and Experian Payments businesses.
The effect of these reclassifications on the reported results has been to increase the revenue reported for Decision Analytics and Interactive by US$39m and US$14m respectively and to reduce that for Credit Services and Marketing Services by US$15m and US$38m respectively.
The associated effect has been to increase operating profit and profit before tax for Decision Analytics and Credit Services by US$7m and US$1m respectively and to reduce operating profit and profit before tax for Marketing Services by US$8m.
Additional information on discontinued operations, the results of which were formerly reported within the Credit Services business segment, is shown in note 11.
No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is maintained only to provide an allocation by geographical segment.
96 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 4.
Segmental information continued Year ended 31 March 2008 1 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Central T otal Discontinued T otal 2 Services Analytics Services Interactive Activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 3 Revenue from external customers 1,619 505 785 880 3,789 341 4,130 Profit Operating profit loss 430 143 8 156 112 625 29 654 Net financing costs 154 154 1 155 Share of post-tax profits of associates 50 50 50 Profit loss before tax 480 143 8 156 266 521 28 549 Group tax expense 91 6 97 Profit loss for the financial year 430 22 452 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 544 160 69 192 57 908 Net interest 125 125 Benchmark PBT 544 160 69 192 182 783 Exceptional items note 8 13 10 22 4 6 55 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 45 7 37 32 121 Goodwill adjustment 2 2 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 4 equity incentive plans 49 49 Financing fair value remeasurements 29 29 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 6 6 Profit loss before tax 480 143 8 156 266 521 1.
As indicated in note 2 to the financial statements, the segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated and the results of three of the Groups smaller businesses reclassified within the reporting of results for continuing operations.
Whilst the reported results for Central Activities remain unchanged, there are minor reclassifications of revenue and profit measures within the other four segments.
The effect of these reclassifications has been to increase the revenue reported for Decision Analytics and Interactive by US$36m and US$21m respectively and to reduce that for Credit Services and Marketing Services by US$12m and US$45m respectively.
The associated effect has been to increase operating profit and profit before tax for Decision Analytics and Interactive by US$6m and US$3m respectively and to reduce operating profit and profit before tax for Marketing Services by US$9m.
As indicated in note 2 to the financial statements, the segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Groups transaction processing activities in France as a discontinued operation.
Experian Annual Report 2009 97 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Segmental information continued b Total segment assets 2009 2008 US$m US$m Credit Services 3,059 3,759 Decision Analytics 398 494 Marketing Services 1,047 1,323 Interactive 1,099 1,082 Central Activities 307 611 Total 5,910 7,269 Segment assets for Central Activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets, derivative assets and all Group properties as they are not allocated by business segment.
c Capital expenditure 2009 2008 US$m US$m Continuing operations Credit Services 194 215 Decision Analytics 14 23 Marketing Services 58 58 Interactive 16 21 Central Activities 23 4 Total continuing operations 305 321 Discontinued operations 10 23 Total 315 344 As indicated in note 2, the segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Groups transaction processing activities in France as a discontinued operation.
98 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 5.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used in these financial statements are as follows: Average Closing 2009 2008 2009 2008 2007 Sterling : US dollar 1.69 2.01 1.43 1.99 1.96 US dollar : Brazilian real 1.96 1.86 2.30 1.75 2.08 Euro : US dollar 1.41 1.42 1.33 1.58 1.33 Assets and liabilities of undertakings whose functional currency is not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions.
An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to foreign exchange risk is given in note 3.
Expenses 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m Expenses by nature Profit before tax is stated after charging: Net operating lease rental expense 59 89 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 90 94 Amortisation of intangible assets 330 312 Write down on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 1 3 Employee benefit costs note 7 1,428 1,456 Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses, except for the amortisation of databases which is charged to cost of sales.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor Audit and assurance services: Audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 1 1 Audit of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 3 3 Other assurance services including the review of the Groups half-yearly financial report 1 2 5 6 Other services: Taxation services 5 6 Services in respect of the demerger 4 2 All other services, including regulatory and compliance services 4 9 12 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 14 18 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement.
Experian Annual Report 2009 99 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 7.
Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Aggregate employee costs for the continuing operations of the Group 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 Notes US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,163 1,163 Social security costs 165 169 Share-based payments 27 55 76 Pension costs defined benefit plans 28 10 12 Pension costs defined contribution plans 35 36 Total continuing operations 1,428 1,456 Average number of employees including executive directors in the continuing operations of the Group 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 Full time Full time Full time Part time equivalent Full time Part time equivalent North America 5,768 302 5,919 5,674 286 5,817 Latin America 2,355 228 2,469 1,846 258 1,975 UK & Ireland 3,549 99 3,599 4,004 205 4,106 EMEA Asia Pacific 2,575 104 2,627 1,726 121 1,787 Central Activities 85 3 87 80 3 82 Total continuing operations 14,332 736 14,701 13,330 873 13,767 The average number of employees full time equivalent of Serasa in the nine months from its acquisition in June 2007 to 31 March 2008 was 2,505 and the employee numbers for 2008 in respect of Serasa reported within Latin America were adjusted to reflect the period of ownership.
Remuneration of key management personnel 2009 2008 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12 12 Retirement benefits 1 5 Share-based payments 13 18 Total continuing operations 26 35 Key management personnel comprises the board of directors and certain senior management.
The amount included in respect of share-based payments includes operating and exceptional costs for previous GUS awards and the one-off demerger awards.
Further details of the remuneration of directors are given in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.. 100 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 8.
Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m Exceptional items Restructuring costs 92 52 Cessation of bureau activities 15 Demerger and related restructuring costs 7 6 Closure of UK Account Processing 2 Loss on disposal of businesses 3 2 Gain arising in associate on the partial disposal of its subsidiary 3 Total exceptional items 117 55 Other non-GAAP measures Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 132 121 Goodwill adjustment 1 2 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 32 49 Financing fair value remeasurements note 9 19 29 Total other non-GAAP measures 146 201 Exceptional items and other non-GAAP measures are in respect of continuing operations.
Exceptional items are charged to administrative expenses.
Exceptional items Expenditure of US$92m 2008: US$52m arose in the year in connection with the Groups strategic programme of cost efficiency measures.
Of this US$51m 2008: US$34m related to redundancy, US$34m 2008: US$6m related to offshoring activities, infrastructure consolidations and other restructuring activities and US$7m 2008: US$12m related to asset write-offs.
During the year Experian initiated the closure of its Canadian credit bureau and is in discussions to terminate the joint venture bureau in Japan.
Charges associated with the closure of the bureaux include US$13m of fixed asset write offs, including the related investment in associate, and a further US$2m of closure costs.
Demerger and related restructuring costs comprise legal and professional fees, together with costs in connection with the cessation of a number of subsidiaries of the former GUS plc.
In April 2006, Experian announced the phased withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK.
The anticipated cost of withdrawal of US$26m was charged in the year ended 31 March 2007, and during the year ended 31 March 2008 an amount of US$2m was released from the provision.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES recognised gains in respect of a number of disposals and the Group recognised US$3m, its 20% share of such gains.
Cash outflows in respect of exceptional items are analysed in note 32 i.
Other non-GAAP measures IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on judgments about their value and economic life.
A goodwill adjustment of US$1m 2008: US$2m arose under IFRS 3 Business Combinations on the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses on prior years acquisitions.
The corresponding tax benefit reduced the tax charge for the year by US$1m 2008: US$2m.
Charges in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans.
The cost of these one-off grants is being charged to the Group income statement over the five years from flotation in October 2006, but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
The cost of all other grants is being charged to the Group income statement and included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements, together with gains and losses on put options in respect of acquisitions, are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within finance income and finance expense in the Group income statement.
Experian Annual Report 2009 101 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Net financing costs 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m a Net financing costs Interest income: Bank deposits and money market funds 16 19 Interest differentials on derivatives 12 1 Expected return on pension plan assets 69 76 Interest income 97 96 Financing fair value gains: Gains on interest rate swaps fair value hedges 53 34 Ineffective portion of net investment hedges 7 Foreign exchange transaction gains 11 Movement in fair value of Serasa put option 21 69 Financing fair value gains 85 110 Finance income 182 206 Interest expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 41 71 Eurobonds and notes 61 90 Commitment and facility utilisation fees 1 1 Unwind of discounts on provisions 6 4 Interest differentials on derivatives 30 Finance lease interest expense 2 2 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 52 53 Interest expense 193 221 Financing fair value losses: Fair value losses on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 51 35 Fair value losses on non-hedging derivatives 15 98 Foreign exchange transaction losses 6 Financing fair value losses 66 139 Finance expense 259 360 Net financing costs 77 154 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT Net financing costs 77 154 Financing fair value remeasurements 19 29 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 96 125 c Financing fair value remeasurements included in net financing costs Financing fair value gains 85 110 Financing fair value losses 66 139 Credit charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 19 29 An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to interest rate risk is given in note 3.
102 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 10.
Tax expense 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m a Analysis of expense recognised in the Group income statement Current tax: UK Corporation tax on income for the year 15 Adjustments in respect of prior years 28 43 28 58 Non-UK tax: Tax on income for the year 54 110 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 54 111 Total current tax charge for the year 26 53 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 61 28 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3 10 Total deferred tax charge for the year 58 38 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 84 91 The total tax expense comprises: UK tax 43 67 Non-UK tax 127 158 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 84 91 b Tax reconciliations 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m i Reconciliation of the tax expense reported in the Group income statement Profit before tax 578 521 Add: tax expense on share of profits of associates 2 6 Adjusted profit before tax 580 527 Adjusted profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 30% 162 158 Effects of: Other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 31 32 Income not taxable 25 24 Expenses not deductible 53 48 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 1 10 Tax expense on share of profits of associates 2 6 Effect of different tax rates in non-UK businesses 74 63 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 84 91 The effective rate of tax, after adjusting for the net income from associates, is 14.5% 2008: 17.5% as restated see note 2, based on the profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2009 of US$578m 2008: US$521m and the associated tax charge of US$84m 2008: US$91m.
The effective tax rate for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 30% and the differences are explained above.
The standard rate of corporation tax for the Groups UK businesses changed from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.
Experian Annual Report 2009 103 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 10.
Tax expense continued 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m ii Reconciliation of the tax expense reported in the Group income statement to the Benchmark tax charge Group tax expense 84 91 Add: one-off corporation tax credit in respect of prior years 20 Add: tax relief on exceptional items 25 10 Add: tax relief on other non-GAAP measures 53 76 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 2 6 Tax on Benchmark PBT 184 183 The effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT of US$843m 2008: US$783m and the associated tax charge of US$184m 2008: US$183m, excluding the effect of a one-off corporation tax credit of US$20m 2008: US$nil in respect of prior years, is 21.8% 2008: 23.4% as restated see note 2.
The one-off corporation tax credit in the year ended 31 March 2009 has been excluded from the calculation of the effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT as it relates to arrangements involving entities no longer part of the Group.
c Tax taken directly to equity A tax credit of US$60m 2008: charge of US$16m has been taken directly to equity, relating mainly to employee share incentive plans, actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit assets and obligations and foreign exchange.
This includes US$1m 2008:US$nil in respect of current tax and US$59m 2008: charge of US$16m in respect of deferred tax.
d Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
104 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 11.
Discontinued operations As indicated in note 2, the Group disposed of its transaction processing activities in France on 31 October 2008.
As a consequence, the results and cash flows of that business for the year ended 31 March 2008 have been reclassified as discontinued.
Results for discontinued operations 2009 2008 US$m US$m Revenue 201 341 Cost of sales 147 240 Gross profit 54 101 Distribution costs 6 14 Administrative expenses 49 58 Operating expenses 55 72 Operating loss profit on transaction processing activities 1 29 Net financing costs 1 Loss profit before tax of discontinued operations 1 28 Tax charge in respect of pre-tax profit 6 Loss profit after tax of discontinued operations 1 22 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations: Profit on disposal of transaction processing activities in France note 33 b 27 Tax charge in respect of disposal 14 Profit after tax on disposal of discontinued operations 13 Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 12 22 The operating profit of US$26m reported for discontinued operations within note 4 a in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 comprises the operating loss of US$1m on transaction processing activities together with the profit on its disposal of US$27m.
Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 2009 2008 US$m US$m From operating activities 10 18 From investing activities 10 23 Exchange and other movements 3 2 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations 17 3 Experian Annual Report 2009 105 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 12.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in employee trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilutive effect of employee share incentive plans.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
2009 2008 Restated Note 2 Basic earnings per share: US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 48.0 43.3 Exclude: discontinued operations 1.2 2.2 Continuing operations 46.8 41.1 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 15.5 16.4 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 62.3 57.5 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 Diluted earnings per share: US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 47.5 42.7 Exclude: discontinued operations 1.2 2.1 Continuing operations 46.3 40.6 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 15.3 16.2 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 61.6 56.8 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 Earnings: US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 486 437 Exclude: discontinued operations 12 22 Continuing operations 474 415 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 157 166 Benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 631 581 2009 2008 Earnings attributable to minority interests: US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 20 15 Add back of amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to the minority, net of tax 8 6 Benchmark earnings attributable to minority interests non-GAAP measure 28 21 2009 2008 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue: m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 1,012.6 1,008.9 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 12.3 13.4 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 1,024.9 1,022.3 106 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 13.
Dividends 2009 2008 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to equity shareholders during the year: First interim paid in January 2009 2008: February 2008 6.75 68 6.50 66 Second interim paid in July 2008 2008: July 2007 12.00 121 11.50 116 Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 18.75 189 18.00 182 Full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 20.00 18.50 187 A dividend of 13.25 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 24 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 June 2009 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 6.75 US cents per ordinary share paid in January 2009, comprises the full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 20.00 US cents.
Unless shareholders elect by 26 June 2009 to receive US dollars, their dividends will be paid in sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US dollars to sterling on 3 July 2009.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place as part of the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group in October 2006, shareholders in the Company can elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made an IAS election, or are deemed to have made an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
The employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$2m 2008: US$2m.
Goodwill 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 3,605 2,219 Differences on exchange 521 118 Additions through business combinations note 33 a 101 1,272 Reduction in goodwill relating to tax losses note 8 1 2 Disposals 59 2 At 31 March 3,125 3,605 Additions through business combinations are stated after an increase in goodwill of US$11m 2008: decrease of US$9m in respect of adjustments to deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions.
There have been no impairments of goodwill in the current or prior years and, at the balance sheet date, goodwill has been allocated to CGUs as follows: North America US$1,534m 2008: US$1,474m, Latin America US$789m 2008: US$1,033m, UK & Ireland US$544m 2008: US$711m and EMEA Asia Pacific US$258m 2008: US$387m.
Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation and annual impairment testing are given in note 2.
Experian Annual Report 2009 107 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 15.
Other intangible assets Internally Internal use generated Acquisition Databases software software intangibles Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 887 169 251 1,200 2,507 Differences on exchange 113 26 52 189 380 Additions through business combinations note 33 a 2 61 63 Other additions 153 41 44 238 Disposal of subsidiaries 18 41 1 60 Other disposals 74 21 7 9 111 At 31 March 2009 855 145 195 1,062 2,257 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2008 504 99 143 288 1,034 Differences on exchange 72 13 33 44 162 Charge for the year 139 30 34 132 335 Disposal of subsidiaries 13 18 1 32 Other disposals 73 20 6 8 107 At 31 March 2009 498 83 120 367 1,068 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 383 70 108 912 1,473 Net Book Value at 31 March 2009 357 62 75 695 1,189 Acquisition intangibles includes the net book value of customer and advertiser relationships of US$487m together with other assets which comprise trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
Internally Internal use generated Acquisition Databases software software intangibles Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2007 666 137 218 571 1,592 Differences on exchange 21 9 9 51 90 Additions through business combinations 102 5 1 578 686 Other additions 148 36 55 239 Disposals 50 18 32 100 At 31 March 2008 887 169 251 1,200 2,507 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2007 418 82 122 166 788 Differences on exchange 7 6 4 1 18 Charge for the year 129 29 41 121 320 Disposals 50 18 24 92 At 31 March 2008 504 99 143 288 1,034 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 248 55 96 405 804 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 383 70 108 912 1,473 Acquisition intangibles includes the net book value of customer and advertiser relationships of US$600m together with other assets which comprise trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
108 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 16.
Property, plant and equipment Short Freehold leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 335 122 680 1,137 Differences on exchange 64 - 97 161 Additions through business combinations note 33 a - - 1 1 Other additions 1 2 74 77 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 - 96 98 Other disposals 1 1 36 38 Transfers 3 - 3 At 31 March 2009 272 123 523 918 Depreciation At 1 April 2008 68 26 439 533 Differences on exchange 9 - 64 73 Charge for the year 8 6 80 94 Disposal of subsidiaries - - 83 83 Other disposals - 1 31 32 At 31 March 2009 67 31 341 439 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 267 96 241 604 Net Book Value at 31 March 2009 205 92 182 479 Short Freehold leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2007 287 115 563 965 Differences on exchange 11 1 30 42 Additions through business combinations 33 - 36 69 Other additions 4 6 95 105 Disposals - - 44 44 At 31 March 2008 335 122 680 1,137 Depreciation At 1 April 2007 55 19 372 446 Differences on exchange 5 1 20 26 Charge for the year 8 6 88 102 Disposals - - 41 41 At 31 March 2008 68 26 439 533 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 232 96 191 519 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 267 96 241 604 The Group leases plant and equipment under a number of finance lease agreements.
At the end of each of the leases the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$9m 2008: US$18m.
Experian Annual Report 2009 109 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 17.
Investments in associates 2009 2008 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 295 286 Differences on exchange 1 Additions 29 5 Share of profit after tax including a pre-tax exceptional gain of US$nil 2008: US$3m note 8 42 50 Dividends received 28 36 Acquisition of controlling stake in associate 10 Write-down of investment in Japan 5 At 31 March 332 295 Investments in associates at 31 March 2009 include goodwill of US$224m 2008: US$228m.
The Groups share of cumulative retained profits of associated undertakings at 31 March 2009 is US$155m 2008: US$141m.
The Groups principal interest in associated undertakings is a 20% holding of FARES, which in incorporated in the USA.
At 31 March 2009, the Groups share of the assets of FARES amounted to US$500m 2008: US$497m and its share of liabilities is US$202m 2008: US$202m.
The Groups share of the revenue of FARES for the year ended 31 March 2009 is US$237m 2008: US$249m and its share of profit after tax US$46m 2008: US$50m.
First American Corporation, which holds the balance of the capital of FARES, has the right to acquire from Experian its interest in FARES at a purchase price pursuant to a specified formula based on the after tax earnings of FARES.
Whilst First American Corporation is now able to exercise this right, no such notice had been received at 31 March 2009.
Experian can elect to delay completion of the transaction for a maximum period of two years following First American Corporation giving such notice.
The Groups interests in other associated undertakings are not individually material but include additions in the year ended 31 March 2009 of US$29m, in respect of a 40% stake in DP Information Group in Singapore and an investment in Japan with CCB.
Singapore and Japan are the respective countries of incorporation of these businesses.
Inventories 2009 2008 US$m US$m Work in progress 2 2 Finished goods 2 2 4 4 19.
Trade and other receivables a The analysis of trade and other receivables disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 546 768 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 25 24 Less: other provisions in respect of trade receivables 17 19 Trade receivables net 504 725 Amounts owed by associates 2 3 VAT recoverable 1 1 Other prepayments and accrued income 231 5 302 9 738 5 1,031 9 The accounting policies for loans and receivables set out in note 2 have been applied to financial instruments of US$590m 2008: US$856m within the above items.
VAT recoverable of US$1m 2008: US$1m and prepayments of US$152m 2008: US$183m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other receivables and the book value stated above.
All noncurrent trade and other receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
110 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 19.
Trade and other receivables continued b The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 312 4 327 4 Sterling 177 306 Brazilian real 89 87 Euro 93 250 4 Other 67 1 61 1 738 5 1,031 9 c Trade receivables of US$366m 2008: US$530m were neither past due nor impaired and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2009 2008 US$m US$m New customers of less than six months standing 24 41 Existing customers of more than six months standing with no defaults in the past 336 478 Existing customers of more than six months standing with defaults in the past which were fully recovered 6 11 366 530 None of these trade receivables has been renegotiated in the year 2008: US$nil.
d Trade receivables of US$134m 2008: US$180m were past due but not considered impaired and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2009 2008 US$m US$m Up to three months 108 148 Three to six months 20 20 Over six months 6 12 134 180 e Trade receivables of US$29m 2008: US$39m were considered partially impaired and provided for and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2009 2008 US$m US$m Up to three months 9 7 Three to six months 9 10 Over six months 11 22 29 39 Impairment provision 25 24 4 15 The other classes within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet dates do not include any impaired assets.
Experian Annual Report 2009 111 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 19.
Trade and other receivables continued f Movements on the impairment provision are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 24 14 Differences on exchange 3 1 Additions through business combinations 9 Provision for receivables impairment 13 17 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 6 14 Unused amounts reversed 3 3 At 31 March 25 24 The impairment provision has been determined by reference to the age of the receivable and an assessment of the portion of the receivable expected to be recovered.
Amounts charged and credited to the Group income statement in respect of this provision are included in administrative expenses.
Other provisions in respect of trade receivables mainly comprise credit note provisions.
Cash and cash equivalents a The analysis of cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 127 148 Short-term investments 2 3 129 151 The accounting policies for loans and receivables set out in note 2 have been applied to the above items.
The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2009 is 6.6% 2008: 4.1%.
There is no material difference between the fair value of cash and cash equivalents and the book value stated above.
b Cash at bank and short-term investments of US$129m 2008: US$151m are further analysed by external credit rating where the balance with a counterparty is greater than US$2m: 2009 2008 US$m US$m A rated 66 44 B rated 54 58 Counterparty holding less than US$2m 9 49 129 151 21.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 104 214 VAT and other taxes payable 32 52 Social security costs 78 95 Accruals and deferred income 751 17 818 24 Other creditors 30 25 100 33 995 42 1,279 57 The accounting policies for other financial liabilities set out in note 2 have been applied to financial instruments of US$480m 2008: US$578m within the above items.
VAT and other tax payable of US$32m 2008: US$52m, social security costs of US$78m 2008: US$95m and accruals and deferred income of US$447m 2008: US$474m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other payables and the book value stated above.
All the noncurrent trade and other payables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
112 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 22.
Loans and borrowings a The analysis of loans and borrowings in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m 203m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 308 732 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 518 660 Bank loans 1,480 29 1,409 Bank overdrafts 2 4 Finance lease obligations note 22 c 4 5 6 10 314 2,003 39 2,811 The accounting policies for financial instruments set out in note 2 have been applied to the above items.
There is no material difference between the carrying values of the Groups loans and borrowings and their fair values.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 with a par value of 147m were redeemed.
The balance of these Eurobonds falls due for repayment in July 2009.
The effective interest rate of Eurobonds and Euronotes approximates to the nominal rate indicated above.
The effective interest rate for overdrafts at 31 March 2009 is 2% 2008: 4.6%.
Other than finance lease obligations, all the borrowings of the Group shown above are unsecured.
Finance lease obligations are effectively secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessor in the event of default.
b The carrying amounts of the Groups loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 1,480 29 1,409 Sterling 309 518 1,392 Brazilian real 4 5 6 10 Euro 1 4 314 2,003 39 2,811 c The minimum lease payments payable under finance leases comprise: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Not later than one year 5 7 Later than one year and not later than five years 6 15 Total minimum lease payments 11 22 Future finance charges on finance leases 2 6 Present value of finance leases 9 16 The present value of finance leases falls due: Not later than one year 4 6 Later than one year and not later than five years 5 10 Present value of finance leases 9 16 d Borrowing facilities At 31 March 2009, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$1,050m 2008: US$1,121m which expire more than two years after the balance sheet date.
These facilities are in place for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions.
Experian Annual Report 2009 113 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 23.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure 2009 2008 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 127 147 Bank deposits with maturity greater than three months 29 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 28 43 Debt due within one year 295 29 Finance leases 9 16 Debt due after more than one year 1,990 2,758 Net debt at the end of the financial year 2,110 2,699 Net debt held by: Continuing operations 2,110 2,701 Discontinued operations 2 Net debt at the end of the financial year 2,110 2,699 Net debt by balance sheet caption: Cash and cash equivalents 129 151 Loans and borrowings current 314 39 Loans and borrowings non-current 2,003 2,811 Net debt by balance sheet caption 2,188 2,699 Bank deposits within financial assets 29 Interest payable on borrowings 21 43 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 28 43 Net debt at the end of the financial year 2,110 2,699 24.
Available for sale financial assets a Movements on available for sale financial assets disclosed in the Group balance sheet are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 42 38 Differences on exchange 8 1 Additions 4 Fair value losses 8 1 At 31 March 26 42 b Available for sale financial assets comprise: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Listed equity securities UK sterling denominated 21 34 Listed equity securities North America US dollar denominated 5 8 26 42 The accounting policies for available for sale financial assets set out in note 2 have been applied to the above items.
There is no material difference between the fair values of available for sale financial assets and the book values stated above.
114 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 25.
Other financial assets and liabilities a The analysis of other financial assets and liabilities disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 Other financial assets US$m US$m US$m US$m Bank deposits 29 Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 14 32 24 Derivatives used for hedging 14 32 24 Non-hedging derivatives - interest rate swaps 2 Non-hedging derivatives - foreign exchange contracts 7 4 Assets at fair value through the profit and loss account 7 6 Derivative financial instruments 21 32 6 24 Total other financial assets 21 61 6 24 The bank deposits included above comprise an amount held as collateral against one of the Groups derivative contracts.
Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 20 Derivatives used for hedging 20 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps 1 1 16 5 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 12 32 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 9 74 2 66 Liabilities at fair value through the profit and loss account 22 75 50 71 Derivative financial instruments 22 75 50 91 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 424 583 Total other financial liabilities 22 499 50 674 The accounting policies for financial instruments set out in note 2 have been applied as appropriate to the above items.
There is no material difference between the fair values of these assets and liabilities and the book values stated above.
There are put and call options associated with the shares held by the remaining principal shareholders of Serasa and these are exercisable for a period of five years from June 2012.
Experian Annual Report 2009 115 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 25.
Other financial assets and liabilities continued b The fair value and notional principal amounts at the balance sheet dates in respect of the Groups derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2009 2008 Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Interest rate swaps 46 770 83 1,570 26 977 88 3,443 Equity swaps 29 2 11 21 72 Foreign exchange contracts 7 262 12 380 4 296 32 1,223 53 1,061 97 1,961 30 1,273 141 4,738 c Maturity of derivative financial liabilities: Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years To ta l At 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 14 22 11 5 42 Equity swaps 1 1 2 15 23 11 5 44 Settled on a gross basis foreign exchange contracts 642 642 657 23 11 5 686 Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years To ta l At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 15 5 15 13 12 12 62 Equity swaps 19 5 2 26 34 17 13 12 12 88 Settled on a gross basis foreign exchange contracts 1,223 1,223 1,257 17 13 12 12 1,311 The table above analyses the Groups derivative liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash outflows inflows and accordingly differ from the carrying values and fair values.
d Fair values of other financial assets and liabilities Fair values of derivative financial instruments are set out in note a.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The put option associated with the remaining 30% stake of Serasa is recognised as a liability of US$424m at 31 March 2009 2008: US$583m under IAS 39.
The put is valued at the higher of 95% of the equity value of Serasa or the value of Serasa based on the P E ratio of Experian and the latest earnings of Serasa.
A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to calculate the liability.
The key assumptions in arriving at the value of the put are the equity value of Serasa, the future P E ratio of Experian at the date of exercise, the respective volatilities of Experian and Serasa and the risk free rate in Brazil.
It is also assumed that the put may be exercised in June 2012 and thereafter recorded as a current liability.
Gains in respect of the valuation of the put option since acquisition in June 2007 have been recorded as financing fair value remeasurements and relate to a fall in the expected future Experian P E ratio since acquisition and changes in the risk free rate in Brazil.
The gain in respect of the valuation arising in the year ended 31 March 2009 was US$21m 2008: US$69m with a currency translation gain of US$138m 2008: US$61m loss recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
e Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 9.
116 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 26.
Additional information on financial liabilities a Analysis of liabilities by contractual repricing dates: Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years To ta l At 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,794 3 2 518 2,317 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 632 444 343 174 329 Other derivative financial liabilities 21 23 34 17 2 97 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 424 424 2 Trade and other payables 459 12 9 480 2,066 482 388 191 191 3,318 Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years To ta l At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,448 737 4 1 660 2,850 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 185 210 475 379 209 668 Other derivative financial liabilities 50 15 21 26 9 20 141 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 583 2 Trade and other payables 666 25 23 1 715 2,562 567 523 407 218 12 4,289 1.
These represent the gross notional values of interest rate swaps.
VAT and other tax payable of US$32m 2008: US$52m, social security costs of US$78m 2008: US$95m and certain accruals and deferred income of US$447m 2008: US$474m are included in trade and other payables in note 21 but are excluded from this analysis.
b Analysis of financial liabilities by currency: Brazilian Sterling US dollar real Euro Other Total At 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 827 1,480 9 1 2,317 1 Effect of forward foreign exchange contracts 494 232 262 Other derivative financial liabilities 23 57 16 1 97 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 424 424 2 Trade and other payables 138 209 34 58 41 480 494 1,978 467 337 42 3,318 Brazilian Sterling US dollar real Euro Other Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,392 1,438 16 4 2,850 1 Effect of forward foreign exchange contracts 900 611 222 67 Other derivative financial liabilities 84 55 2 141 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 583 2 Trade and other payables 211 283 76 127 18 715 787 2,387 675 355 85 4,289 1.
These represent the gross notional values of foreign exchange contracts.
Experian Annual Report 2009 117 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 26.
Additional information on financial liabilities continued c Analysis of financial liabilities by interest rate profile: Non-interest Floating Fixed bearing Total At 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,790 527 2,317 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 632 632 Other derivative financial liabilities 97 97 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 424 424 2 Trade and other payables 480 480 1,255 1,159 904 3,318 Non-interest Floating Fixed bearing Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,443 1,407 2,850 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 185 185 Other derivative financial liabilities 141 141 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 583 2 Trade and other payables 33 70 612 715 1,432 1,662 1,195 4,289 1.
This represents the effect of interest rate swaps on the interest rate profile.
d Analysis by maturity profile contractual, undiscounted cash flows : Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years To ta l At 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 321 32 30 1,509 522 2,414 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 25 c 15 23 11 5 44 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 25 c 642 642 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 595 595 1 Trade and other payables 449 18 12 2 1 4 486 1,427 73 53 2,106 518 4 4,181 Less than 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years To ta l At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 127 783 43 41 1,473 701 3,168 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 25 c 34 17 13 12 12 88 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 25 c 1,223 1,223 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 1,003 1,003 1 Trade and other payables 669 26 25 1 1 722 2,053 809 85 55 2,489 713 6,204 1.
Cash flows in respect of VAT, other tax payable, social security costs and accruals are excluded from this analysis.
118 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 27.
Share-based payment arrangements The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
These include options and awards in respect of shares in Experian plc made at or after the demerger in October 2006 together with options and awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into options and awards in respect of shares in Experian plc at the demerger.
Prior to the demerger, Experian employees participated in share-based employee incentive plans in respect of ordinary shares in GUS plc.
On demerger, although certain GUS options and awards vested early, the majority of Experian participants outstanding GUS options and awards rolled over into the Experian equivalent share-based employee incentive plans.
Accordingly the following information relates to options and awards held by the Groups employees including details in respect of Experian share-based employee incentive plans and, where appropriate, GUS share-based employee incentive plans.
Option, award and share prices are disclosed in sterling as this is the currency in which ordinary shares in Experian plc are quoted and ordinary shares in GUS plc were quoted prior to the demerger.
a Share options i Summary of arrangements Experian Share The North America 1 Option Plan Experian Sharesave Plans Stock Option Plan Nature Grant of options Save as you earn plans Grant of options Vesting conditions: Service period 3 and 4 years 1 year for US plan 1, 2 and 3 years 3 or 5 years for other Performance Other n a Saving obligation over the n a vesting period Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date n a n a n a Maximum term 10 years 1, 3.5 or 5.5 years 6 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution 3 Expected departures at grant date 5% 1 year 5% 1 year 0% 3 3 years 30% 2 years 15% 3 5 years 50% 3 years 20% 2 Option exercise price calculation Market price over the 3 15% discount to market price Market price over the dealing days preceding over the 3 dealing days 3 dealing days the grant preceding the grant for preceding the grant US plan 20% discount to market price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant for other plans 1.
The North America Stock Option Plan was a former GUS share option plan which was rolled over into an Experian equivalent plan at the demerger.
The arrangements in respect of other former GUS plans, which were also rolled over into Experian equivalent plans, are broadly similar to those of the equivalent Experian plans.
These former GUS plans comprise The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes and savings related share option plans.
At roll-over, the quantity and exercise price of grants of all such plans were modified to adjust for the difference between the GUS and Experian share prices.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of an Experian plc share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
The stated values for expected departures include participants who did not meet the saving requirement of the plans.
The weighted average share price of options exercised during the year was 4.00 2008: 5.02.
Experian Annual Report 2009 119 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payment arrangements continued ii Information relating to option valuation techniques For the above plans the Black-Scholes model is used to determine an appropriate value of the option grants and inputs into the model are calculated as follows: Expected volatility Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year is assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Volatility for year 4 and beyond is assumed to remain at the long run historic volatility.
Linear interpolation is assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected dividend yield Yields are based on the current consensus analyst forecast figures at the time of grant.
The inputs utilised are an average of the forecast over the next three financial years.
Risk-free rate Rates are obtained from the UK Government Debt Management Office website which details historical prices and yields for gilt strips.
Expected option life to exercise: Experian plans - Options under the Experian Share Option Plan vest 50% after 3 years and 50% after 4 years.
The expected life is 4 years for the 50% that vest after 3 years and 4.85 years for the 50% that vest after 4 years.
Options under the Experian Sharesave Plans have expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Expected option life to exercise: former GUS plans - Options under The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes had expected lives of 4 years, The North America Stock Option Plan had an expected life of 3.75 years and the savings related share option plans had expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Share price on grant date - The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Option exercise price - Exercise price as stated in the terms of each award.
iii Weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models Experian plans Arrangements Experian Share Option Plan Experian Sharesave Plans 2009 2008 2009 2008 Share price on grant date 3.29 5.30 3.65 5.83 Exercise price 3.29 5.22 2.91 4.72 Expected volatility 45.2% 29.5% 36.0% 26.7% Expected dividend yield 3.8% 3.6% 3.0% 3.8% Risk-free rate 3.1% 5.2% 5.1% 5.7% Expected option life to exercise 3.5 years 3.6 years 3.8 years 3.3 years Fair value 0.92 1.08 1.26 1.58 120 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 27.
Share-based payment arrangements continued iv Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options in respect of Experian plc shares Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m Options outstanding at 1 April 30.1 4.85 31.4 4.73 New grants 10.1 3.10 6.3 4.96 1 Forfeitures 4.7 3.65 2.1 5.20 Exercised options 1.4 4.96 4.9 4.09 Expired options 0.3 4.42 0.6 4.88 Options outstanding at 31 March 33.8 4.37 30.1 4.85 Options exercisable at 31 March 6.4 4.27 8.3 4.20 1.
For arrangements which are save as you earn in nature, this includes non-leavers who have not completed the savings requirement.
v Options in respect of Experian plc shares outstanding at the end of the year At 31 March 2009 Weighted Range of Number average exercise of exercise Weighted average remaining lives 1 prices options price m Expected years Contractual years 2-3 2.8 2.91 3.1 3.5 3-4 10.4 3.33 2.4 7.7 4-5 8.6 4.63 0.6 4.2 5-6 10.9 5.35 1.7 5.9 6-7 1.1 6.12 2.4 8.2 33.8 4.37 At 31 March 2008 Weighted Range of Number average exercise of exercise Weighted average remaining lives 1 prices options price m Expected years Contractual years 2-3 0.2 2.85 0.4 1.1 3-4 4.2 3.75 0.6 2.8 4-5 11.9 4.62 1.5 5.1 5-6 12.7 5.34 2.6 6.9 6-7 1.1 6.12 3.4 9.2 30.1 4.85 1.
To the extent that GUS options were rolled over into Experian plans, the inputs for share price at grant date and exercise price were rebased to be comparable with the Experian plc share price at demerger and to reflect the consequent changes to option terms.
Experian Annual Report 2009 121 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payment arrangements continued b Share awards i Summary of arrangements Experian Free Shares Plan and the Experian UK Experian Co-Investment Experian Reinvestment Experian Performance Approved All-Employee Arrangements Plan Plan Share Plan Plan 1 1 Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 4 years 3 to 5 years 5 years 3 years Performance 100% Benchmark profit 50% Benchmark profit 50% Benchmark profit n a performance of Group performance of Group performance of Group assessed against assessed against assessed against 2 3 3 specified targets specified targets specified targets 50% n a 50% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a 4 comparator group Expected outcome Benchmark profit 100% Benchmark profit 80% Benchmark profit 79% n a of meeting performance Unconditional 100% TSR range from 29.6% criteria at grant date to 57.4% Maximum term 4 years 5 years 5 years 3.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures 5% 5% 5% 15% at grant date 1.
T he grant date is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the quantity of the shares award is determined but the underlying value of the award is known at the grant date, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of their issue to participants.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Co-Investment Plan requires Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 6% over a 3 year period.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
This is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Reinvestment Plan and Experian Performance Share Plan requires Benchmark PBT growth at least to exceed 7% over a 3 year period with the condition fully satisfied if Benchmark PBT growth is 14%.
The Experian Performance Share Plan TSR condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the 3 year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc.. 122 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 27.
Share-based payment arrangements continued ii Information relating to share grant valuation techniques The majority of the grants under the Experian share award plans were made on the first day of trading for Experian plc shares in October 2006 and trading was particularly volatile on that day.
The weighted average share price for that days trading was used to determine the value of demerger share awards.
For the former GUS plans the value of awards is determined as the market closing price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the Experian Reinvestment Plan and the former GUS Co-Investment Plan, this occurs after the first year of performance is assessed.
Where appropriate market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Participants in the share award plans have an entitlement to dividend distributions on awarded shares from the issue date until the date of vesting.
The market price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of such future dividend distributions and no modifications are made for dividend distributions or other factors.
iii Reconciliation of Experian plc share awards outstanding Number Number of awards of awards 2009 2008 m m Awards outstanding at 1 April 23.7 24.6 New grants 0.7 2.1 Forfeitures 1.8 2.5 Expired awards 0.6 Vesting 1.2 0.5 Awards outstanding at 31 March 20.8 23.7 Share awards granted in the year had a weighted average fair value of 3.69 2008: 5.67. c Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation 2009 2008 US$m US$m Share options 10 15 Share awards 43 51 Total expense recognised all equity settled 53 66 1 Costs of associated social security obligations 2 10 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 55 76 The expense is reported as follows: Employee cost included in Benchmark PBT 21 22 Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 32 43 Exceptional item other costs incurred relating to the demerger 1 Total expense recognised all equity settled 53 66 Costs of associated social security obligations: Included in Benchmark PBT 2 4 Excluded from Benchmark PBT 6 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 55 76 1.
The costs of associated social security obligations include the costs of derivatives, in the form of equity swaps, entered into in connection with such obligations.
Experian Annual Report 2009 123 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 28.
Retirement benefit assets obligations The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans in a number of countries and provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain former employees.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
Pension arrangements for the Groups UK employees are operated principally through the Experian Pension Scheme which is a defined benefit plan and the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan which is a defined contribution plan.
These plans are governed by trust deeds which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
In North and Latin America, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
There are no other material pension arrangements.
The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this plan is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2007 by independent, qualified actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the plan.
There was a surplus at the date of the latest full actuarial valuation and accordingly no deficit repayment contributions are currently required.
The next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2010.
The disclosures required by IAS 19, which relate to the Groups UK defined benefit pension arrangements only, are as follows: Amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet 2009 2008 Retirement benefit obligations assets funded plans US$m US$m Market value of funded plans assets 595 1,045 Present value of funded plans liabilities 614 863 Deficit in the funded plans 19 Surplus in the funded plans 182 Retirement benefit obligations unfunded plans Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 26 35 Liability for post-retirement healthcare 13 15 Retirement benefit obligations 39 50 Net retirement benefit obligations assets 58 132 The Groups retirement benefit assets and obligations are denominated primarily in sterling.
The Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Experian Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 31 March 2009 was US$22m 2008: US$34m.
Further details of the unfunded pension arrangements for directors appear in the report on directors remuneration.
Amounts recognised in the Group profit and loss account reserve 2009 2008 US$m US$m Current service cost 13 20 Curtailment gain 3 8 Interest on plans liabilities 52 53 Expected return on plans assets 69 76 Total credit to Group income statement 7 11 Actuarial losses gains recognised in Group statement of recognised income and expense 202 15 Total charge credit to Group profit and loss account reserve 195 26 The curtailment gain of US$3m 2008: US$8m arose principally from the restructuring of continuing businesses in the UK.
124 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 28.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued Movements during the year in the net retirement benefit obligations assets recognised in the Group balance sheet 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 132 85 Differences on exchange 9 Total amounts recognised in Group income statement - as disclosed below 7 11 Actuarial losses gains recognised in Group statement of recognised income and expense 202 15 Contributions paid by the Group 14 21 At 31 March 58 132 Expense income recognised in the following lines in the Group income statement 2009 2008 US$m US$m Administrative costs after exceptional income of US$3m 2008: US$5m 10 12 Net financing income 17 23 Total credit to Group income statement 7 11 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense 2009 2008 US$m US$m Gains on liabilities 34 116 Losses on assets 236 101 Total losses gains included in Group statement of recognised income and expense in year 202 15 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses 2009 2008 US$m US$m Continuing operations 60 142 Discontinued operations 81 81 Total cumulative actuarial losses gains 141 61 Changes in the present value of the total defined benefit obligations 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 913 984 Differences on exchange 252 11 Additions through business combinations 6 Current service cost 13 20 Interest on plans liabilities 52 53 Settlement or curtailment 3 8 Actuarial gains on liabilities 34 116 Contributions paid by employees 4 6 Contributions paid from outside the Group 3 Benefits paid 40 46 At 31 March 653 913 The total defined benefit obligations of US$653m 2008: US$913m include US$614m 2008: US$863m in respect of the Groups funded arrangements and US$39m 2008: US$50m in respect of the Groups unfunded arrangements.
Experian Annual Report 2009 125 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 28.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued Changes in the market value of the plans assets 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 1,045 1,069 Differences on exchange 261 11 Additions through business combinations 6 Expected return on plans assets 69 76 Actuarial losses on assets 236 101 Contributions paid by the Group 14 21 Contributions paid by employees 4 6 Contributions paid from outside the Group 3 Benefits paid 40 46 At 31 March 595 1,045 The actual return on plans assets was a loss of US$167m 2008: loss of US$25m.
Contributions expected to be paid to the Experian defined benefit pension plans during the next financial year are US$11m by the Group and US$3m by employees.
Actuarial assumptions The valuations used at 31 March 2009 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Watson Wyatt Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2009 2008 % % Rate of inflation 3.4 3.6 Rate of increase for salaries 5.2 5.4 Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.4 3.6 Rate of increase for medical costs 6.5 6.5 Discount rate 6.9 6.9 The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, i. e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this assumption increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligations would decrease increase by approximately US$11m and the annual current service cost would remain unchanged.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
In the case of the Groups principal plan, the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are primarily in sterling and have a maturity of some 18 years.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the PA92 series year of use tables with medium cohort mortality improvement projections and an age rating of 1 year.
This includes an explicit allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy medium cohort projections.
The average expectation of life on retirement at age 65 in normal health is assumed to be: 2009 2008 years years For a male currently aged 65 21.3 21.2 For a female currently aged 65 24.2 24.1 For a male currently aged 50 22.2 22.2 For a female currently aged 50 25.0 25.0 An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2009 by approximately US$3m.
The assumptions in respect of discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
The IAS 19 valuation, in respect of post-retirement healthcare benefits, additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this assumption increased decreased by 1.0% per annum the obligation would increase decrease by US$1m and the current service cost would remain unchanged.
126 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 28.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued Assets of the Groups defined benefit plans and their expected long-term rates of return Fair value Return Fair value Return 2009 2009 2008 2008 US$m % p. a. US$m % p. a.
Equities 345 8.7 693 9.1 Fixed interest securities 214 6.0 343 5.7 Other 36 6.5 9 5.1 595 7.5 1,045 8.0 The overall return has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest securities are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
Expected returns on equities and other assets reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
History of experience gains and losses 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of defined benefit obligations 653 913 984 1,989 2,025 Fair value of plans assets 595 1,045 1,069 2,020 1,814 Net pension obligations assets 58 132 85 31 211 Experience adjustment arising on defined benefit obligations: Losses gains 1 8 5 2 110 Experience adjustment arising on plans assets: Losses gains 236 101 53 241 29.
Deferred tax a Net deferred tax liabilities assets 2009 2008 US$m US$m At 1 April 144 35 Differences on exchange 37 11 Income statement charge note 10 58 38 Business combinations note 33 a 13 90 Tax charged to equity 59 16 Disposal of subsidiaries note 33 b 3 Transfers 24 At 31 March 122 144 Net deferred tax liabilities assets have been presented in the Group balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 13 26 Deferred tax liabilities 135 170 122 144 The movement in gross deferred tax assets and liabilities, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is shown below.
Experian Annual Report 2009 127 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Deferred tax continued b Deferred tax assets Share option Other Accelerated and award Asset temporary depreciation Intangibles plans provisions T ax losses differences To ta l US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 9 115 9 36 42 52 263 Differences on exchange 3 3 14 20 2 42 Income statement credit charge 16 71 13 22 53 72 45 Business combinations 7 7 Tax charged to equity 3 56 59 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 3 Transfers 15 48 34 29 At 31 March 2009 22 63 22 17 144 268 Share option Other Accelerated and award Asset temporary depreciation Intangibles plans provisions T ax losses differences To ta l US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 3 128 20 26 8 119 304 Differences on exchange 2 1 1 2 Income statement credit charge 6 16 9 35 29 13 Business combinations 3 17 9 29 Tax charged to equity 11 11 Transfers 48 48 At 31 March 2008 9 115 9 36 42 52 263 c Deferred tax liabilities Share option Other Property Accelerated and award temporary valuations depreciation Intangibles plans T ax losses differences To ta l US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 5 37 184 1 4 176 407 Differences on exchange 8 2 48 37 79 Income statement charge credit 13 6 57 1 4 82 13 Business combinations 20 20 Transfers 36 144 79 29 At 31 March 2009 5 243 142 390 Share option Other Property Accelerated and award temporary valuations depreciation Intangibles plans T ax losses differences To ta l US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 5 34 70 1 5 154 269 Differences on exchange 12 1 13 Income statement charge credit 1 18 1 43 25 Business combinations 120 1 119 Tax charged to equity 5 5 Transfers 2 26 24 At 31 March 2008 5 37 184 1 4 176 407 128 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 29.
Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$430m 2008: US$32m in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$16m 2008: US$25m in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,062m 2008: US$2,004m have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets expected to reverse within the next year of US$129m 2008: US$128m and deferred tax liabilities expected to reverse within the next year of US$94m 2008: US$57m.
Provisions Restructuring Contingent and costs other liabilities Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 51 60 111 Differences on exchange 12 15 27 Amount charged in the year 92 92 Utilised 96 96 Impact of discount rate movement 1 1 At 31 March 2009 36 45 81 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 1 14 15 Disclosed within current liabilities 35 31 66 At 31 March 2009 36 45 81 Restructuring Contingent and costs other liabilities Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 39 39 Differences on exchange 1 5 6 Amount charged in the year 45 1 46 Additions through business combinations 54 54 Utilised 35 35 Impact of discount rate movement 1 1 At 31 March 2008 51 60 111 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 8 19 27 Disclosed within current liabilities 43 41 84 At 31 March 2008 51 60 111 The restructuring provision at 31 March 2009 of US$35m 2008: US$43m disclosed within current liabilities included US$24m 2008: US$31m in connection with the programme of cost efficiency measures and US$11m 2008: US$12m in respect of obligations relating to the Groups withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK.
The restructuring provision at 31 March 2009 of US$1m 2008: US$8m disclosed within non-current liabilities related to obligations connected with the Groups withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK.
Contingent and other liabilities comprise liabilities of Serasa, in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised at fair value on the acquisition of that company.
Adjustments to the fair values are made as the exposures are concluded.
Fair values of provisions at the balance sheet dates do not materially differ from the recognised book values.
Experian Annual Report 2009 129 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
Reconciliation of movements in total equity Attributable Equity Number of Share Share Retained Other to equity minority To ta l shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity Year ended 31 March 2009 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 1,023.4 102 1,442 16,065 15,653 1,956 161 2,117 Profit for the financial year 486 486 20 506 Net expense recognised directly in equity for the year 153 384 537 44 581 Employee share incentive plans: value of employee services 53 53 53 proceeds from shares issued 1.9 7 7 7 Exercise of share options 11 20 9 9 Minority interest arising on business combinations 2 2 Disposal of minority interest 1 1 Equity dividends paid during the year note 13 189 189 189 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 24 24 At 31 March 2009 1,025.3 102 1,449 16,251 16,017 1,785 114 1,899 Attributable Equity Number of Share Share Retained Other to equity minority To ta l shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity Year ended 31 March 2008 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 1,022.3 102 1,435 16,341 15,773 2,105 2 2,107 Profit for the financial year 437 437 15 452 Net income recognised directly in equity for the year 2 89 87 87 Employee share incentive plans: value of employee services 65 65 65 proceeds from shares issued 1.1 7 7 7 Exercise of share options 3 37 34 34 Liability on put option over minority interests 591 591 591 Minority interest arising on business combinations 155 155 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 6 6 6 Equity dividends paid during the year note 13 182 182 182 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 11 11 At 31 March 2008 1,023.4 102 1,442 16,065 15,653 1,956 161 2,117 The balance classified as share capital is the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
Further details relating to the authorised and issued share capital of Experian plc at the balance sheet dates, together with details of ordinary shares issued since the balance sheet date, are contained in note K to the parent company financial statements.
The share premium account comprises the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued i by way of the share offer in October 2006, net of expenses, and ii by way of the subsequent issue of ordinary shares in connection with employee share option plans.
The balance on this account is not available for distribution.
Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
The composition of and movements on other reserves are explained below.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
130 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 31.
Reconciliation of movements in total equity continued The analysis of other reserves is as follows: Total Own Merger Hedging Translation other shares reserve reserve reserve reserves Year ended 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 132 15,682 11 150 15,653 Exercise of share options 20 20 Net expense recognised directly in equity for the year 384 384 At 31 March 2009 112 15,682 11 234 16,017 Total Own Merger Hedging Translation other shares reserve reserve reserve reserves Year ended 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 163 15,682 18 54 15,773 Exercise of share options 37 37 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 6 6 Net income recognised directly in equity for the year 7 96 89 At 31 March 2008 132 15,682 11 150 15,653 At 31 March 2009, the balance on the own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company held by the Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan to satisfy certain of the Groups obligations under its share incentive plans.
During the year ended 31 March 2008 these trusts purchased 509,518 shares in the Company at a cost of US$6m.
The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the global offer and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Experian Annual Report 2009 131 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m a Cash generated from operations Profit after tax 494 430 Adjustments for: Tax expense 84 91 Share of post-tax profits of associates 42 50 Net financing costs 77 154 Operating profit 613 625 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 6 3 Loss on sale of other intangible assets 3 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 3 Depreciation and amortisation 420 406 Goodwill adjustment 1 2 Write down of investment in associate 5 Charge in respect of equity incentive plans 52 66 Change in working capital note 32 b 7 23 Exceptional items included in working capital 8 9 Cash generated from operations 1,102 1,134 b Change in working capital Increase in inventories 2 Decrease increase in receivables 24 51 Decrease increase in payables 11 79 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in Group income statement 4 5 Change in working capital 7 23 c Interest paid Interest paid on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 155 166 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 2 2 Total interest paid 157 168 d Purchase of other intangible assets Databases 153 148 Internally generated software 38 42 Internal use software 39 32 Purchase of other intangible assets 230 222 e Acquisition of subsidiaries Purchase of subsidiary undertakings including acquisition expenses note 33 a 124 1,726 Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings note 33 a 4 60 Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions made in previous years 59 54 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries 179 1,720 f Disposal of subsidiaries Proceeds of disposal of transaction processing activities in France note 33 b 191 Sale of other businesses note 33 c 6 Cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 191 6 g Financing Debt due within one year: Repayment of borrowings 29 746 New borrowings 29 Debt due after more than one year: Repayment of borrowings 249 New borrowings 71 1,409 Net cash flow from debt financing 207 692 132 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 32.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m h Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 127 148 Short-term investments 2 3 Cash and cash equivalents in Group balance sheet 129 151 Bank overdrafts 2 4 Cash and cash equivalents in Group cash flow statement 127 147 Cash and cash equivalents held by: Continuing operations 127 145 Discontinued operations 2 Cash and cash equivalents in Group cash flow statement 127 147 i Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items Total exceptional items note 8 117 55 Working capital movements 8 9 Asset write-offs 15 12 Losses gains in respect of associates 5 3 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 3 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 102 37 j Reconciliation of cash generated from operations to operating cash flow non-GAAP measure Cash generated from operations note 32 a 1,102 1,134 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 75 99 Purchase of other intangible assets note 32 d 230 222 Dividends received from associates 28 36 Net cash outflow from exceptional items note 32 i 102 37 Operating cash flow 927 886 k Major non-cash transactions The Group did not enter into any new finance lease arrangements during the year 2008: US$nil.
Finance lease obligations of Serasa at the date of acquisition in June 2007 were US$19m.
Experian Annual Report 2009 133 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 33.
Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2009 On 10 December 2008, the Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of SearchAmerica, Inc. a leading provider of payment prediction data and analytics to the healthcare industry in the USA, for US$90m.
On 1 December 2008, a company in which the Group has a 75% interest acquired the whole of the issued share capital of KreditInform Pty Ltd, a leading provider of commercial credit information and analytics in South Africa.
There were no other individually material acquisitions.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of US$14m to the Group for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2009.
The acquired businesses contributed aggregate profit after tax of US$4m to the Group for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2009.
If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2008, further revenues of US$22m would have been reported.
It has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit after tax had the acquired entities been owned from 1 April 2008, due to the acquired entities having different accounting policies prior to acquisition and previously reporting to different period ends.
Details of the net assets acquired at provisional fair values are as follows: Book value Fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 63 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Deferred tax assets 7 Trade and other receivables 8 8 Cash and cash equivalents 4 4 Trade and other payables 12 12 Current tax liabilities 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 8 20 8 50 Goodwill 90 140 Satisfied by: Cash 122 Acquisition expenses 2 Deferred consideration 8 Recognition of minority interest 8 140 The book values above are the carrying amounts of each class of asset and liability, determined in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the acquisition.
The fair values set out above contain certain provisional amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2009 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments in respect of acquisitions made during the year resulted in an increase in book value of US$58m and arose principally in respect of acquisition intangibles.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
Deferred consideration is primarily payable in cash up to three years after the date of acquisition and in some cases is contingent on the businesses acquired achieving revenue and profit targets.
The deferred consideration settled during the year on acquisitions made in previous years was US$59m.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2009 that relate to acquisitions that were effected in the current or previous years.
134 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 8 43 44 72 Group financial statements 33.
Acquisitions and disposals continued b Disposal of transaction processing activities in France US$m Goodwill 57 Other intangible assets 28 Property, plant and equipment 15 Deferred tax assets 3 Trade and other receivables 138 Trade and other payables 103 Current tax liabilities 10 Equity minority interests 1 Net assets disposed 127 Proceeds received 203 Transaction costs, warranty settlements and other disposal related charges 52 Recycled cumulative exchange gain 3 Profit on disposal 27 Cash flow from disposal: Proceeds received 203 Costs paid 12 Net cash inflow 191 As indicated in note 11, the transaction processing activities in France were sold in October 2008. c Other disposals There was a loss of US$3m on the disposal of a number of the Groups smaller businesses with no associated cash flow.
Experian Annual Report 2009 135 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 2009 2008 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring in: Less than one year 46 62 Between one and five years 107 128 More than five years 54 54 207 244 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Capital commitments 2009 2008 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 3 4 Intangible assets 19 11 22 15 36.
Contingencies In North America and Latin America, there are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving Experian which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Related parties The ultimate parent company of the Group is Experian plc which is incorporated in Jersey.
Significant subsidiary and associate undertakings at 31 March 2009 are shown in note Q to the financial statements of that company.
The Groups only material related parties are associates and key management personnel.
Transactions with such parties during the year were as follows: a Associates The Group made net sales and recharges, under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties, to FARES and its associate First Advantage Corporation of US$25m 2008: US$28m.
Amounts receivable from FARES are shown within note 19.
These amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received in the year in connection with the Groups trading with these entities.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by associates.
b Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 7.
Other than remuneration, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families in either the current or previous year.
