Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information Note 1: Corporate information Organisation and operation Ferrexpo plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered office at 24 King Street, London, SW1Y 6QL, UK.
Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate a mine and processing plant near Kremenchuk in Ukraine, an interest in a port in Odessa and a sales and marketing company in Switzerland and Kiev.
The Groups operations are vertically integrated from iron ore mining through to iron ore concentrate and pellet production.
The Groups mineral properties lie within the Kremenchuk Magnetic Anomaly and are currently being exploited at the Gorishne-Plavninsky and Lavrikovsky deposits.
These deposits are being jointly mined as one mining complex.
The Groups operations are largely conducted through Ferrexpo plcs principal subsidiary, Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
The Group comprises of Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below: Equity interest owned at 31 December 2009 2008 Name Country of incorporation Principal activity % % 1 Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation Ukraine Iron ore mining 97.3 97.1 2 Ferrexpo AG Switzerland Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 3 DP Ferrotrans Ukraine Trade, transportation services 97.3 97.1 3 United Energy Company LLC Ukraine Holding company 97.3 97.1 1 Ferrexpo UK Limited England Finance 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Services Limited Ukraine Management services and procurement 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Hong Kong Limited China Marketing services 100.0 100.0 4 Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK LLC Ukraine Iron ore mining 98.6 98.5 4 Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK LLC Ukraine Iron ore mining 98.6 1 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo AG.
For details in respect to the change in equity interest we refer to note 15.
2 Ferrexpo AG was the holding company of the Group until, as a result of the pre-IPO restructuring: Ferrexpo plc became the holding company on 24 May 2007.
3 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
4 The Groups interest in this entity is held through both Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
The Group also holds an interest of 49.9% 2008: 49.9% in TIS Ruda, a Ukrainian port located on the Black Sea.
As this is an associate, it is accounted for using the equity method of accounting and further disclosed in note 14.
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for the years presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and available-for-sale financial instruments, the latter measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, the former measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008, except for those changes detailed in note 3.
Risks in relation to the facilities and re-financing are contained in the Business Review of this report.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plcs, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Business combinations Subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains effective control, and are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Similarly, subsidiaries disposed of are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group ceases to hold effective control.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 70 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Subsidiaries acquired from entities under common control, such that the ultimate controlling party has not changed as a result of the transaction, are fully consolidated from the earliest period presented, but not before the date that they came under common control.
As there is currently no specific IFRS guidance relating to this issue the Group has developed a policy that is consistent with the pronouncements under UK GAAP.
The Groups subsidiaries are accounted for using the pooling of interests method of accounting whereby net assets are pooled at their historic carrying value.
This has been applied in the accounting for Ferrexpo plcs interest in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation, the principal subsidiary.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries The Group has adopted the parent extension concept method of accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries.
The differences between the carrying values of net assets attributable to interests in subsidiaries acquired or disposed of and the consideration given or received for such increases are recorded as goodwill.
Investments in associates The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Groups net investment in the associate.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
The reporting dates of the associates and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associates accounting policies conform to those used by the Group.
Functional and presentational currencies Based on the economic substance of the underlying business transactions and circumstances relevant to the parent, the functional currency of the parent has been determined to be the US dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency based on its own circumstances.
The Group has chosen the US dollar as its presentation currency and Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation the principal subsidiary has determined that its functional currency is Ukrainian hryvnia.
Foreign currency translation For individual subsidiary Company accounts, transactions in foreign currencies ie other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and non-monetary assets and liabilities at the historic rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
For presentation of Group consolidated accounts, if the functional currency of a subsidiary is different to the presentation currency as at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of this entity are translated into the presentation currency at the rate ruling at the reporting date and the income statement is translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to the particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods including pellet sales and other sales Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Risks and rewards of the ownership of goods passes when title for the goods passes to the customer.
This is determined by the terms of the sales agreement.
Typically, sales are made FOB Free On Board, CIF Cargo Insurance and Freight or DAF Delivery At Frontier.
Other sales include the processing and sale of ore and ore concentrate, the sale of parts, materials and crushed rocks and the repair and rental of railway wagons.
Rendering of services Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised when services are complete.
Sales of services primarily include repairs and spare parts, canteen revenue and recharges to local customers for electricity consumption and railway usage.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
com 71 Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Operating foreign exchange gains and losses are those items that are directly related to the production and sale of pellets eg trade receivables, trade payables on operating expenditure.
Non-operating gains and losses are those associated with the Groups financing and treasury activities.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise the interest expense on borrowings and other financial liabilities.
Taxes Current income tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount estimated to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, if it is probable that they become taxable, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax VAT except: where VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is disclosed in the note 28 to the financial statements.
Overdue VAT receivable balances are not discounted.
Equity Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
com 72 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves as the employee benefit trust reserve and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in other capital reserves.
Financial assets Derivative financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities promissory notes, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the consideration given or received plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date ie the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets All investments, except for investments in associates are accounted for as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as either loans or receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised.
At this time the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is recognised in the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available-for-sale reserve.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the reporting date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, instruments with a fixed maturity are remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any transaction costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Financial liabilities which do not have a fixed maturity are subsequently carried at fair value.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
com 73 Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, i. e. whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all eligible assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs relating to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost at the date of transition to IFRS hereinafter referred to as the cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
com 74 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Upon recognition, items of property, plant and equipment are divided into components, which represent items with a significant value that can be allocated to a separate depreciation period.
Overhaul costs also represent a component of an asset.
Assets are initially recognised in assets under construction and then transferred to the appropriate categories on completion.
Major spare parts and stand-by equipment qualify as property, plant and equipment when they are expected to be used during more than one period.
Expenditure incurred after the properties have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhaul costs, are normally charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred.
In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that the expenditure results in future economic benefits, the expenditure is capitalised as an additional cost.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life which is calculated with due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Except for mining assets which are depreciated using the unit of production method, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Buildings: 2050 years Plant and equipment: 515 years Vehicles: 715 years Fixtures and fittings: 2.510 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
On acquisition the cost of property, plant and equipment is capitalised on the statement of financial position.
Stripping costs included in mining assets and assets under construction Stripping costs in relation to mine exploration, evaluation and development costs incurred up to the commencement of the production are included in assets under construction.
Stripping work comprises overburden removed at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages.
After the commencement of production, the respective pre-production stripping costs are transferred to mining assets and depreciated using a unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
The production stripping costs are generally charged to the income statement as variable production costs.
The production stripping costs are only capitalised if the stripping activities are related to a betterment of the mining property and the duration of the future benefits is ascertained without a high degree of judgement.
If capitalised, the production stripping costs are included in mining assets and depreciated using the same methodology as for the capitalised pre-production stripping costs see above.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase is expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but rather tested annually for impairment through a value-in-use calculation.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Refer to note 4 for details of the approach taken and assumptions used in impairment testing.
To the extent that the fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets and liabilities is greater than the cost of investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, including mineral licences, which are acquired by the Group and which have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation Intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise mineral licence acquisition costs, which are amortised on a unit of production basis.
All other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, ranging between one and 20 years.
com 75 Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows: Raw materials at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished goods and work in progress at cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs determined by an independent expert in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted where material and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
Pension obligations and other employee benefits The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian state pension scheme at the statutory rates in effect during the year, based on gross salary payments: such expense is charged in the period the related salaries are earned.
In addition, the Group has a legal obligation to compensate the Ukrainian State Pension Fund for additional pensions paid to certain categories of the current and former employees of the Group.
These obligations being unfunded are substantially similar to those typically existing under an unfunded defined benefit plan.
The Group also makes contributions to the defined benefit pension fund for employees of Ferrexpo AG.
Costs relating to these plans are accrued in the consolidated financial statements using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Management uses actuarial techniques in calculating the liability related to this retirement obligation at each reporting date.
com 76 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Gains and losses resulting from the use of external actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of the defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans and the higher of planned assets obligation for funded schemes.
These gains or losses are recognised as income or expense over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not recognised reduced by the past service cost not yet recognised.
Earnings per share The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding shares held in treasury.
For the current and prior year periods, basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares as defined above.
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and the treasury shares held by the Group.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
All share awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is dependent upon a market condition.
In these cases, the awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The LTIPs are share-based schemes whereby certain senior management and executives receive rewards based on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Group compared with a group of companies which operate within a similar environment.
The cost of equity-settled awards is measured as described above together with an estimate of future social security contributions payable in respect of this value.
Where the granting of an LTIP is subject to the satisfaction of certain market conditions, a vesting charge is recognised irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where an award terminates before the performance period is complete, any unamortised expense is recognised immediately.
Events after the reporting date Events after the reporting date that provide additional information on the Groups position at the reporting date adjusting events are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
Events after the reporting date that are not adjusting events are disclosed in the notes when material.
Note 3: New accounting policies The Group adopted the following new and amended standards as at 1 January 2009: Standards affecting presentation and disclosures IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures amendments The amendments to the standard outline additional disclosure requirements for fair value measurements and in respect of the liquidity risk.
The Group adopted the amendments resulting in the disclosure of fair value hierarchy table in the notes to the financial statements.
The Group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in these amendments.
com 77 IFRS 8 Operating Segments new This standard requires disclosure of information about the Groups operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Group.
Adoption of this standard did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group determined that it only has one operating segment under the new standard.
Additional description of the operating segment under IFRS 8 and the segments under IAS 14 Segment Reporting are shown in note 5.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements which are contained on pages 64 and 65 of the financial statements.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised The standard has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets and the Group has amended its accounting policy accordingly.
In accordance with the transitional requirements of the standard this has been adopted as a prospective change.
Therefore, borrowing costs have been capitalised on qualifying assets with a commencement date on or after 1 January 2009.
No changes have been made for borrowing costs incurred prior to this date that have been expensed.
None of the above stated standards affected the reported result or financial position.
Standards and interpretations adopted with no effect on presentation and disclosure IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations amendments The standard has been amended to clarify the definition of vesting conditions and to prescribe the accounting treatment of an award that is effectively cancelled because a non-vesting condition is not satisfied.
The adoption of this amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation amendments The standards have been amended to allow a limited scope exception for puttable financial instruments to be classified as equity if they fulfil a number of specified criteria.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items amendments The amendments address the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
It clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as hedged item.
The Group has concluded that the amendment had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not entered into any such hedges.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Group has elected not to early adopt the following revised and amended standards: IFRS 3 Business combinations revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised The revised standards were issued in January 2008 and become effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The changes will affect future acquisitions or loss of control and transactions with minority interests.
The standards may be early-adopted however the Group does not intend to take advantage of this possibility.
IAS 7 Statement of cash flows amendments The revision to IAS 27 principally affects the accounting for transactions or events that result in change in the Groups interest in subsidiaries.
The amendments will be adopted for the Groups financial statements for the period beginning 1 January 2010.
IAS 28 Investments in associates revised The principle adopted under IAS 27 2008 that a loss of control is recognised as a disposal and re-acquisition any retained interests at fair value is extended by consequential amendment to IAS 28.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption.
The revised standard will be adopted for the Groups financial period beginning 1 January 2010.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners This interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 with early application permitted.
It provides guidance on how to account for non-cash distributions to owners.
The interpretation clarifies when to recognise a liability, how to measure it and the associated assets, and when to derecognise the asset and liability.
The Group does not expect IFRIC 17 to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements as the Group has not made non-cash distributions to shareholders in the past.
com 78 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 4: Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates are based on information available as at the date of authorising the consolidated financial statements for issue.
Actual results, therefore, could differ from those estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes: Property, plant and equipment The determination of fair value and value-in-use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment items of the Group were subject to a cost as at 1 January 2003, the date of Groups transition to IFRS, performed by independent appraisers.
The value of buildings and construction was determined with reference to the market value.
Buildings and construction of a specialised nature were valued at their depreciated replacement cost.
This fair value has been adopted by the Group as the deemed cost at the transition date to IFRS.
The calculation of the average stripping ratio is based on the total estimated proved and probable reserves and is used to determine whether stripping costs are capitalised as mining assets or whether capitalised costs are released through the income statement.
Goodwill and other intangibles Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
Formal impairment tests for all other assets are performed when there is an indication of impairment.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
The Group conducts annually an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment.
External factors, such as changes in expected future processes, costs and other market factors are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any indication of impairment exists an estimate of the assets recoverable amount is calculated.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of fair value less direct costs to sell and the assets value-in-use.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the statement of financial position to its recoverable amount.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
Fair value for mining assets is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using assumptions that an independent market participant may take into account.
These cash flows are discounted by an appropriate discount rate to arrive at a net present value of the asset.
Value-in-use is determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value-in-use is determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the value-in-use calculation is likely to give a different result usually lower to a fair value calculation.
In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred to as cash-generating units.
Cash-generating units are the smallest identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to one cash-generating unit.
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
For the year ended 31 December 2009 cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 20 years.
The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates and assumptions, including: Estimates assumptions Basis Future production Proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and, in certain cases, expansion projects Commodity prices Contract prices, and longer-term price protocol estimates Exchange rates Current market exchange rates Discount rates Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 79 Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values.
The judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Defined benefit pension liability The valuation for defined benefit superannuation schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Provision for site restoration The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of site restoration provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision recognised is periodically reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time.
Changes to the estimated future costs are recognised in the statement of financial position by adjusting both the closure and rehabilitation asset and provision.
Deferred income tax The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement as to the types of arrangements considered to be a tax on income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is also required in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of retained earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the statement of financial position and the amount of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some, or all, of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
Note 5: Segment information The Group is managed as a single entity which produces, develops and markets its principal product iron ore pellets for sale to the metallurgical industry.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group presents its results in a single segment which are disclosed in the income statement for the Group.
In the prior period, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 14 Segment Reporting, the Group disclosed geographical segments split between Ukraine and Switzerland.
This is no longer required.
The Group does not generate significant revenues from external customers attributable to the country of domicile.
The information on the revenues from external customers attributed to the individual foreign countries is given in note 6.
The Group does not have any significant non-current assets that are located in the country of domicile of the Group.
The vast majority of the non-current assets are located in Ukraine.
com 80 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 6: Revenue Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Revenue from sales of ore pellets: Export 612,829 973,420 Ukraine 34,483 134,413 647,312 1,107,833 Revenue from services provided 790 1,229 Revenue from other sales 565 7,792 Total revenue 648,667 1,116,854 Export sales by geographical destination were as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 China 241,882 173,761 Austria 105,690 298,209 Serbia 84,193 170,972 Slovakia 77,537 117,093 Turkey 39,272 30,649 Czech Republic 21,293 80,746 India 21,225 Hungary 6,539 Germany 5,573 Japan 5,027 34 Russia 42,606 Poland 31,708 Bulgaria 12,189 Italy 10,340 Other 4,598 5,113 Total exports 612,829 973,420 During the year ended 31 December 2009 sales made to three customers accounted for approximately 51.9% of the sales revenue 2008: 52.5%.
Sales made to two customers individually amounted to more than 10% of the total sales.
These are disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Customer A 161,730 288,065 Customer B 105,690 298,209 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 81 Note 7: Cost of sales Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Materials 60,607 79,321 Purchased ore and concentrate 8,914 47,491 Electricity 81,438 92,021 Personnel costs 41,670 68,781 Spare parts and consumables 13,007 17,613 Depreciation and amortisation 23,370 28,860 Fuel 23,969 41,517 Gas 28,744 34,106 Repairs and maintenance 38,503 33,120 Royalties and levies 6,484 6,764 Stock movement 10,543 19,596 Other 3,818 4,240 Total cost of sales 341,067 434,238 Cost of sales is reconciled to C1 costs in the following manner: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Cost of sales 341,067 434,238 Depreciation and amortisation 23,370 28,860 Purchased ore and concentrate 8,914 47,491 Processing costs for purchased ore and concentrate 1,206 5,418 Production cost of gravel 357 375 Stock movement in the period 10,543 19,596 Pension service costs 1,857 5,058 Other 1,662 2,214 C1 cost 296,482 364,418 Own ore produced tonnes 8,609,200 8,607,500 C1 cash cost per tonne US$ 34.44 42.34 C1 costs represent the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore divided by production volume of own ore, and excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension costs and stock movements, costs of purchased ore, concentrate and production cost of gravel and excludes one-off items which are outside the definition of EBITDA.
Note 8: Selling and distribution expenses Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Railway transportation 69,477 95,477 Other transportation and port charges 80,998 43,697 Agent fees 799 1,656 Custom duties 1,423 1,678 Advertising 2,757 2,395 Personnel cost 1,055 1,448 Depreciation 1,581 1,406 Other 4,176 4,771 Total selling and distribution expenses 162,266 152,528 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 82 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 9: General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Personnel costs 23,933 38,900 Buildings and maintenance 2,391 3,092 Taxes other than income tax and other charges 3,930 4,185 Consulting and other professional fees 2,731 7,000 Depreciation and amortisation 2,534 3,137 Communication 529 826 Vehicles maintenance and fuel 854 1,096 Repairs 1,041 1,120 Audit fees 1,112 1,348 Non-audit fees 184 1,153 Security 1,659 1,641 Research 1 352 Other 2,262 3,335 Total general and administrative expenses 43,161 67,185 Auditor remuneration Auditor remuneration paid in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiary companies and for the provision of other services not in connection with the audit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Audit services Ferrexpo plc Annual Report 628 1,058 Subsidiary entities 484 290 Total audit services 1,112 1,348 Non-audit services Tax advisory 154 742 Assurance related services 323 Other 30 88 Total non-audit services 184 1,153 Total auditor remuneration 1,296 2,501 Note 10: Other income Other income for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Sale of surplus maintenance spares 867 3,434 Lease income 670 1,090 Reversal of fines and penalties 4 926 Refunds from social security institutions 1,735 Other income 826 937 Total other income 4,102 6,387 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 83 Note 11: Other expenses Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Charitable donations 4,043 6,081 Doubtful debts expense 5,199 18,755 Loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 1,121 1,280 Other personnel costs 830 1,056 Foreign exchange difference arising on consolidation 5,992 Other 2,623 4,876 Total other expenses 3,418 38,040 The allowance for doubtful debts relates to receivables from certain customers in Russia and other former CIS countries.
Following a stabilisation in the markets during the latter part of the financial year the recorded allowance has been partially released.
Note 12: Foreign exchange gains and losses Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Operating foreign exchange gains Revaluation of trade receivables 1,818 31,200 Revaluation of trade payables 716 1,891 Total operating foreign exchange gains 2,534 29,309 Non-operating foreign exchange losses Revaluation of interest-bearing loans 1,639 85,907 Revaluation of cash equivalents 84 13,422 Other 997 303 Total non-operating foreign exchange losses 2,552 72,788 Note 13: Write-offs and impairment losses Impairment losses relate to adjustments made against the carrying value of assets where this is higher than the recoverable amount.
Write-offs and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Write-off of inventories 144 941 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 717 21 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 22 1,896 26,364 Total write-offs and impairment losses 2,757 27,326 Note 14: Investments in associates As at 31 December 2009 investments in associates comprised: As at As at Principal Country of 31.12.09 31.12.08 activity incorporation Ownership % US$000 US$000 TIS Ruda Port development Ukraine 49.9 19,915 18,640 For the year ended 31 December 2009 the summarised financial information for the associate was as follows: Total assets Total liabilities Revenue Net profit As at As at As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 TIS Ruda 27,187 29,672 4,837 9,048 20,147 18,865 2,614 2,010 The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Group ownership.
The movement in the investment in the year represents the Groups share of profit of US$1,304,000 in TIS Ruda 2008: US$1,003,000.
TIS Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel.
com 84 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 15: Negative goodwill Negative goodwill arose as a result of several equity transactions in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation during the prior period: Rights issues On 30 June 2008 Ferrexpo AG purchased additional shares in the Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation in to which certain minorities did not participate, thus increasing its shareholding from 85.9% to 87.8%.
As a result Ferrexpo AG held a larger proportion of previously generated retained profit.
The resulting negative goodwill of US$5,077,018 was recognised in the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on accounting for changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries.
A second rights issue occurred on 16 December 2008, increasing Ferrexpo AGs shareholding to 90.9%.
This resulted in an additional negative goodwill charge of US$5,027,479.
Treasury shares in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation On 22 December 2008, Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation repurchased own shares from DCM Decometal International Trading GmbH DCM.
These shares were placed in treasury for cancellation or subsequent sale to its principal shareholder, Ferrexpo AG.
As a result of this transaction Ferrexpo AGs shareholding increased to 97.1%, which resulted in a further negative goodwill charge of US$24,944,267 recognised through the income statement.
In 2009, the remaining treasury shares of Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation have been transferred to Ferrexpo AG resulting in an increase of the shareholding from 97.1% to 97.3%.
This transaction resulted in a negative goodwill of US$503,000 which is included in the income statement.
Note 16: Finance income and expense Finance income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Finance income Interest income 1,894 1,448 Other finance revenue 999 1,019 Total finance income 2,893 2,467 Finance expense Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 16,805 15,002 Interest on defined benefit plans 2,967 1,776 Bank charges 535 336 Other finance costs 3,411 3,720 Total finance expense 23,718 20,834 Net finance expense 20,825 18,367 Other finance costs include the unwinding of the discount on the site restoration provision, discounting of the share redemption liability and other costs.
Note 17: Income tax expense The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Current income tax 10,162 79,016 Deferred income tax 310 16,483 Total income tax expense 9,852 62,533 Refer to note 24 for a breakdown of the deferred tax balances.
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates.
The weighted average statutory rate was 13.0% for 2009 2008: 18.2%.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries, as included in the consolidated financial information.
The changes in the weighted average income tax rate are largely due to a change in the profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
com 85 A reconciliation between the income tax charged in the accompanying financial information and income before taxes multiplied by the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Profit before tax 80,850 375,581 Notional tax computed at the weighted average statutory tax rate of 13.0% 2008: 18.2% 10,526 68,496 Derecognition of deferred tax assets 135 4,359 Inflation related indexation of fixed assets for tax 1,792 12,456 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3,359 9,669 Tax exempted income 942 Tax effect on asset impairment and negative goodwill 7,849 Non-recognition of deferred taxes on current year losses 780 Tax related to prior years 2,497 286 Other 283 600 Total income tax expense 9,852 62,533 Note 18: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders: Basic earnings per share US cents 12.08 48.60 Diluted earnings per share US cents 12.05 48.46 Underlying earnings for the year: Basic earnings per share US cents 12.80 57.74 Diluted earnings per share US cents 12.77 57.58 The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended Thousands 31.12.09 31.12.08 Weighted average number of shares Basic number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 584,652 601,697 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 1,361 1,717 Diluted number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 586,013 603,414 The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number or Ordinary Shares in issue by the shares held in treasury refer to note 30.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the Directors believe provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial performance of the Groups operations.
Underlying earnings is presented after minority interests and excludes adjusted items.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share is based on the following earnings data: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Profit attributable to equity holders 70,627 292,436 Write offs impairments 13 2,757 27,326 IPO costs 42 427 4,120 Negative goodwill generated on rights issue 15 503 35,049 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 1,571 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 213 Non-operating foreign exchange losses 12 2,551 72,788 Tax on adjusted items 823 12,619 Underlying earnings 74,823 347,431 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 86 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 18: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed continued Adjusted items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items.
Nonoperating adjusted items include gains and losses on disposal of investments and businesses and non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses.
Dividends paid and proposed Year ended US$000 31.12.09 Dividends proposed Final dividend for 2009: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share 19,289 Total dividends proposed 19,289 Dividends paid during the period Interim dividend for 2009: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share 19,289 Final dividend for 2008: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share 20,261 Total dividends paid during the period 39,550 Year ended US$000 31.12.08 Dividends proposed Final dividend for 2008: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share 20,000 Total dividends proposed 20,000 Dividends paid during the period Interim dividend for 2008: 3.2 US cents per Ordinary Share 19,505 Final dividend for 2007: 3.2 US cents per Ordinary Share 19,449 Total dividends paid during the period 38,954 Note 19: EBITDA The Group calculates EBITDA as profit from continuing operations before tax and finance plus depreciation and amortisation included in cost of sales, administrative expenses and selling and distribution costs and non-recurring cash items included in other income and other expenses plus the net of gains and losses from disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment.
The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Profit before tax and finance 104,227 466,736 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 2,757 27,326 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 213 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 1,571 Initial public offering costs 42 427 4,120 Share-based payments 42 3,423 1,495 Negative goodwill generated on rights issue 15 503 35,049 Severance payments 6,764 Depreciation and amortisation 28,018 34,125 EBITDA 138,136 503,946 The severance payments disclosed above relate to the amounts paid to the former CEO and the Director of Business Development upon their resignation in the prior year.
Capitalised pre-production stripping costs are included in assets under construction whereas the production stripping costs are shown under mining assets.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2009 was US$20,204,282 2008: $nil.
During the year, a sale and lease back transaction for assets of plant and equipment was completed and is considered to be a finance lease.
No gain or loss was realised on the sale of the assets subject to this finance lease.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
US$82,505,184 2008: US$61,966,218 of property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities.
The gross value of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use is US$30,148,597 2008: US$26,745,388.
com 88 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 21: Goodwill and other intangible assets As at 31 December 2009 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised: Other intangible US$000 Goodwill assets Total Cost: At 1 January 2008 155,682 1,781 157,463 Additions 1,597 1,597 Disposals 13 13 Translation differences 53,578 1,125 54,703 At 31 December 2008 102,104 2,240 104,344 Additions 598 598 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 3,646 74 3,720 At 31 December 2009 98,458 2,711 101,169 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2008 636 636 Amortisation charge 279 279 Disposals 13 13 Translation differences 313 313 At 31 December 2008 589 589 Amortisation charge 301 301 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 22 22 At 31 December 2009 815 815 Net book value at: 31 December 2008 102,104 1,651 103,755 31 December 2009 98,458 1,896 100,354 The major component of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2009 comprises licences in respect of the Groups mining operations.
The amortisation charge for the year is allocated to production expenses and administrative expenses as appropriate.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment purposes to one cash-generating unit, as the Group only has one primary operational segment, being the production and sale of iron ore.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2009 based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over a 20-year period, a common practice in the industry.
The cash flow projection was based on the financial budget approved by senior management.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations were: production volume from own ore: and evolution of iron ore prices, costs of raw materials and other production and distribution costs.
The cash flows were projected based on management expectations regarding the development of the iron ore and steel market and the cost of producing and distributing the pellets.
The Company takes into account two principal key assumptions, selling price and total production costs.
Within this both macro and local factors which influence these are considered.
In determining the future long-term selling price, the Company takes into account external and internal analysis of the long-term and shorter-term supply and demand dynamics in the local region and throughout the world along with costs of production of competitors and the marginal cost of incremental production in a particular market.
The Company considers local supply demand balances affecting its major customers and the effects this could have on the longer-term price.
Cost of production and shipping is considered taking into account local inflationary pressures, major exchange rate developments between local currency and the US dollar and the longer-term and shorter-term trends in energy supply and demand and the effect on costs along with the expected movements in steel related commodity prices which affect the cost of certain production inputs.
com 89 For the purpose of the goodwill impairment test, the future cash flows were discounted using the real pre-tax discount rate of 15% 2008: 15% per annum.
This rate reflects the time value of money and risk associated with the asset, and is in line with the rates used by competitors with a similar background.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that due to the high value of the projects and resulting reserve base no reasonable change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its value-in-use.
Note 22: Available-for-sale financial assets As at 31 December 2009 available-for-sale financial assets comprised: Ownership % Carrying value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 Current Investments available for sale equity instruments: Vostock Ruda 1.10% 1.10% 626 650 Total current available-for-sale financial assets 626 650 Non-current Investments available for sale equity instruments: OJSC Stahanov 3.14% 3.14% 813 435 LLC Atol 9.95% 9.95% 2,104 4,000 CJSC AMA 9.00% 9.00% CJSC Amtek 9.00% 9.00% Total non-current available-for-sale financial assets 2,917 4,435 All investments relate to companies incorporated in Ukraine.
Impairment testing Ferrexpo Petroleum The fair value of the unquoted equity investment in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava Region of Ukraine, is determined by management using a discounted cash flow projection, having taken into account the estimated value of reserves provided by an expert third party valuer.
The key assumptions used in this calculation were gas condensate prices, gas oil condensate conversion rates, production volumes, production costs, tax rates, projected capital expenditure, the Ukrainian hryvnia to US dollar exchange rate and the discount rate.
The calculation took into account the projected future cash flows attributable to the  licence projected to make up 90% of the total value of the investment over a period of 19 years the length of the licence with an applied real discount rate of 15.0% 2008: 14.5% per annum.
As a result of the above review, management recognised impairment charges against carrying value of investment in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek.
The total fair value of the investment as of 31 December 2009 was determined as US$2,104,000 2008: US$4,000,000, being entirely attributable to LLC Atol.
The decrease of the carrying value of the investment is related to the impairment testing performed for the interim report as of 30 June 2009, when an additional impairment loss was recorded through profit or loss.
The impairment testing performed at year-end supported the carrying value so that no additional impairment or reversal of impairment had to be booked.
OJSC Stahanov The value of OJSC Stahanov was increased due to a positive change in the quoted market price for the Companys shares on the Ukrainian stock exchange PFTS as of 31 December 2009.
As of 30 June 2009, an additional impairment loss of US$63,884 has been recorded through profit or loss.
The increase of the fair value in the amount of US$440,661 has been recorded against the net unrealised gains reserve as a reversal of previously recorded impairment losses.
Further details regarding available-for-sale investments can be found in note 13 write-offs and impairment losses as well as note 36 related party transactions.
com 90 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 23: Other non-current assets As at 31 December 2009 other non-current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 7,320 6,922 Loan provided to associate 2,000 3,000 Other non-current assets 504 194 Total other non-current assets 9,824 10,116 Note 24: Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009 relate to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated of financial position income statement As at As at Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 Trade and other receivables 2,466 4,160 1,584 5,888 Trade and other payables and advance receivables 144 16 132 1 Property, plant and equipment 9,122 9,063 393 11,972 IPO costs netted against share premium 1,226 1,725 499 Tax losses recognised 743 743 1,564 Other financial assets 187 204 10 Trade and other payables 77 29 47 Accrued expenses 1,602 1,485 169 3,508 Defined benefit pension liability 3,596 3,219 504 1,554 Provision for site restoration 298 269 41 180 Other financial liabilities 134 136 119 Total deferred tax assets 19,595 20,170 72 21,656 Thereof netted against deferred tax liabilities 5,922 6,127 Total deferred tax assets as per the statement of financial position 13,673 14,043 Trade and other receivable 498 498 Inventories 2,522 4,052 1,424 5,170 Accrued income prepaid expenses 2,477 1,915 638 Property, plant and equipment 554 210 398 34 Intangible assets 277 218 69 Exploration rights 154 Advances and other current assets 189 Other non-current assets 171 166 11 Loans and borrowings 520 Employee benefit trust 3,025 4,442 204 Trade and other payables and advance receivables 420 422 518 Lease obligations 4 4 Other items 133 2 132 Total deferred tax liabilities 9,661 11,425 300 5,173 Thereof netted against deferred tax assets 5,922 6,127 Total deferred tax liabilities as per the statement of financial position 3,739 5,298 Net deferred tax asset net change 9,934 8,745 372 16,483 The movement in the deferred income tax balance is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Opening balance 8,745 7,082 Income statement credit 372 16,483 Changes booked through equity 1,251 7,896 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustment 434 6,924 Closing balance 9,934 8,745 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 91 As at 31 December 2009, the Group had deductible temporary differences on current financial receivables in the amount of US$2,182,216 2008: US$7,180,000 for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$147,080,471 2008: US$181,204,000.
Note 25: Inventories As at 31 December 2009 inventories comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Raw materials and consumables 47,405 41,889 Finished ore pellets 5,135 15,456 Work in progress 7,565 4,294 Other 104 76 Provision for slow moving and obsolete stock 573 445 Total inventories 59,636 61,270 Inventory is held at cost or fully provided for through the provision for slow-moving and obsolete stock provision above.
Note 26: Trade and other receivables At 31 December 2009 trade and other receivables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Trade receivables 42,956 70,113 Other receivables 1,616 1,479 Allowance for uncollectability 6,455 11,956 Total trade and other receivables 38,117 59,636 Trade receivables at 31 December 2009 includes US$2,098,000 2008: US$1,898,000 owed by related parties.
The movement in the allowance for uncollectability during the year was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Opening balance 11,956 401 Recognition 187 18,629 Reversal 5,386 320 Foreign currency translation 302 6,754 Closing balance 6,455 11,956 The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are subject to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon: As at 31.12.09 Receivables past due but Receivables Receivables not impaired past neither past Gross due and due nor Less than 45 to Over US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days 90 days 90 days Trade receivables 42,956 6,322 33,932 2,160 173 369 Other receivables 1,616 133 1,263 7 12 201 As at 31.12.08 Receivables past due but Receivables Receivables not impaired past neither past Gross due and due nor Less than 45 to Over US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days 90 days 90 days Trade receivables 70,113 11,521 34,883 14,065 2,781 6,863 Other receivables 1,479 435 1,028 16 The Groups exposures to credit and currency risks are disclosed in note 41.
com 92 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 27: Prepayments and other current assets As at 31 December 2009 prepayments and other current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Prepayments to suppliers Electricity and gas 4,036 1,830 Materials and spare parts 1,879 2,954 Services 1,922 2,059 Other prepayments 3,110 663 Loan provided to associate 550 6,000 Accrued income 6,062 3,869 Other 1,835 733 Total prepayments and other current assets 19,394 18,108 Note 28: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid The income tax payable balance as of 31 December 2009 is shown below: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Opening balance 8,604 2,367 Income statement charge 9,852 79,016 Tax paid 18,899 67,217 Changes booked through equity 99 4,125 Foreign exchange adjustment 1,708 1,437 Closing balance 1,364 8,604 Split by: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Income tax receivable balance 9,741 5,835 Income tax payable balance 11,105 14,439 Total income tax payable at the year end 1,364 8,604 As at 31 December 2009 taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 VAT receivable 81,269 57,244 Other taxes prepaid 15 41 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid 81,284 57,285 During the year the VAT receivable increased from US$57,243,752 to US$81,268,909 mainly relating to Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
As an exporter, Ferrexpo Poltava Mining, the Groups principal subsidiary, does not have substantial amounts of VAT received on sales which can be offset against VAT paid for purchases of goods and services.
It therefore relies heavily on the government for refunds.
VAT on trading items is due to be repaid three months after it is incurred.
However, due to slow repayments VAT amounting to nine months of trading was outstanding at the end of the year with none of the amounts being in dispute.
It is expected that VAT refunds will resume in 2010.
Further information is given in the Financial Review of this report.
As at 31 December 2009 other taxes payable comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Withholding tax 3,233 2,420 Environmental tax 2,267 1,698 Source tax 317 236 Other taxes 2,076 2,071 Total other taxes payable 7,893 6,425 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 93 Note 29: Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2009 cash and cash equivalents comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Cash at bank 11,987 87,819 Petty cash 4 3 Total cash and cash equivalents 11,991 87,822 The cash at bank balance as of 31 December 2008 includes an amount of US$1,046,000 held in an escrow account which was unavailable to the Group.
This amount was released subsequent to year end.
No such balances existed as of 31 December 2009.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 41.
Note 30: Share capital and reserves Number of US$000 shares Balance at 31 December 2009 and 2008 121,628 613,967,956 Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Companys equity share capital, comprising 0.10 Ordinary Shares.
The fully paid share capital of Ferrexpo plc at 31 December 2009 was 613,967,956 2008: 613,967,956 Ordinary Shares at a par value of 0.10 paid for in cash, resulting in share capital of US$121,627,585 2008: US$121,627,585 per the statement of financial position.
The closing balance includes 25,343,814 shares which are held in treasury.
Share premium Share premium represents the premium paid by subscribers to the share capital issues, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue.
Treasury share reserve During September 2008, Ferrexpo plc completed a buyback of 25,343,814 shares for a total cost of US$77,260,476.
These shares are currently held as treasury shares by the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 forbids the exercise of any rights including voting rights and the payment of dividends in respect of treasury shares.
Employee benefit trust reserve This reserve represents the treasury shares held by Ferrexpo AG setting up an employee benefit trust reserve.
The reserve is used to satisfy future grants of shares in connection with the listing bonus, as well as future senior management incentive schemes.
Uniting of interest reserve The uniting of interest reserve represents the difference between the initial investment by Ferrexpo AG in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are consolidated at their historic cost, less minority interests.
Subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as described in the accounting policy section.
Net unrealised gains reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US dollar ie hryvnia functional currency operations within the Group into US dollars.
com 94 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 31: Interest bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
All loans are in US dollars.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 41.
As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Current Ukrainian banks 25,738 738 Other banks 223,647 71,715 Obligations under finance leases 40 1,264 Interest accrued 730 2,070 Total current interest bearing loans and borrowings 251,379 74,523 Non-current Ukrainian banks 844 24,659 Other banks 89 206,714 Obligations under finance leases 40 17,210 Total non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings 18,143 231,373 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 269,522 305,896 As at 31 December 2009 the Ukrainian bank facilities are secured by property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of US$82,505,184 2008: US$61,966,218 and rights to a purchase contract in respect of equipment to be delivered of US$20,890,000 2008: US$nil.
Secured Ukrainian property, plant and equipment includes crushing and locomotive buildings, excavators, and mine transport, flotation and crushing equipment.
Non-Ukraine bank loans of US$207,723,000 are secured by rights to proceeds from future export sales of US$370,444,800 2008: US$775,173,008, and US$15,919,000 secured by Ukrainian mine transport equipment with a carrying value of US$22,074,460.
As at 31 December 2009 the Groups major bank debt facility was a US$335,000,000 2008: US$335,000,000 pre-export finance facility with no unutilised amount 2008: nil.
On 8 January 2010 the remaining outstanding balance of US$207,727,272 was repaid in full.
The Group entered into a new three year bank debt term facility on 27 November 2009 in the amount of US$230,000,000.
This pre-export finance facility was drawn in full on 8 January 2010 and was used for refinancing the existing pre-export finance facility.
The term loan and revolving credit facilities as at 31 December 2009 were guaranteed and secured as follows: Ferrexpo AG assigned the rights to revenue from certain sales contracts: Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation assigned all of its rights for 10 export contracts for the pellets sales to Ferrexpo AG: the Group pledged its bank account into which all proceeds from the sale of certain iron ore pellet contracts are received: and Ferrexpo AG pledged all its rights under certain contracts for the sale of iron ore pellets and its rights under certain related credit support documents.
It should also be noted that Ferrexpo AG is subject to minimum capital requirements which restrict the amount of profit that can be distributed to the parent.
The new major bank debt facility drawn on 8 January 2010 is also guaranteed and secured on the same basis as the bank debt existing at 31 December 2009.
Note 32: Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2009 trade and other payables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Current trade and other payables Payables for equipment 4,323 3,821 Commodity loans 124 1,446 Materials and services 20,255 23,114 Promissory notes 797 Dividends payable 78 312 Liability for severance payments 1,046 Other 3,146 4,497 Total current trade and other payables 27,926 35,033 Non-current trade and other payables Commodity loans 570 Total non-current trade and other payables 570 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 95 Trade and other payables at 31 December 2009 includes US$1,662,000 2008: US$1,909,000 due to related parties.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 41.
Note 33: Defined benefit pension liability Ukrainian defined benefit plan The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian state pension scheme at the statutory rates in effect during the year, based on gross salary payments.
Such expense is charged to the income statement in the period the related salaries are earned.
Costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Actuarial techniques have been used in calculating the liability related to this retirement obligation at the reporting date.
Gains and losses resulting from the use of internal actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of defined benefit obligation.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not recognised reduced by past service cost not yet recognised.
At 31 December 2009 this defined benefit plan covered 4,669 current employees 2008: 4,673 people.
There are 1,246 former employees currently in receipt of pensions 2008: 1,226 people.
In addition, the Group has a legal obligation to its employees in the form of a collective agreement to make a one off payment on retirement to employees with a long term of service: this has also been included in the provision.
Swiss defined benefit plan The employees of the Groups Swiss operation are covered under a multi-employer pension plan, which is governed in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law.
The assets of the pension scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with an insurance company.
The annual pension costs and the defined benefit obligation as well as the fair value of the plan assets are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
The accumulated capital of the employees is subject to interests determined by the local legislation and defined in the regulatory of the pension scheme.
On retirement employees are entitled to receive either a lump sum or an annual proportion of their accumulated capital as a pension underpinned by certain guarantees.
The Group and in certain cases the employees make contributions to the pension scheme as a percentage of the insured salaries and depending on the age of the employees.
At 31 December 2009 this defined benefit plan covered 21 people 2008: 23 people.
The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below: Year ended 31.12.09 Year ended 31.12.08 ||| Swiss Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme Discount rate 3.25% 15.00% 3.25% 10.00% Retail price inflation 1.50% 7.00% 2.40% 6.00% Expected future salary increase 3.00% 7.00% 3.00% 7.61% Expected future benefit increase 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female life expectancy years 86.0 74.5 86.9 74.7 Male life expectancy years 82.9 63.5 83.5 63.5 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 96 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 33: Defined benefit pension liability continued Changes in the net present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Year ended 31.12.09 Year ended 31.12.08 Swiss Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian US$000 scheme scheme Total scheme scheme Total Opening defined benefit obligation 2,096 22,187 24,283 1,647 18,853 20,500 Current service cost 375 1,142 1,517 310 1,607 1,917 Employee contribution 14 14 Interest cost 66 3,074 3,140 46 1,730 1,776 Contribution by plan participants 469 469 697 697 Benefits paid 926 2,987 3,913 766 4,103 4,869 Actuarial loss 101 1,230 1,331 52 6,167 6,219 Past service cost 3,502 3,502 9,972 9,972 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 39 4,268 4,229 110 12,039 11,929 Closing defined benefit obligation 2,234 23,880 26,114 2,096 22,187 24,283 Opening plan assets 1,507 1,507 1,039 1,039 Expected return on plan assets 48 48 33 33 Employer contribution 474 474 274 274 Employee contribution 14 14 Contribution by plan participants 469 469 942 942 Benefits paid 926 926 766 766 Actuarial loss 230 230 84 84 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 19 19 69 69 Closing plan assets 1,375 1,375 1,507 1,507 Net funded status 859 23,880 24,739 589 22,187 22,776 Unrecognised actuarial losses 807 6,333 7,140 527 5,767 6,294 Unrecognised past service cost 3,113 3,113 5,543 5,543 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 34 77 43 2,001 2,001 Defined benefit liability at the end of the year 18 14,511 14,529 62 12,878 12,940 Benefit expense Current service cost 389 1,142 1,531 310 1,607 1,917 Interest cost 66 3,074 3,140 46 1,730 1,776 Amortisation of actuarial loss gain 37 439 476 30 92 62 Expected return on plan assets 48 48 33 33 Recognised past service cost 389 389 4,429 4,429 Employee contribution 14 14 Curtailment gain 162 162 430 5,044 5,474 131 7,858 7,989 Net movement on defined benefit liability Opening balance 62 12,878 12,940 191 15,978 16,169 Recognition of liability Benefits expense 430 5,044 5,474 131 7,858 7,989 Benefits paid 2,897 2,897 4,103 4,103 Employer contribution 474 474 274 274 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 514 514 14 6,855 6,841 Closing balance 18 14,511 14,529 62 12,878 12,940 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 101 1,230 1,331 52 6,167 6,219 The Group expects to contribute US$3,643,545 to its defined benefit plans in 2009.
The asset allocation of the plan assets of the Swiss scheme is as follows: As at As at As at As at 31.12.09 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.08 US$000 % % Plan assets at fair value Equities 18.3 252 15.3 231 Bonds 49.7 683 53.4 805 Properties 18.1 248 19.4 292 Other 13.9 192 11.9 179 Fair value of plan assets 100 1,375 100 1,507 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 97 The actual returns on the plan assets for the Swiss Scheme were US$114,008 2008: US$156,402.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 Swiss Scheme Swiss Scheme Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 6.50% 6.50% Bonds 2.50% 2.50% Properties 4.50% 4.50% Other 2.254.00% 2.254.00% Average expected rate of return on plan assets 3.50% 3.43% Actual rate of return on plan assets: Equities 28.53% 47.10% Bonds 8.93% 0.47% Properties 5.5933.60% 6.05% Other 44.94 24.63% 2.955.71% Average actual rate of return on plan assets 11.60% 11.38% A change in the assumed discount rates would have the following effects: As at year ended 31.12.09 Increase Decrease Swiss Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 1.00% 0.25% 1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 23 122 25 139 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 87 1,460 93 1,650 The history of experience adjustments unrecognised losses is as follows for the current and previous three periods: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.06 Opening balance 6,294 3,292 945 286 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 1,331 6,219 2,347 659 Experience adjustments on plan assets 230 84 Gain on change in assumptions Foreign exchange translation adjustment 715 3,376 Closing balance 7,140 6,294 3,292 945 Note 34: Provision for site restoration The costs of decommissioning open pit mines are based on the amounts determined by third party experts on the basis of Ukrainian legislation.
The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs of decommissioning and restoring the mines at the dates when the deposits are expected to be depleted.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a nominal pre-tax discount rate of 10.25% per year 2008: 12.00%.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of the mine, currently estimated to be 2035.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
The increase as of 31 December 2009 is due to the unwinding of the discount.
Year ended Year ended $000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Opening balance 1071 1,746 Unwind of the discount 159 269 Arising during the year 76 385 Translation adjustment 38 559 Closing balance 1,268 1,071 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 98 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 35: Accrued liabilities and deferred income As at 31 December 2009 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Accrued expenses 1,582 3,413 Accrued employee costs 10,398 10,993 Advances from customers 166 64 Total accrued liabilities and deferred income 12,146 14,470 Note 36: Related party disclosure During the periods presented the Group entered into arms length transactions with entities under common control of the majority owner of the Group, Kostyantin Zhevago and with other related parties.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify and properly disclose transactions with the related parties.
The related party transactions undertaken by the Group during the periods presented are summarised below: Revenue, expenses, finance income and finance costs Year ended 31.12.09 Year ended 31.12.08 Entities under Other Entities under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties Iron ore pellet sales 1 Other sales 506 1,480 853 2,937 Total revenue 506 1,480 853 2,937 Purchase of materials 4,458 11,930 22,999 20,293 2 Purchase of services 444 23 477 426 General and administration expenses 3,315 2,642 128 Selling and distribution 11,849 11,736 3,482 11,332 Other expenses 91 8 43 247 Total expenses 8,308 11,849 23,697 26,161 3,482 32,426 Finance income 1,329 267 239 394 Finance expense 816 761 Net finance income expense 513 267 522 394 1 Following initial stripping operations at Yeristovo, the Company disposed of surplus ballast material on the 30 June 2008 for US$515,000.
This was recorded in revenue as income and is disclosed in the table above showing revenue, expenses, finance income and finance costs.
2 Kuoni Attorneys-at-Law has provided services to the Group for fees of US$23k 2008: nil during the year.
Wolfram Kuoni who is a partner in the firm is also an independent Non-executive Director of Ferrexpo plc.
The services were provided on an arms length basis by other members of the firm.
Finance income and finance expense The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Finance & Credit Bank in Ukraine which is under common control of the major shareholder of Ferrexpo plc.
Finance income and finance expense are disclosed in the table above.
com 99 Sale and purchases of property, plant and equipment and investments Year ended 31.12.09 Year ended 31.12.08 Entities under Other Entities under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties 6 Sale of investments 1,849 4 Purchase of investments 270 3 Purchase of own Ordinary Shares 58,249 Sale of property, plant and equipment 1,2, 5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2,200 192 16 1 On 31 March 2009, the Company acquired a trial filter press from Progress Plant Company, an entity under common control for US$2,200,000.
2 On 28 November 2008, the Group entered into a purchase agreement for property, plant and equipment principally trucks and cranes with Auto Kraz, an entity under common control.
A first instalment amounting to US$138,000 of an approved order of totally US$1,067,000 has been made for part delivery.
Subsequent to this delivery, it has been decided to postpone further deliveries.
3 On the 16 September 2008, Ferrexpo plc repurchased 19,398,814 of its own Ordinary Shares from Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. an entity under common control, at the market price of 1.673 per share for settlement on 19 September 2008.
The gross consideration paid amounted to US$58,248,826.
4 On 16 July 2008, Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation and DP Ferrotrans Group subsidiaries subscribed for additional share capital for consideration of US$244,000 and US$26,000 respectively in OJSC Stahanov, as part of the rights issue of that company.
The total share holding of the Group as of 31 December 2009 is 3.14% 2008: 3.14%.
As at 31 December 2009 the market value of the total shares held by the Group through its subsidiaries amounted to US$812,000 31 December 2008: US$435,000.
The increase of the market value was treated as a reversal of a previously recorded impairment loss through other comprehensive income.
5 On 25 June 2008, the Group acquired a truck from Auto Kraz, an entity under common control, for US$54,000.
6 On 23 May 2008, the Group disposed of a 2.10% share holding in Vostock Ruda, an available-for-sale investment, to entities under common control for a consideration of US$1,849,000 resulting in a gain on disposal of US$1,571,000.
The remaining share holding in Vostock Ruda of the Group is 1.10% as of 31 December 2009 2008: 1.10%.
The outstanding investments balances with related parties for the periods presented are as follows: As at 31.12.09 As at 31.12.08 Entities under Other Entities under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties Investments available-for-sale 2,917 Loans 2,550 9,000 Total non-current assets 2,917 2,550 9,000 Investments available-for-sale 626 650 Trade and other receivables 1,999 93 6 1,890 8 Prepayments and other current assets 995 1 145 299 581 Short-term deposits with banks 411 5,000 Cash and cash equivalents 1,712 36,984 Total current assets 5,742 93 7 44,669 299 589 Trade and other payables 514 1,146 659 1,250 Total current liabilities 514 1,146 659 1,250 As of 31 December 2009 trade and other receivables included outstanding amounts relating to the disposal of shares in Vostock Ruda of US$1,169,000 2008: US$1,212,000.
As of 31 December 2009 cash and cash equivalents with Finance & Credit Bank were US$1,709,000 2008: US$36,984,000 and short-term deposits with the same institution US$411,000 2008: US$5,000,000.
Other related party transaction In August 2009, the Group paid Swiss Withholding Tax of US$984,106 on behalf of Kostyantin Zhevago on costs incurred for the Initial Public Offering completed in June 2007.
This was settled in accordance with terms and conditions entered into at the time of the Initial Public Offering of the Company.
com 100 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 37: Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flow from operating activities Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Profit before tax 80,850 375,581 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 28,018 34,125 Interest expense 20,622 18,496 Interest income 2,893 2,467 Share of income of associates 1,304 1,003 Movement in allowance for doubtful receivables 5,199 19,095 Write-off reversal of payables 1,043 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 213 1,280 Assets received free of charge 325 Write-offs and impairment losses 2,757 27,325 Site restoration provision 159 269 Gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 1,571 Employee benefits 5,474 7,715 IPO costs 427 4,120 Share-based payments 3,423 1,495 Negative goodwill generated on rights issue 503 35,049 Operating foreign exchange gains 2,534 29,309 Non-operating foreign exchange losses 2,552 72,788 Operating cash flow before working capital changes 131,636 491,522 Changes in working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 14,961 36,167 Decrease increase in inventories 1,777 5,070 Decrease increase in trade and other accounts payable 6,474 8,094 Increase decrease in other taxes recoverable and prepaid 24,038 673 Cash generated from operating activities 117,862 457,706 Interest paid 19,197 15,443 Income tax paid 18,899 67,217 Post-employment benefits paid 2,897 4,103 Net cash flows from operating activities 76,869 370,943 Note 38: Net financial indebtedness Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Cash and cash equivalents 29 11,991 87,822 Current borrowings 31 251,379 74,523 Non-current borrowings 31 18,143 231,373 Current commodity loans 32 124 1,446 Non-current commodity loans 32 570 Net financial indebtedness 257,655 220,090 Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest bearing loans and borrowings and amounts payable for equipment.
Payables for equipment comprised balances due to foreign suppliers for mining equipment denominated in US$ and euro which are interest-bearing.
Note 39: Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses for the year ended 31 December 2009 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Wages and salaries 39,905 65,738 Social security costs 11,520 20,598 Post-employment benefits 2,653 6,127 Other employee costs 7,248 12,756 Share-based payments 3,850 4,966 Total employee benefits expenses 65,176 110,185 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 101 Average number of employees Year ended Year ended Number 31.12.09 31.12.08 Production 6,319 6,728 Marketing and distribution 169 159 Administration 958 1,002 Other 907 870 Total average number of employees 8,353 8,759 Compensation for key management was as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Wages and salaries 4,540 22,836 Social security costs 646 1,015 Other employee costs 287 8,748 Total compensation for key management 5,472 32,599 Share-based payments of US$560,295 2008: US$16,033,308 are included in wages and salaries.
The balances above include compensation for Non-executive and Executive Directors as well as for other key management personnel.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for details of compensation relating to Non-executive and Executive Directors.
Note 40: Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Less than one year 849 1,137 Between one and five years 2,374 3,473 More than five years 16,479 21,895 Total minimum rentals payable 19,702 26,505 During the year ended 31 December 2009 US$1,665,000 was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2008: US$986,000.
The Group leases land and buildings under operating leases.
The leases on land typically run for 49 years, with a lease period of 5 to 10 years on buildings.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group does not have any commitments from lease agreements acting as lessor.
Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: As at 31.12.09 Present value of Minimum payments US$000 payments note 31 Less than one year 1,264 1,264 Between one and five years 9,023 6,049 More than five years 8,188 2,906 Total minimum lease payments 18,475 10,219 Less: amounts representing finance charges 8,256 Present value of minimum lease payments 10,219 10,219 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 102 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 40: Commitments and contingencies continued Other As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Capital commitments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 41,404 42,198 Guarantees provided 208,000 280,000 Legal In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
Tax and other regulatory compliance Ukrainian legislation and regulations regarding taxation and custom regulations continue to evolve.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities, and other Governmental bodies.
Instances of inconsistent interpretations are not unusual.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross border transactions, create a risk of additional tax payments having to be made by the Group, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group does not believe that these risks are any more significant than those of similar enterprises in Ukraine.
Note 41: Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at 31.12.09 At fair Financial Availablevalue liabilities for-sale through measured at Loans and financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 29 11,991 11,991 Available-for-sale investments 22 3,543 3,543 Trade and other receivables 26 38,117 38,117 Other financial assets 3,719 3,719 Total financial assets 53,827 3,543 57,370 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 32 24,780 24,780 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 35 12,146 12,146 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 31 269,522 269,522 Other financial liabilities 3,161 3,161 Total financial liabilities 309,609 309,609 As at 31.12.08 At fair Financial Availablevalue liabilities for-sale through measured at Loans and financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and term deposits 29 87,822 87,822 Available-for-sale investments 22 5,085 5,085 Trade and other receivables 26 59,636 59,636 Other financial assets 10,169 10,169 Total financial assets 157,627 5,085 162,712 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 32 31,106 31,106 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 35 14,470 14,470 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 31 305,896 305,896 Total financial liabilities 351,472 351,472 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 103 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee and the CFO.
The Group operates a centralised financial risk management structure under the management of the Executive Committee, accountable to the Board.
The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the CFO.
The CFOs responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial risk for the Group.
Additionally, the CFO controls the management of treasury risks within each of the business units in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
Financial instrument risk exposure and management Natural hedges that can be identified and their effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.
Derivative transactions may be executed for risk mitigation purposes only speculation is not permitted under the approved Treasury Policy and are designed to have the effect of reducing risk on underlying market or credit exposures.
Appropriate operational controls ensure operational risks are not increased disproportionately to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The Group has not used any financial risk management instruments that are derivative in nature, or other hedging instruments, in this or prior periods.
Credit risk Trade and other receivables The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain obligations that create exposure to credit, counterparty and country risks.
It is the primary objective of the Group to manage such risks to reduce uncertainty of collection from buyers.
A secondary objective is to minimise the cost of reducing risks within acceptable parameters.
In order to react to the significant weakness in iron ore demand during the financial year 2009, certain sales arrangements with customers have been changed from long-term to spot.
Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment.
These risks include the creditworthiness of the buyer, and the political and economic stability of the buyers country.
Trade finance generally refers to the financing of individual transactions or a series of revolving transactions and are often self-liquidating whereby the lending bank stipulates that all sales proceeds to be collected are applied to settle the loan, the remainder returned to the Group.
Trade finance transactions are approved by the Group treasurer.
The primary objective is to ensure that the margins paid and conditions applicable should be the same as, or better than, those which other organisations with similar credit worthiness would achieve, and compared with other financing available to the Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner or to comply with other conditions of an obligation or agreement.
Where appropriate, the Group uses letters of credit to assist in mitigating such risks.
Counterparty risk crystallises when a party to an agreement defaults.
Where letters of credit are used to minimise this risk, the Group uses a confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and or credit risk of the issuing bank.
Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and or financial events in a given country.
During the year the Group reduced its exposure to Ukraine trade receivables risk by increasing the level of production exported.
Group treasury monitors the concentration of all outstanding risks associated with any entity or country, and reports to the Group CFO on a timely basis.
com 104 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 41: Financial instruments continued Investment securities The Group limits its cash exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties that are incorporated in an A or better S&P rated OECD country: and is rated by S&P or Moodys at a level to long-term A S&P or short-term A2 S&P or better.
Recognising that the principal activities of the Group are predominantly in Ukraine, special consideration is given to investments with Ukrainian counterparties.
Exceptions may be made under the following conditions: the counterparty is resident in Ukraine, and the counterparty is included in the Top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine, and the counterparty is either: owned and controlled by the State with its obligations guaranteed by the State, or majority owned and controlled by an international financial institution capable of covering the counterparty exposure which in itself meets the criteria of an eligible counterparty, or a local financial institution that has achieved a minimum investment grade rating from Fitch, S&P or Moodys.
Cash and deposits are held with the Groups transactional bank in Ukraine, which is a related party financial institution.
This bank is registered with the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving and disbursing payments under Group intercompany loans, and is an approved Ukrainian counterparty.
The Group is therefore exposed to Ukraine country risk.
Guarantees The Groups policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2009 Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo UK Ltd were jointly and severally liable under a $335 million loan agreement having an outstanding balance of US$208 million 31 December 2008: US$280 million.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Cash and cash equivalents 11,991 87,822 Trade and other receivables 38,117 59,636 Other financial assets 3,719 10,169 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 53,827 157,627 The total receivables balance relating to the Groups top three customers was US$24,999,505 2008: US$29,740,000 making up 68.5% of the total amounts receivable 2008: 51.1%.
Impairment profile The Groups exposure to credit risk relating to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 26.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation by holding surplus cash or undrawn credit facilities.
The Group prepares detailed rolling cash flow forecasts, which assist it in monitoring cash flow requirements and optimising its cash return on investments.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand and or lines of credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations: this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
com 105 The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type: As at 31.12.09 Between Between Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 US$000 1 year years years Total Interest bearing Ukrainian banks fixed rate interest 25,738 738 106 26,582 Other banks floating rate interest 224,911 6,725 10,574 242,210 Interest accrued 730 730 Future interest payable 9,923 3,827 2,674 16,424 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 24,780 24,780 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 12,146 12,146 Other financial liabilities 3,161 3,161 Total financial liabilities 301,389 11,290 13,354 326,033 As at 31.12.08 Between Between Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 US$000 1 year years years Total Interest bearing Ukrainian banks fixed rate interest 738 23,557 1,102 25,397 Other banks floating rate interest 71,715 206,714 278,429 Interest accrued 2,070 2,070 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 35,531 72 35,603 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 14,470 14,470 Total financial liabilities 124,524 230,343 1,102 355,969 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group.
Operating currencies for the Group are primarily the Ukrainian hryvnia, but also US dollars, Swiss francs, euro and sterling.
The Groups major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US dollars, with costs of local Ukrainian production mainly in hryvnia.
During the year the value of the hryvnia moved from being pegged to a managed float.
Further devaluation of the Ukrainian hryvnia will reduce the operating costs of the production unit in US dollars terms and the value of hryvnia payables recorded in the statement of financial position at the year end in US dollars.
As the majority of sales and receivables are denominated in US dollars, a devaluation in the local currency will result in operating exchange gains recorded in the income statement.
With a devaluation of the local currency, US dollar denominated loans held by the Ukrainian subsidiary will result in non-operating exchange losses to the extent these are not matched by US dollar denominated assets.
Fixed assets are similarly held in local currency amounts and a devaluation in the currency will result in reduced net asset vales which are recorded in reserves.
The National Bank of Ukraine NBU manages and determines the official exchange rates.
An inter-bank market for exchange of currencies exists in Ukraine and is monitored by the NBU.
The Group, through its financial institutions, exchanges currencies at bank offered market rates.
Trade receivables are predominately in US dollars and are not hedged.
Trade payables denominated in a US dollars are also not hedged on the market, but are matched against US dollar currency receipts.
This includes the interest expense which is principally payable in US dollars.
Trade receivables and trade payables in other currencies are not hedged as a forward market for the currency is generally not available.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
com 106 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 41: Financial instruments continued The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: As at 31.12.09 Ukraine Swiss Other US$000 hryvnia US dollar euro franc currencies Total Total financial assets 249 816 2 76 44 1,187 Financial liabilities Ukrainian banks 45,315 45,315 Interest accrued 188 5 193 Total borrowings 45,503 5 45,508 Commodity loans 124 124 Trade and other payables 2,246 811 763 139 3,959 Other financial liabilities 17 5 419 106 547 Total financial liabilities 47,766 945 1,182 245 50,138 Net financial assets liabilities 249 46,950 943 1,106 201 48,951 As at 31.12.08 Ukraine Swiss Other US$000 hryvnia US dollar euro franc currencies Total Total financial assets 264 56,050 921 1,288 58,523 Financial liabilities Ukrainian banks 25,396 25,396 Interest accrued 205 1 206 Total borrowings 25,601 1 25,602 Commodity loans 2,017 2,017 Trade and other payables 2,957 3,754 4,575 1,933 13,219 Other financial liabilities 14,334 1,506 15,840 Total financial liabilities 28,558 5,772 18,909 3,439 56,678 Net financial assets liabilities 264 27,492 5,772 17,988 2,151 1,845 Interest rate risk The Group predominantly borrows funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements.
The interest rate exposure to US dollars remained relatively low during the period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
Profile At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: As at 31.12.09 Other Floating Fixed non-interest US$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 10,227 1,465 299 11,991 Available-for-sale investments 3,543 3,543 Trade and other receivables 38,117 38,117 Other financial assets 2,550 1,169 3,719 Total financial assets 12,777 1,465 43,128 57,370 Weighted av.
interest rate % 7.7 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 24,780 24,780 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 12,146 12,146 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 251,036 18,486 269,522 Other financial liabilities 3,161 3,161 Total financial liabilities 251,036 18,486 40,087 309,609 Weighted av.
interest rate % 4.1 Financial Statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 107 As at 31.12.08 Other Floating Fixed non-interest US$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 30,157 54,769 2,896 87,822 Available-for-sale investments 5,085 5,085 Trade and other receivables 59,636 59,636 Other financial assets 10,169 10,169 Total financial assets 30,157 54,769 77,786 162,712 Weighted av.
interest rate % 0.3 2.7 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 2,017 29,089 31,106 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 14,470 14,470 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 305,895 1 305,896 Other financial liabilities Total financial liabilities 305,895 2,018 43,559 351,472 Weighted av.
interest rate % 5.0 The interest rate maturity profile for financial liabilities is shown under the liquidity risk section.
The interest rate maturity profile for financial assets is all current for both years, except for US$2 million of the floating rate loan to associate which matures between two to five years as at 31 December 2009 2008: US$3 million.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to longer-term movements in the price of iron ore, but does not have a commodity risk exposure to its financial assets and liabilities once the sale has been made.
Trade receivables are based on a fixed contract price, and so do not fluctuate with iron ore market prices.
Similarly finished goods are held at cost, with revaluation to a spot price not applicable for iron ore pellets, there being no tradable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
Sensitivity analysis A 20% strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased decreased income statement and equity by the amounts shown below.
This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Year ended 31.12.09 Year ended 31.12.08 Income Income statement statement US$000 Equity Equity UAH 9,440 5,446 EUR 189 1,154 CHF 221 3,598 Total 9,030 10,198 A 20% weakening of the US dollar against the above currencies would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group does not hold any derivatives eg interest rate swaps.
Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity for fixed and variable rate instruments An increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Net finance charge 2,080 1,449 A decrease in of 100 bp would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
com 108 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 41: Financial instruments continued Set out below are the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position: Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 3,543 5,085 3,543 5,085 Cash and cash equivalents 11,991 87,822 11,991 87,822 Total financial assets 15,534 92,907 15,534 92,907 Financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 269,522 305,896 276,295 274,668 Total financial liabilities 269,522 305,896 276,295 274,668 The fair values of interest bearing loans and borrowings are based on the cash flows discounted using market interest rates.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to their short maturity.
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31.12.09 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale financial assets 1,449 2,104 3,553 Total available-for-sale financial assets 1,449 2,104 3,553 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the period.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets Available-for-sale As at 31.12.2009 financial assets US$000 Unquoted equities Opening balance 4,000 Total gains or losses: in profit or loss 1,896 in other comprehensive income Purchases Issues Settlements Transfer out of level 3 Closing balance 2,104 Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding minority interests, and the level of dividends to Ordinary Shareholders.
Please refer to the Statement of Changes in Equity for details of the capital position of the Group.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
Access to securing borrowings in the context of the events affecting the global financial credit markets during the year has affected the elasticity at which the Board can maintain this balance.
The Board continues to support maintaining a sound capital base balanced against these market constraints.
com 109 The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Groups profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
During 2008 Ferrexpo plc undertook an on-market share buy-back of its shares, and off-market buy-back of shares held by the Groups principal shareholder.
Further details are provided in notes 30 and 36.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than a bank covenant requirement to maintain consolidated equity in respect of the Ferrexpo AG group of US$300 million including minority interests.
Compliance is ensured by balancing dividend payments against the earnings of the Ferrexpo AG group.
For more information about the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, see note 31.
Note 42: Share-based payments Listing bonus share award Share awards were granted in 2007 to certain senior management following the successful listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007.
A proportion of the award vests immediately with the remainder vesting over a period of up to four years, provided that the individual is still in the employment of the Group on the date of vesting.
It has been assumed that all awards will vest.
The fair values of the awards were determined to be the closing share price on the date of award.
The weighted average fair value WAFV of awards granted was determined at the date of grant to be $3.33 per share.
The unvested portion of the award does not accrue dividends.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The expense recognised under the scheme during the year to 31 December 2009 is US$427,000 2008: US$3,471,000, all of which arose from equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
000 Beginning of the year 3.63 3.63 442 2,403 Awards granted during the year Vested during the year 3.63 3.63 349 1,948 Forfeited during the year 3.63 3.63 2 13 Outstanding at 31 December 3.63 3.63 91 442 Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs 320,000 share awards were granted on 15 September 2009.
In 2008, 695,000 shares were awarded under the LTIP, which runs for three years and 415,000 shares were awarded under the Interim LTIP, which runs for two years.
The LTIP and Interim LTIP are subject to a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to a comparator group, measured over the vesting period, as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The expense recognised during 2009 was in respect of the 2009 LTIP was US$80,000.
In addition to the costs for the 2009 LTIP, US$1,863,000 2008: US$809,000 in respect of the 2008 LTIP and US$1,480,000 2008: US$686,000 in respect of the Interim LTIP have been recorded in 2009.
The awards of the Interim LTIP were forfeited as they did not satisfy the market related performance conditions as of 31 December 2009.
The fair value of these awards was assessed at their grant date using a simulation or Monte Carlo model consistent with the mathematics underlying the standard Black-Scholes options pricing model, extended to allow for the performance conditions.
Each simulation of the model projects the Companys and comparators share prices with reinvested dividends over the vesting period, allowing for the volatilities and correlations between the shares as estimated from historical data.
From this projection the proportion of awards vesting, and the value to employees, is calculated.
100,000 simulations were run to calculate the fair values.
The fair value is set as the average value over all the simulations.
com 110 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 42: Share-based payments continued Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 WAFV $ WAFV $ No.
000 LTIP Beginning of the year 5.52 695 Awards granted during the year 1.94 5.52 320 695 Forfeited during the year 5.52 180 Lapsed during the year 5.52 25 Vested during the year Outstanding at 31 December 4.11 5.52 810 695 Interim LTIP Beginning of the year 5.22 415 Awards granted during the year 5.22 415 Forfeited during the year 5.22 415 Vested during the year Outstanding at 31 December 5.22 415 Note 43: Operating profit by function Before Year Before Year adjusting Adjusted ended adjusting Adjusted ended US$000 Notes items items 31.12.09 items items 31.12.08 Revenue 6 648,667 648,667 1,116,854 1,116,854 Cost of sales 7 341,067 341,067 434,238 434,238 Gross profit 307,600 307,600 682,616 682,616 Selling and distribution expenses 8 162,266 162,266 152,528 152,528 General and administrative expenses 9 43,161 43,161 67,185 67,185 Other income 10 4,102 4,102 6,387 6,387 Other expenses 11 3,418 2,468 5,886 38,040 3,603 34,437 Operating foreign exchange gain 12 2,534 2,534 29,309 29,309 Operating profit 105,391 2,468 102,923 460,559 3,603 464,162 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 1,571 1,571 Share of gains of associates 14 1,304 1,304 1,003 1,003 Total profit from operations and associates 106,695 2,468 104,227 461,562 5,174 466,736 Summary of adjusted items Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Operating adjusting items Write-offs and impairment losses 13 2,757 27,326 Negative goodwill 15 503 35,049 Initial public offering costs 42 427 4,120 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 213 Total operating adjusting items 2,468 3,603 Non-operating adjusting items Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 36 1,571 Total non-operating adjusting items 1,571 Note 44: Subsequent events No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end other than the proposed dividend disclosed in note 18 and the refinancing of the Group described below.
The Company entered into a new three year bank debt term facility on 27 November 2009 in the amount of US$230 million.
com 111 Parent company statement of financial position As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.09 31.12.08 Assets Investments 2 134,732 134,732 Total non-current assets 134,732 134,732 Amounts due from subsidiaries 181,026 213,025 Deferred tax assets 3 1,596 1,725 Prepayments and other current assets 1,121 724 Other taxes recoverable and prepaid 10 12 Cash at bank and in hand 25 295 Total current assets 183,778 215,781 Total assets 318,510 350,513 Equity and liabilities Share capital 4 121,628 121,628 Share premium 4 185,112 185,112 Treasury share reserve 4 77,260 77,260 Employee benefit trust reserve 4 11,593 15,443 Retained earnings 4 96,583 134,508 Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 4 314,470 348,545 Trade and other payables 357 109 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 450 1,494 Income taxes payable Other taxes payable 5 3,233 365 Total liabilities 4,040 1,968 Total equity and liabilities 318,510 350,513 All liabilities held by the Company are current in nature.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2010.
Kostyantin Zhevago Christopher Mawe Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 112 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 1: Parent company accounting policies Basis of preparation The parent company financial statements of Ferrexpo plc are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and were approved for issue on 22 March 2010.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and are prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial Instruments, under its section 2D a.
Disclosures and narratives have not included information required by that standard, as the Groups consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 3C of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosure: Related party transactions and balances of wholly owned subsidiaries are not disclosed.
There are no related party transactions and balances for subsidiaries to be disclosed, which are not wholly owned.
Investments Equity investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any provision for impairments.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the reporting date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the reporting date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Foreign currencies The Companys functional currency and presentation currency is US dollars.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Nonmonetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments The Company does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
The Company has not designated any financial asset as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
com 113 Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Investments in subsidiaries undertakings are held at cost.
The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of its recoverable amount valuation.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognised in administration costs.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
All costs related to the share-based payments of the Group are recorded in Ferrexpo plc.
Note 42 provides further information on the valuation related to the share-based payments and the costs recorded.
Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Company are classified in capital and reserves, as employee benefit trust reserves and recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Note 2: Investments Investment in US$000 subsidiary equity At 31 December 2009 and 2008 134,732 The balance above relates to the Companys investment in Ferrexpo AG which is a 100% owned subsidiary based on Switzerland.
Note 3: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2009 relate to the following: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Deferred tax assets: Tax loss recognised 370 Timing difference on IPO costs 1,226 1,725 1,596 1,725 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 114 F Fina inan ncial cial S St ta at te em men ent ts s Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 4: Capital and reserves Treasury Employee Issued Share share benefit trust Retained Total US$000 capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity At 1 January 2008 121,628 188,566 20,092 17,401 272,701 Profit for the period 190,863 190,863 Total comprehensive income for the year 190,863 190,863 Deferred tax on transaction costs 1,725 1,725 Write off of deferred tax on IPO costs 5,179 5,179 Deferred tax on employee benefits 317 317 Share buyback in parent company 77,260 77,260 Equity dividends paid to shareholders 38,954 38,954 Share-based payments 4,966 4,966 At 31 December 2008 121,628 185,112 77,260 15,443 134,508 348,545 Profit for the period 1,625 1,625 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,625 1,625 Equity dividends paid to shareholders 39,550 39,550 Share-based payments 3,850 3,850 At 31 December 2009 121,628 185,112 77,260 11,593 96,583 314,470 Note 5: Other taxes payable Other taxes payable at 31 December 2009 comprises the following taxes: As at As at US$000 31.12.09 31.12.08 Other taxes payable: Withholding tax on dividend 3,225 Other taxes 8 365 3,233 365 Note 6: Auditor remuneration The audit fee in respect of the parent company was US$16,000 2008: US$10,000.
Note 7: Subsequent events No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end other than the proposed dividend disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements and the refinancing of the Group described below.
