Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 60 Corporate Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under applicable UK law and requirements of the Financial In relation to the Group financial statements Services Authority, the Directors are responsible for the The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial preparation of a Directors report, Directors remuneration report statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and corporate governance report that comply with these laws and requirements.
In addition the Directors are responsible for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in have prepared the financial statements in accordance with the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Under the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Disclosure and financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true Transparency Rules the Directors are responsible for including a and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit fair review of the development and performance of the business or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial and the position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a statements, the Directors are required to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Annual Report and Accounts and prudent: We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our state whether applicable International Financial Reporting knowledge: Standards have been followed, subject to any material a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, departures disclosed and explained in the financial liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the statements: and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis whole: and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will b the management report entitled Business Review includes a continue in business.
fair review of the development and performance of the business, and the principal risks and uncertainties that In relation to the parent company financial statements they face.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
For and on behalf of the Board Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance Michael Abrahams with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Chairman United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or Christopher Mawe loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Chief Financial Officer Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In relation to the Group and parent company financial statements The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Group and Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with respect to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
