Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69 Notice of Annual General Meeting Fidessa group plc This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth Annual General Meeting of Fidessa group plc the Company will be held at One Old Jewry, London EC2R 8DN on 27th April 2010 at 1.30 p. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2009 together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
To consider, and if thought fit, to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2009.
To re-elect Andy Malpass who retires by rotation as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Ron Mackintosh who retires by rotation as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: a to authorise the directors generally and unconditionally pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,193,634.70 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities allotted under paragraph b below in excess of 1,193,634.70 provided that this authority unless renewed shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution, such authority being in substitution for any existing authority to allot shares or grant Rights but so as to enable the Company before such date to make offers or agreements which would or might require shares to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: and further b to authorise the directors generally and unconditionally to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the said Act in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,387,269.40 such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted under sub-paragraph i above provided that this authority unless renewed shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution, but so as to enable the Company before such date to make offers or agreements which would or might require shares to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Subject to the passing of resolution 7 above, to consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: to empower the directors in accordance with Section 570 of the Act, until the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution, to make allotments of equity securities as construed in accordance with section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority that was conferred on the directors by Resolution 7 above as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, such power being limited to the allotment of equity securities: a in connection with an issue or offer by way of rights in favour of holders of equity securities and of any other person entitled to participate in such issue or offering where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders and persons are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them on the record date of such allotment or are otherwise in accordance with their respective entitlements, subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange: and Fidessa group plc 70 Notice of Annual General Meeting Fidessa group plc continued b otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 179,063.10: save that the Company may, before expiry of that authority, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: that the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company upon such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company shall determine provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 3,581,262 representing approximately 10 per cent.
of the Company's issued ordinary share capital at the date of the Notice of this Meeting : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p per share excluding expenses being the nominal amount thereof: c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotation of an ordinary share of the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase is made: d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date which is fifteen months after the date on which this resolution is passed: and e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: that a general meeting of the Company, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Registered Office Registered in England and Wales Dukes Court Number 03234176 S Freeman Duke Street Secretary Woking, Surrey 12th February 2010 GU21 5BH Notes 1.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered in the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting is 6.00 p. m. on 25th April 2010.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is 6.00 p. m. on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the relevant time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of such members rights to attend, speak and vote on behalf of the member at the Annual General Meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid a proxy form must be lodged with the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
Members may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Members may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between himself herself and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have the right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may under any such agreement have a right to give Annual Report and Accounts 2009 71 instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2 above do not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note may only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Any corporate member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, a member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions in relation to the business of the meeting.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company of the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Copies of the contracts of service between the directors and the Company, the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors and the directors indemnities are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during each business day and will be available for inspection at One Old Jewry, London for 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The register of interests of directors and their families in the shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the commencement of, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
As at 11th February 2010 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice, the Company's issued share capital consisted of 35,812,623 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
The total voting rights in the Company as at 11th February 2010 are therefore 35,812,623.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited's specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent IDRA19 by 1.30 p. m. on 25th April 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that the a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A copy of this notice and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on the group's website www.
Fidessa group plc 72 Notice of Annual General Meeting Fidessa group plc continued 13.
Directors' authority to allot securities.
Section 551 Companies Act 2006: this Ordinary Resolution, if approved, will authorise the directors to i allot shares with an aggregate nominal amount of up to 1,193,634.70, representing 33.33% of the issued share capital at 12th February 2010 : and ii allot further shares, including the shares referred to in paragraph b of resolution 7 with an aggregate nominal amount of up to 2,387,269.40 representing 66.66% of the issued share capital at 12th February 2010, in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders: for a period of fifteen months or, if earlier, until the end of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
This authority succeeds that granted in 2009 under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 which has now been superseded by the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have no current intention to allot shares except in connection with employee share incentive schemes.
However, it is considered prudent to maintain the flexibility that this authority provides.
If they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use as recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
Under Section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006, this Special Resolution will, if approved, partially disapply the statutory pre-emption rights for a period of fifteen months or, if earlier, until the end of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, in order to provide the directors with a limited power to issue equity securities for cash otherwise than pro rata to ordinary shareholders, which following the introduction of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 now extends to the sale of shares from treasury.
The existing power to this effect will expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
The resolution conforms with the guidelines of the Investment Committee of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds and, if approved, will maintain the flexibility for the Company to allot shares for cash either by way of a rights issue or up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 176,063.10, representing 5% of the issued share capital at the date of the Notice of this Meeting.
The directors intend to renew this authority annually.
Authority to purchase own shares.
The ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this Special Resolution will be either cancelled on buy-back or held in treasury.
No more than 10% of the issued share capital may be held in treasury.
The directors only intend to exercise this power if they believe that it would increase earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally, or in the case of creation of treasury shares, that to do so would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Changes made to the Act by the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 10 seeks such approval.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Notwithstanding the ability to call a general meeting of the Company on 14 clear days' notice the Company will give as much notice as is practicable when calling a general meeting, consistent with the relevant circumstances, in order to give shareholders adequate time to consider their voting decision.
