RePORT OF The DIReCTORS Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in consistently: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted explained in the financial statements: and by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and that the parent company financial statements comply with the recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of required to: the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the properly select and apply accounting policies: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: information: and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events in the consolidation taken as a whole: and and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial performance of the business and the position of the Company statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and whole, together with a description of the principal risks and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are uncertainties that they face.
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51
