Current business conditions Understanding the markets in which we operate We strive to understand our customers businesses and offer innovative services and facilities which will deliver a more efficient supply chain.
We operate in diverse markets.
Ports, Scotland of crude oil and refined petroleum market.
The Ports Centric concept has products including LPG.
Tourism is now matured at Tilbury whereby our Comprising of the Ports of Dundee, Methil, supported by cruise calls and ferry customers are working closely with us Kirkcaldy, Burntisland, Leith and Scotlands operations whilst construction imports to improve the management of their largest Port in terms of throughputs comprise timber, steel and dry bulk supply chains to minimise land and Grangemouth, the Scottish Ports division products such as aggregates and cement.
warehouse requirements within the of Forth Ports PLC plays a varied and The most varied sector is logistics where Port, allowing the space created to be important role in Scotlands economy and goods handled include textiles, supermarket re-utilised, creating greater is Scotlands global gateway.
volumes, cars, whiskey and wine.
opportunities for growth and enhanced market share.
Each of the Scottish Ports offers 24 7 Ports, Tilbury operations and multimodal solutions The Tilbury cargo base is wide and bringing road, rail and sea together at Tilburys geographical position on the varied, covering Containers, which natural intersect points for logistics.
The River Thames, London serving in the places Tilbury No.
3 in the UK in volume Ports are multi purpose and offer a broad main the South East of the UK with a terms, Forest Products, which including range of services for cargo handling, with population of 27 million within 120 miles paper handling puts Tilbury No.
1 in the associated down stream activities and from the Port, is a prime factor why we UK, Agricultural Products which places added value services.
Our Ports support remain a significant economic driver for Tilbury as the UKs No.
1 for the a broad range of industry sectors.
These the UK positioned within the Thames combined import export Grain handling.
include agriculture with imports of dry Gateway Regeneration zone and perfectly bulk for fertiliser blending and products placed to meet the logistics challenges of With an overall across the quay tonnage destined for the animal and human food the 2012 Olympics and Cross Rail projects.
for 2009 of over 12 million tonnes, chains.
Exports include seed, potatoes supplemented by a further 2 million and grain for feeds and alcohol Our ability to serve a broad base of tonnes coming in by road and rail, this production.
Oil and gas industry is also transport modes and cargoes on a flexible is a major Port distribution centre with a multi faceted sector with North Sea basis has allowed Tilbury to grow its 5 million sq.
ft of warehousing within a offshore support and liquid bulk exports business in 2009 within a difficult global 900 acre site.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Our market and customers continue landfill for a number of blue chip clients.
Energy to require us to grow on a sustainable The Data Management division provides The Scottish Government has set a basis and with a planning application for a secure destruction service for target that 50% of Scottish demand the recently acquired 65 acres of land confidential documents while recovering for electricity should be met from outside of the Freeport being submitted in the value from those materials.
The Scottish the first half of 2010, this will enable us to strong value chain enables the company Government has a policy of seeking to serve the market needs for growth, whilst to collect, process, treat and recycle a encourage a mix of renewable energy we remain fully focussed on our wide range of waste streams.
This allows technologies with growing contributions environmental responsibilities with a the company to compete effectively in a from wind, wave, tidal and solar energy reduction on the use of our electricity majority of waste market sectors.
and a greater use of fuel from wood and charges, alternative energy sources and a other energy crops.
To support this complete workforce aware of how we can Property policy Forth Ports, in collaboration with be more environmentally sensitive whilst our partners, Scottish and Southern Since the summer of 2008, the property achieving our cost service objectives.
We Energy, are progressing with the market has seen a dramatic downturn expect four new Wind Turbines to be development of wind farms at the Ports across all sectors.
At its root, this was the constructed during 2010, commencement of Dundee and Grangemouth under the result of a lack of liquidity in the form of of a 60MW Biomass plant, adding to the name of Forth Energy.
These wind farms senior debt finance used to leverage most already significant reduction in our will have a total energy capacity of transactions, in both commercial and electricity usage of 17% within the last 21MW.
In addition, Forth Energy is also residential property.
However, it has been two years, demonstrating that this is proposing to develop four renewable so severe as to precipitate a general lack really having a positive effect.
energy plants at the Ports of Dundee, of confidence in underlying value.
The Our port is the closest deep short sea port total renewable electrical output from Commercial property values have to a majority of the UKs population, we these plants will be up to 500MW.
The recovered some of the lost ground over continue to grow our business whilst fuel stock for the renewable energy the latter part of 2009.
There is a working with our customers to achieve this plants will be sustainably sourced significant weight of money ready to sustainable improvement in their supply wood products which will be delivered, invest in property and a shortage of prime chain, as well as meeting the environmental predominately, by maritime means.
The property available for sale.
However, debt challenges as the UKs proven South East plants will also be capable of exporting finance is still in short supply, and Port Centric logistics location.
so a short-term, cash driven outlook prevails which focuses on prime incomeRecycling producing assets, and does not favour Nordic is ideally placed to exploit the large-scale development with longer-term commercial opportunities that exist in the returns.
Tilbury MRF is ideally situated on the outskirts of Residential property appears to have London.
It is a highly mechanised facility, resisted a wholesale crash, with prices able to efficiently process co-mingled generally still rising slowly, but specific material collected by municipalities plus sectors have suffered more than others.
other mixed dry recyclables produced in New-build block-style apartments are the private sector.
Nordic has an selling at discounts of 30% to 40% on experienced materials trading team, able 2007 values, due to oversupply and a to buy and sell recyclate at premium change in consumer perception.
The Waste Brokerage division is a market which Forth Ports have has achieved a target of zero waste to traditionally sold into.
