Glossary 1 The DTZ Valuation dated 31st December 2009 includes the term Market Value which is defined in the current version of The Appraisal and Valuation Manual issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book as: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
2 The property development assets which DTZ have valued include the undernoted assets: Land at the Port of Leith covered by the Groups Leith Docks Outline Planning approval: The development sites called The Harbour, Leith Docks, Granton Harbour and Western Harbour, all of which are in Leith: Development sites at Grangemouth, Burntisland and Methil: and The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
3 Property Valuation Approach used by DTZ The undernoted paragraphs are taken from the DTZ Valuation Report as at 31st December 2009.
When we reported our last valuation, the property industry and economy had undergone a dramatic change resulting in substantially reduced levels of property investment and the virtual cessation of all development activity, particularly in the residential sector.
As set out in our last report, our entire approach to the Valuation of the Groups property development assets changed to reflect what we consider would be the approach the wider market would take at the date of Valuation.
Since then the economy of the UK has been officially in recession with the first signs of recovery only now starting to be seen.
During the early part of 2009, the property market continued its decline reaching its nadir at the end of the first quarter.
Since June however, the investment market has seen a dramatic resurgence resulting in a substantially increased level of activity, particularly for well let commercial property.
The residential sector has also shown some signs of recovery although there is no evidence to suggest that the recovery is yet sustained enough to enable new developments to be undertaken.
2009 was also notable for the collapse or near collapse of a number of house builders.
The increased activity in the investment markets was largely initially focussed on the prime end of the market.
The shortage of stock has however seen this activity expand into the better end of the secondary sector Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 109 Up until the early part of 2008, there had been a strong appetite from a wide variety of investors seeking an involvement in major mixed use development projects, with both debt and equity available from a wide range of sources.
The impact of the banking and economic environment and the downturn in the property sector has resulted in very limited bank lending and virtually none for development projects.
In this economic environment we are of the view that the approach we adopted in valuing the Groups assets last year is still valid and that the market would place little or no value on the residential development potential of the properties.
Our revised approach to the Valuation of the Groups major property development assets is summarised below: Granton Harbour We have continued to allow development value on a small section of the site at a discounted rate, but have otherwise continued to disregard the remainder of the land on the basis that it is not viable to develop reclaim in the current market.
Where land is income producing from the letting of existing property, we have valued on a conventional basis.
Western Harbour The approach has been the same as for Granton Harbour.
We have allowed for the development of a small part of the site, but only included the land at a discounted rate, as viability is marginal.
The Harbour, Leith Docks This part of the proposed development has continued to be impacted by the downturn in the commercial markets, again making the viability of development very marginal.
A value has been applied to the residual land as it does occupy the key part of the main site and the overall entrance to the scheme.
Leith Docks We have disregarded all previous planned development on the site on the basis of viability and reflected a value based on the ongoing use of the site in its Port use.
Grangemouth As with other sites, development land has been substantially marked down to reflect viability and existing income valued in perpetuity.
4 Definition The definition of the word underlying in the context of an adjustment to a reported number is as follows: i Underlying group port recycling property operating profit refers to the reported group port recycling property operating profit adjusted to exclude the effect of any revaluation of the investment properties and any exceptional items.
This definition has been changed to include the amortisation charge arising from acquisitions.
All calculations of underlying figures for previous years have been restated accordingly.
ii Underlying profit before tax, underlying profit after tax and underlying earnings per share refer to reported profit before tax, reported profit after tax and reported basic earnings per share adjusted as above in 4 i together with an adjustment for any revaluation of joint ventures investment property.
