G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting 120 THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt about the contents of this document or the action you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in G4S plc, please send this notice and the accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected so that it can be passed on to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of G4S plc will be held at Ironmongers Hall, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on Friday, 28 May 2010 at 2.00pm in order to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions: Resolutions 1 to 9 and 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 10, 11, 13 and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009 and the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
To confirm and declare dividends.
To re-elect Alf Duch-Pedersen, a director and member of the Nomination Committee who is retiring by rotation.
To re-elect Lord Condon, a director and member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees who is retiring by rotation.
To re-elect Nick Buckles, a director who is retiring by rotation.
To re-elect Mark Elliott, a director and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees who is retiring by rotation.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders, and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 117,540,000: and ii comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of the 2006 Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 117,540,000 provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date s, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexpired authorities granted previously to the directors to allot relevant securities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the 2006 Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
That the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 570 of the 2006 Act, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 9 above as if section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph ii of Resolution 9 above, by way of rights issue only to or in favour of the holders of shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of shares held by them on any such record date s, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 9 i above, up to a maximum nominal amount of 17,630,000: and shall expire on the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 9 above unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
All previous unutilised authorities under section 95 of the 1985 Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 121 11.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine, provided that: i the maximum number of such shares which may be purchased is 141,000,000: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each such share is 25p exclusive of all expenses : iii the maximum price which may be paid for each such share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share in the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of expenses : and iv this authority shall, unless previously revoked or varied, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 except in relation to the purchase of such shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the 2006 Act, the Company and all companies which are subsidiaries of the Company during the period when this resolution 12 has effect be and are hereby unconditionally authorised to: i make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates not exceeding 50,000 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 50,000 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 50,000 in total: as such terms are defined in the 2006 Act during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on 27 November 2011 or, if sooner.
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 provided that the authorised sum referred to in paragraphs i, ii and iii above may be comprised of one or more amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said sum, shall be converted into pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London edition of the Financial Times on the date on which the relevant donation is made or expenditure incurred or the first business day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day in which the Company enters into any contract or undertaking in relation to the same.
That, with immediate effect: i the Companys Articles of Association be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the 2006 Act, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the Companys existing Articles of Association.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the board Peter David Secretary The Manor 24 March 2010 Manor Royal Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN Company No.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Capita Registrars, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, in each case no later than 2.00pm on 26 May 2010.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraphs 8 and 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in this paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 5.30pm on 26 May 2010 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two working days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 23 March 2010 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 1,410,568,639 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 March 2010 are 1,410,568,639.
G G4 4S p S pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 09 9 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 122 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 2.00pm on 26 May 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
A c opy of the current articles of association and the proposed new articles of association that reflect the amendments proposed by Resolution 13 will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the offices of G4S plc, The Manor, Manor Royal, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9UN up until the close of the meeting.
Copies will also be available at the offices of Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS up until the close of the meeting and on the companys website at www.
A copy will also be available at Ironmongers Hall, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA from 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
Any electronic address or web site address is provided in this Notice of Meeting solely for the purpose stated expressly herein and may not be used to communicate with the Company other than for such purpose.
