1 2 4 6 3 5 7 Board of Directors Genus plc 1.
Nigel Turner 60 Chairman Chief Executive Senior Non-Executive Director John Hawkins joined the Board Richard Wood is a graduate Nigel Turner joined the Board in in June 2000 and was appointed chartered chemical engineer.
He January 2008 and is Chairman of Chairman of the Board and the worked for ICI for 23 years and is the Remuneration Committee.
He Nomination Committee in August a former Managing Director of ICI is a non-executive director of Croda 2004.
He is Chief Executive of Atex Seeds UK.
He then worked for 7 plc and was the Chairman of Numis Group Limited and Chairman of years in the pharmaceutical industry, Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman Psion plc.
He was formerly Chief firstly as Chief Executive of Daniels of Numis Corporation plc from Executive of Anite Group plc after Pharmaceutical Limited until it was December 2005 to November 2007. being with Philips Electronics for 19 acquired by Lloyds Chemists plc Previously he was Vice Chairman years, latterly as European President and then as Managing Director of a of ABN AMROs Wholesale and of Philips Media.
He joined Genus Investment Bank in which he had as Chief Executive in December 1996. specific responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance and Equity businesses.
John Worby 58 bank in 2000 from Lazard, where he Finance Director was a partner for 15 years and sat John Worby joined the Board in on its Supervisory Board.
September 2004 and was Chairman of the Audit Committee until he became Group Finance Director 5.
He is a nonNon-Executive Director executive director of Cranswick Mike Buzzacott joined the Board plc and Smiths News plc, and was in May 2009 and is Chairman of previously Deputy Chairman and the Audit Committee.
He spent 34 Finance Director of Uniq plc formerly years at BP holding a number of Unigate plc having been Finance international roles including Finance & Director of Wincanton Ltd. Control Director Asia Pacific, CFO BP Nutrition and Group Vice President Petrochemicals.
He is a non-executive director and Audit Committee chairman of Croda Plc and a nonexecutive director of Scapa Plc.
He was Chairman of Biofuels Plc from 2006 until its re-registration in 2007 as a private company.
26 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements 8 9 10 Chief Operating Officers Genus plc 6.
Philip Acton 51 Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer - The Chief Operating Officer Europe & Professor Furr recently retired as Americas The Far East Chief Scientist and Head of Project Ian Biggs is a graduate chartered Philip Acton is a graduate chartered Evaluation for AstraZeneca plc after accountant having qualified with accountant having qualified with 34 years of service.
He joined Genus in 2000 Deloitte.
He joined Genus in 1995 executive director of the Medicines and was Chief Operating Officer for and was its Finance Director until and Healthcare Products Regulatory bovine genetics until December 2005 March 2003 when he became the Agency and was awarded an OBE in when, with the acquisition of Sygen Chief Operating Officer of Genus 2000 for his services to cancer drug International plc, he became Chief Animal Health.
He joined the Board in Operating Officer of the Americas of acquisition of Sygen in December December 2006 and chairs the Boards the enlarged group.
Prior to joining 2005 he became Chief Operating Science Committee.
He is the author of Genus he was with Roslin Bio Med, Officer of Europe & The Far East.
more than 160 papers on reproductive a company formed by the Roslin Prior to joining Genus he worked for endocrinology and antihormones.
Institute and before that he was with 10 years in the electrical engineering PIC, which became Sygen, first as sector and was Group Finance 7.
Ian Farrelly 41 Group Finance Director and later as Director of Scholes Group plc.
Group Company Secretary & Managing Director of the European General Counsel business followed by being head of 10.
Steve Amies 58 Ian Farrelly is a solicitor.
He joined North American operations.
Chief Operating Officer Global Genus in June 2006 from Microgen Research & Product Development plc where he was Group General Steve Amies is an agriculture Counsel.
He was previously Group graduate from Reading University.
He Solicitor & Company Secretary of joined Genus at its inception in 1994.
Diagonal plc after being Solicitor to Thereafter he held a range of posts Hays plc.
across product development and operations, culminating in the post of Managing Director of the Companys UK and European bovine breeding business.
Following completion of the Sygen acquisition in December 2005 he became Chief Operating Officer of Global Research & Product Development.
