Corporate Governance Directors Responsibilities Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern The Business Review on pages 6 to 25 sets out the Groups position and prospects, in particular: the Groups business activities, their performance and position are set out on pages 10 to 14: the financial position of the Group including cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and treasury risk management policies are set out on pages 18 to 22: and the risk factors facing the Group and mitigating actions in place are described on page 23.
In addition, notes 27 and 28 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups bank facilities, borrowings under such facilities and details of the Groups financial instruments.
After reviewing the available information including the Groups business plans and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors Responsibilities Statement The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Signed: Richard Wood John Worby Chief Executive Group Finance Director 9 September 2009 44 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Group Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Genus plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Genus plc for the year ended 30 June 2009 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Statement contained within the Directors Report in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Genus plc for the year ended 30 June 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 9 September 2009 Genus Annual Report 2009 I 45
