Financial Statements Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Genus plc, please send this document and the accompanying documents to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Genus plc the Company will be held at Buchanan Communications, 45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE on 12 November 2009 at 2.30pm for the following purposes: To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which numbers 1 to 7 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and numbers 8 to 10 as special resolutions.
To receive and approve the Companys audited financial statements and directors and auditors reports for the year ended 30 June 2009.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2009.
To declare and approve a final dividend of 11 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 11 December 2009.
To elect Mike Buzzacott as a director of the Company who, being eligible, submits himself for election.
To re-elect Barry Furr as a director of the Company who retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which financial statements are laid and to authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the Act up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,646,412 being 16,464,126 ordinary shares of 10 pence each Ordinary Shares, such authority to expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following but so that the Company may, before the expiry of such period, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT subject to and conditional on the passing of resolution 7, the directors be empowered, pursuant to section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 to section 94 3A of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: 8.1 in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights issue: and 8.2 otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph 8.1 above up to an aggregate nominal amount of 297,626 being 2,976,263 Ordinary Shares representing not more than 5 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2009, and shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 were omitted.
In this resolution, rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to holders on the register on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their respective holdings, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties under the laws of, or the requirement of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory.
THAT subject to and in accordance with article 9 of the Companys articles of association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares on such terms as the directors think fit provided that: Genus Annual Report 2009 I 109 Notice of Annual General Meeting 9.1 the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,952,527 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 June 2009 : 9.2 the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10 pence: 9.3 the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of: a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days immediately before the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: and 9.4 the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following or 18 months after the date of its passing whichever occurs first, except that the Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract for the purchase of Ordinary Shares which will or may be completed by or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority.
THAT a general meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice and that such authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following.
Registered office: By order of the Board Belvedere House Basing View Basingstoke RG21 4HG Registered in England and Wales with number 02972325 9 October 2009 Ian Farrelly Group Company Secretary & General Counsel 110 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Financial Statements Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTES: This notice is being sent to all members and to any person nominated by a member of the Company under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from www.
Members will find an attendance card and a form of proxy enclosed with this notice.
If you are attending the Annual General Meeting, you should bring the attendance card with you.
Only holders of Ordinary Shares, or their duly appointed representatives, are entitled to attend, vote and speak at the Annual General Meeting.
Any member so entitled may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
Details of how to appoint one or more proxies are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
A member may appoint more that one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, a duly executed form of proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting together, if appropriate, with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the offices of Equiniti Registrars, SEA10845, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZJ at least 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Alternatively, proxies may be appointed by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you are a user of the CREST system further details are below.
In the case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if they wish to do so.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the 2006 Act nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered member who hold shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is 6.00pm on 10 November 2009 or if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, members on the register of members not later than 6.00pm on the day that is two days prior to the reconvened Annual General Meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the relevant time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of contracts of service and letters of appointment between the directors and the Company will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting until its conclusion.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 November 2009 at 2.30pm and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual found on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting Genus Annual Report 2009 I 111 Notice of Annual General Meeting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
As at 30 June 2009 the Companys issued share capital comprised 59,525,274 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 30 June 2009 is 59,525,274.
The Companys website, referred to above, will include information on the number of shares and voting rights.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question a member asks relating to the business being dealt with at the Annual General Meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Annual General Meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Annual General Meeting that the question be answered.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted on a show of hands.
Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the Annual General Meeting should call Equiniti registrars on 0871 384 2290.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of Annual General Meeting: or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
112 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Genus Global Operations About Genus Advisors A World Leader Genus plc Secretary & Registered Office Stockbrokers Financial Advisors Genus is a world leader in applying science to animal breeding.
I B Farrelly KBC Peel Hunt Morgan Stanley Belvedere House 111 Old Broad Street 25 Cabot Square Genus creates advances to animal breeding through Basing View London Canary Wharf biotechnology and sells added value products for livestock Basingstoke EC2N 1PH London Hampshire E14 4QA farming and food producers.
Its non-Genetically Modified Singer Capital Markets Limited RG21 4HG Organism GMO technology is applicable across all livestock One Hanover Street Singer Capital Markets Limited Registered Number 2972325 London One Hanover Street species but is only commercialised by Genus in the bovine and W1S 1YZ London porcine farming sectors.
W1S 1YZ Genus worldwide sales are made in seventy countries under Solicitors Auditors Bankers the trademarks ABS dairy and beef cattle and PIC pigs and Deloitte LLP Berwin Leighton Paisner Barclays plc comprise semen and breeding animals with superior genetics Hill House Adelaide House 1 Marsden Street to those animals currently in production.
Customers animals 1 Little New Street London Bridge Manchester London London M2 1HW produce offspring with greater production efficiency, milk and EC4A 3TR EC4R 9HA meat output and quality and use these to supply the global dairy and meat supply chain.
Registrars The Groups competitive edge has been created from the ownership and control of proprietary lines of breeding animals, Equiniti Limited Aspect House the biotechnology used to improve them and the Groups global Spencer Road production and distribution network.
Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Headquartered in Basingstoke, England, Genus companies operate in thirty countries on six continents, with research laboratories located in Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
Photographs of Picston Shottle p. 16 & 20 & Garrison p. 22 by Han Hopman.
Photograph of Boliver p. 13 by Els Korsten.
Design & production by Accrue, www.
co. uk Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Breeding Long Term Success Genus plc Belvedere House Basing View Basingstoke Hampshire RG21 4HG www.
