106 Notes to the financial statements The following new standards and interpretations have not yet been 4 New accounting requirements endorsed by the EU: The following new and amended accounting standards and IFRIC interpretations have been issued by the IASB and are likely to The IASBs annual improvements project was published in April affect future Annual Reports, although none is expected to have a 2009 and most of the changes are effective from 1st January 2010. material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
The project makes minor amendments to a number of Standards in areas including operating segments, share-based payments, leases, IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations was issued in January intangible assets and financial instruments.
2008 and will apply to business combinations arising from 1st January 2010.
Amongst other changes, the new Standard An amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Group cashwill require recognition of subsequent changes in the fair value settled share-based payment transactions was issued in June of contingent consideration in the income statement rather 2009 and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2010. than against goodwill, and transaction costs to be recognised The amendment clarifies the scope of IFRS 2 and the accounting immediately in the income statement.
Fair value gains or for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the losses on existing investments in an acquired company will be financial statements of individual group entities.
recognised in the income statement at the date of acquisition.
IAS 24 Revised Related party disclosures was issued in November IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements 2009 and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2011. was issued in January 2008 and will be implemented at the The revised Standard clarifies the definition of a related party and same time as IFRS 3 Revised.
In respect of transactions with provides some exemptions for government related entities.
non-controlling interests in Group entities that do not result IFRS 9 Financial instruments was issued in November 2009 in a change of control, the revised Standard requires that the and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2013.
The difference between the consideration paid or received and the Standard is the first step in the project to replace IAS 39 and recorded non-controlling interest is recognised in equity.
In the covers the classification and measurement of financial assets.
case of divestment of a subsidiary, any retained interest will be The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 to add new requirements for the remeasured to fair value and the difference between fair value and classification and measurement of financial liabilities, derecognition the previous carrying value will be recognised immediately in the of financial instruments, impairment and hedge accounting to income statement.
become a complete replacement of IAS 39 by the end of 2010.
IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Revised will both be applied IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments prospectively to transactions occurring on or after 1st January 2010. was issued in November 2009 and will be implemented by An amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and GSK from 1st January 2011.
The Interpretation addresses the measurement Eligible hedged items was issued in July 2008 accounting by an entity that issues equity instruments in order to and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2010.
The settle a financial liability in part or in full.
amendment clarifies two aspects of hedge accounting relating An amendment to IFRIC 14 Pre-payments of a minimum to hedging with options and the identification of inflation as a funding requirement was issued in November 2009 and will be hedged risk.
implemented by GSK from 1st January 2011.
The amendment An amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum funding requirement Classification of rights issues was issued in October 2009 and will to be recognised as an asset.
be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2011.
The amendment 5 Exchange rates requires an issue to all existing shareholders of rights to acquire additional shares to be recognised in equity, regardless of the The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during currency of the shares.
the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners was published Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of in November 2008 and will be implemented by GSK from those undertakings.
The currencies which most influence these 1st January 2010.
The Interpretation specifies how an entity translations and the relevant exchange rates were: should account for distributions of non-cash assets to its owners.
