Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 99 Notes to the financial statements With an estimated total cost of approximately 4.5 billion, the 1 Presentation of the financial statements expanded programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax Description of business savings of approximately 2.2 billion by the time it is substantially GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is complete in 2012.
Given the extent and cost of the Operational engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture Excellence programme, management believes it has a material and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, impact on GSKs operating results and on the manner in which over-the-counter OTC medicines and health-related consumer GSKs business is conducted.
GSK presents the restructuring costs products.
GSKs principal pharmaceutical products include incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, programme in a separate column in the income statement titled central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, Major restructuring.
anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatalogicals and vaccines.
In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence Compliance with applicable law and IFRS programme, the major restructuring column in the income The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial to, material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted business overlap extensively with GSKs existing operations.
The by the European Union.
restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under the Operational The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued Excellence programme and are also carried out following a detailed by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Management therefore considers it appropriate to Composition of financial statements present the costs of these restructuring activities in the same The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the manner.
The $1.65 billion 814 million acquisition of Reliant functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with Pharmaceuticals in December 2007 and the $3.6 billion IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements comprise: 2.2 billion acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories in July 2009 are the only acquisitions since October 2007 that meet the criteria set Consolidated income statement out above and are the only acquisitions where the costs incurred Consolidated statement of comprehensive income as a direct result of a related restructuring programme have been Consolidated balance sheet included within the major restructuring column.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity The Groups results before the costs of the Operational Excellence Consolidated cash flow statement programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes Notes to the financial statements.
meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a separate column in the income statement and are described as Accounting convention Results before major restructuring.
This presentation, which The financial statements have been prepared using the historical GSK intends to apply consistently to future major restructuring cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items, as programmes that have a material impact on GSKs operating results stated in the accounting policies.
and on the manner in which GSKs business is conducted, has been adopted to show clearly the Groups results both before and Financial period after the costs of these restructuring programmes.
Management These financial statements cover the financial year from 1st January believes that this presentation assists investors in gaining a clearer to 31st December 2009, with comparative figures for the financial understanding of the Groups financial performance and in years from 1st January to 31st December 2008 and, where making projections of future financial performance, as results that appropriate, from 1st January to 31st December 2007. include such costs, by virtue of their size and nature, have limited Composition of the Group comparative value.
This presentation is also consistent with the way A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the management assesses the Groups financial performance.
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 43, Principal Group of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring companies.
programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the Presentation of restructuring costs criteria described above continue to be reported in operating expenses within results before major restructuring.
In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new Operational Excellence restructuring programme.
A second formal plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme, was approved by the Board and announced in February 2009.
A further expansion was approved by the Board and announced in February 2010.
This restructuring programme, comprising these detailed formal plans, covers all areas of GSKs business, including manufacturing, selling, R&D and infrastructure.
