100 Notes to the financial statements 1 Presentation of the financial statements 2 Accounting principles and policies Consolidation continued The consolidated financial statements include: Accounting principles and policies The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the generally accepted accounting principles requires management to company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and and joint ventures.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries.
and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the Information on the application of these accounting policies, entities are accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, has the ability to exercise significant influence, they are accounted Key accounting judgements and estimates.
Where appropriate, for as associates.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates comparative figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial presentation with current year information.
statements using the equity method of accounting.
Implementation of new accounting standards Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from With effect from 1st January 2009, GSK has implemented IFRS 8 the date control ceases.
Operating segments, IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs and minor Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated amendments to a number of other accounting standards.
The and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries implementation of IFRS 8 has resulted in changes to the segmental until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
The information reported by GSK.
Comparative information has been relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures presented on a consistent basis.
Further information is given in and associates is also deferred until the products are sold to third Note 6, Segment information.
Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Parent company financial statements The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in subsidiaries, joint plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK ventures and associates, representing the excess of the acquisition accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented cost over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable on page 179 and the accounting policies are given on page 180. assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation acquired.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 101 Notes to the financial statements Expenditure 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received Foreign currency translation when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are estimated.
Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling the achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are included in the Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income income statement.
Shipment costs on intercompany transfers are charged to cost of sales: distribution costs on sales to customers On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where sheet date.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and average rates of exchange.
well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and Research and development joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences Research and development expenditure is charged to the income arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development Groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset component of equity.
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and market and approval is considered highly probable.
Property, plant cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and equipment used for research and development is depreciated which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, in accordance with the Groups policy.
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Environmental expenditure Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting income statement.
from past or current operations and from which no current or Revenue future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can services are supplied or made available to external customers be reliably estimated.
This liability includes the Groups portion of against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the the total costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible customer, and reliable estimates can be made of relevant parties costs when it is probable that they will not be able to deductions.
Turnover represents net invoice value after the satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
Recoveries deduction of discounts and allowances given and accruals for of reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
estimated future rebates and returns.
The methodology and Legal and other disputes assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected market is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made conditions.
Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and of the likely outcome.
In addition, provision is made for legal or other third-party analyses, market research data and internally other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are respect of product liability claims related to products where there excluded from revenue.
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an incurred Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party but not reported IBNR actuarial technique is used to determine a records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as coreasonable estimate of the Groups exposure to unasserted claims promotion income within turnover.
The nature of co-promotion for those products and a provision is made on that basis.
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
No provision is made for other unasserted claims.
In respect of Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of a number of legal proceedings in which the Group is involved, 439 million 2008 378 million: 2007 274 million.
it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected Royalty income is recognised in other operating income on financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution an accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant of the proceedings.
In these cases, the Group may disclose licensing agreements.
information with respect to the nature and facts of the case but no provision is typically made.
Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
GSK Annual Report 2009 102 Notes to the financial statements Leases 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially Pensions and other post-employment benefits all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations the employees services, consistent with the advice of qualified under finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental is of high quality corporate bonds.
included in the income statement.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement on Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns of assets and the effect of changes Goodwill in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments.
Goodwill is deemed to comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
The Groups have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The costs of other post-employment Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, schemes and spread over the period during which benefit is this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income expected to be derived from the employees services, in accordance statement.
with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Other intangible assets Employee share plans Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under and impairments.
share option and share award schemes.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
exceeding 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company determining the amortisation charge take into account patent shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running of non-exclusivity.
Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Contingent milestone payments are recognised by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves.
A transfer at the point that the contingent event becomes certain.
is made between other reserves and retained earnings over the Any development costs incurred by the Group and associated vesting periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the with acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
are written off to the income statement when incurred, unless Property, plant and equipment the criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at the cost of major market and approval is considered highly probable.
purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and impairment.
Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value qualifying assets in construction.
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over from the rest of the businesses acquired.
Brands are amortised over the expected useful life.
Residual values and lives are reviewed, and their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is where appropriate adjusted, annually.
The normal expected useful considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
lives of the major categories of PP&E are: The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports buildings a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years creation of a durable asset.
ERP systems software is amortised over Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years seven years and other computer software over three to five years.
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 103 Notes to the financial statements Trade receivables 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any Impairment of non-current assets provisions for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where there is The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, impairment when there is an indication that the assets might be previous experience and general economic conditions.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use against any provision available and then to the income statement.
are tested for impairment annually.
Any provision for impairment is Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
credited to the income statement.
Long-term receivables are Impairments of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses discounted where the effect is material.
on other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been Trade payables a change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do Trade payables are held at amortised cost which equates to not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of nominal value.
Long-term payables are discounted where the depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
Investments in associates and joint ventures Cash and cash equivalents Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their net assets with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits with original maturities of three months or less.
They are readily or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
convertible into known amounts of cash and have an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Available-for-sale investments Borrowings Liquid investments and other investments are classified as availablefor-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair redemption being recognised as a charge to the income statement value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the over the period of the relevant borrowing.
asset directly and are charged to the income statement.
Taxation On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted are reclassified to the income statement.
Dividends on equity by the balance sheet date.
investments are recognised in the income statement when the Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on Groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity investments temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on that future taxable profits will be available against which the the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided investments are accounted for on settlement date.
on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the Inventories reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the of cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that and related production overheads and net realisable value.
Cost have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory approval for the product.
Before that point a provision is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount: the provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory approval is determined.
