Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 177 Directors statement of responsibilities Directors statement of responsibilities in Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each relation to the companys financial statements confirmed that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Remuneration Report in accordance s o far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit with applicable law and regulations.
information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards relevant audit information and to establish that the companys United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under auditors are aware of that information.
company law the Directors must not approve the parent company This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for that period.
Going concern basis In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable required to: expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue select suitable accounting policies and then apply in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, them consistently: they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Combined Code state that with regard to the parent company financial The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the Main statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the Financial Reporting Council, as described under Corporate and explained in the financial statements.
governance on pages 54 to 72, and has complied with its provisions except as described on page 71.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the auditors have considered the Directors statement of financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code that the parent company financial statements comply with the which are specified for their review.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Sir Christopher Gent The parent company financial statements for the year ended Chairman 31st December 2009, comprising the balance sheet for the year 24th February 2010 ended 31st December 2009 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 179 to 182 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report page 178.
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2009 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in hard copy printed form and made available on the website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the companys website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
