104 Notes to the financial statements 2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the financial statements, management is required Derivative financial instruments and hedging to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial market risks from treasury operations.
Actual amounts and results could differ from those instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps, estimates.
The following are considered to be the key accounting interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The judgements and estimates made.
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Turnover Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading the customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception as allowances and product returns given or expected to be given, cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
These Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent upon hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the the submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of extent that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are the sale.
Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Amounts deferred in other rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns to be made, comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement based on available market information and historical experience.
when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent flow hedges.
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected market conditions.
Market conditions are Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the research data and internally generated information.
could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to Discounting change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted Taxation to current values using appropriate rates of interest.
The unwinding Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance costs.
deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 105 Notes to the financial statements Other intangible assets 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Where intangible assets are acquired by GSK from third parties continued the costs of acquisition are capitalised.
Licences to compounds Legal and other disputes in development are amortised from the point at which they are GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of available for use, over their estimated useful lives, which may resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate may include periods of non-exclusivity.
Estimated useful lives are be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other reviewed annually and impairment tests are undertaken if events expenses arising from claims against the Group.
occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised independently The companys Directors, having taken legal advice, have where they are separable and have an expected life of more than established provisions after taking into account the relevant one year.
Brands are amortised on a straight-line basis over their facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with estimated useful lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the accounting requirements.
Provisions for product liability claims on end of the useful economic life cannot be foreseen.
Where brands certain products have been made on an incurred but not reported are not amortised, they are subject to annual impairment tests.
basis where sufficient history of claims made and settlements is available.
No provisions have been made for other unasserted Both initial valuations and valuations for subsequent impairment claims.
In respect of a number of legal proceedings in which the tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted Group is involved, it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
These of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate future cash flows are based on business forecasts and are therefore resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, the Group may inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions disclose information with respect to the nature and facts of the used in these impairment reviews to change with a consequent cases but no provision is typically made.
At 31st December 2009 adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to 2,020 million Pensions and other post-employment benefits 2008 1,903 million.
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation with IAS 19 over the period during which benefit is derived from proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The costs are assessed on the basis of The position could change over time and there can, therefore, be assumptions selected by management.
These assumptions no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any include future earnings and pension increases, discount rates, legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions expected long term rates of return on assets and mortality reported in the Groups financial statements.
rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, Pensions and other postemployment benefits.
Property, plant and equipment The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are tested The expected long term rates of return on bonds are determined for impairment when there is an indication that the values of the based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and assets might be impaired.
Impairment is determined by reference corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to this for to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, equities.
measured by assessing risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields using appropriate interest rates.
These future cash flows are based except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
bonds where government bond yields are used.
Sensitivity analysis Future events could cause the assumptions used in these is provided in Note 28, Pensions and other post-employment impairment tests, as set out in Note 17, Property, plant and benefits, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead equipment, to change with a consequent adverse effect to an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately on the future results of the Group.
440 million and an increase in the annual pension cost of Goodwill approximately 7 million.
The selection of different assumptions Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and could affect the future results of the Group.
allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit.
It is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised.
Annual impairment tests of the relevant cash generating units are performed.
Impairment tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
These future cash flows are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment tests, as set out in Note 18, Goodwill, to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
