92 Directors statement of responsibilities the Business review section contained in the Annual Report Directors statement of responsibilities in relation includes a fair review of the development and performance of to the Group financial statements the business and the position of the Group, together with a The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements confirmed that: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with s o far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the information of which the companys auditors are unaware: European Union.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the and Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, as issued by the he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements relevant audit information and to establish that the companys unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the auditors are aware of that information.
state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going concern basis select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Business review on pages 6 to 53 contains information on them consistently: the performance of the Group, its financial position, cash flows, make judgements and accounting estimates that are net debt position and borrowing facilities.
Further information, reasonable and prudent: including Treasury risk management policies, exposures to market state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS and credit risk and hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by financial statements, Financial instruments and related disclosures.
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable explained in the financial statements.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial statements.
financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Internal control Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2009, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, The Combined Code are set out in Financial statements on pages 94 and 176 of The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the Main this Report.
Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council, as described under Corporate The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group financial governance on pages 54 to 72, and has complied with its statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report on provisions except as described on page 71. page 93.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December the auditors have considered the Directors statement of 2009 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code hard-copy printed form and made available on the companys which are specified for their review.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance Annual Report with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2009, of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
the Financial statements and additional information for investors, Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its in the Corporate governance section of the Annual Report 2009 behalf by confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: Sir Christopher Gent the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Chairman accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued 24th February 2010 by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182
