120 Notes to the financial statements 18 Goodwill 2009 2008 m m Cost at 1st January 2,101 1,370 Exchange adjustments 116 437 Additions through business combinations 1,376 294 Cost at 31st December 3,361 2,101 Net book value at 1st January 2,101 1,370 Net book value at 31st December 3,361 2,101 The additions in the year, translated at acquisition exchange rates, arise on acquisition of the following businesses: m Stiefel Laboratories Inc. 885 Pfizer HIV business 255 UCB S. A.
87 NovaMin Technology Inc. 53 AZ Tika 50 Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algrien 35 Others 11 1,376 See Note 38, Acquisitions and disposals for further details.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following businesses: 2009 2008 Cash generating unit m m Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Stiefel Laboratories Inc. 901 Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
US pharmaceuticals 434 485 ID Biomedical Corporation Five pharmaceutical segments 426 404 Sirtris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Five pharmaceutical segments 294 329 Pfizer HIV business ViiV Healthcare group 255 GlaxoSmithKline K. K. Japan pharmaceuticals 208 238 Domantis Limited Five pharmaceutical segments 181 181 CNS, Inc. Consumer Healthcare 137 153 Polfa Poznan S. A. Poland pharmaceuticals 118 128 Certain businesses from UCB S. A.
Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific Japan pharmaceuticals 87 NovaMin Technology Inc. Consumer Healthcare 50 Others 270 183 3,361 2,101 GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 121 Notes to the financial statements 18 Goodwill continued Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units which are tested for impairment at least annually.
Following the implementation of IFRS 8 Operating segments in 2009 the cash generating units to which some of the goodwill balances are allocated have changed.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of ID Biomedical, Sirtris Pharmaceuticals and Domantis has been split between the five pharmaceutical segments USA, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific Japan and Other for impairment testing purposes as either the benefit of the acquired businesses is split among the five pharmaceutical segments or they do not generate independent cash flows.
The valuation of the US pharmaceuticals cash generating unit for Reliant Pharmaceuticals has been prepared on a fair value less costs to sell basis, using turnover and earnings multiples derived from observed market data.
The value of goodwill inherent in the US pharmaceuticals cash generating unit is considerably in excess of the book value of the acquired goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of the other cash generating units are assessed using either a value in use or a fair value less costs to sell model.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated.
Initially a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate the net present value of the post-tax cash flows.
The post-tax discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 8%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across large parts of the Group.
The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11%.
The discount rate is increased where specific country risks are sufficiently significant to have a material impact on the outcome of the impairment test.
Where the impairment test indicates that the recoverable value of the unit is close to or below its carrying value, the test is reperformed using a pre-tax discount rate and pre-tax cash flows in order to determine if an impairment exists and to establish its magnitude.
Fair value is calculated using a similar discounted cash flow approach based on the Groups acquisition valuation model.
A post-tax discount rate is applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the other significant goodwill balances are as follows: Stiefel Laboratories CGU ViiV Healthcare CGU Five pharmaceutical segments CGUs Valuation basis Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell Value in use Key assumptions Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Profit margins Profit margins Profit margins Achievement of synergy targets Discount rate Discount rate Discount rate Determination of Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal forecasts assumptions forecasts based on both internal forecasts based on both internal based on both internal and and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, Margins reflect past experience, Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Post-acquisition synergy targets Discount rate based on Group Discount rate based on Group reflect management expectations WACC.
of cost savings that can be achieved.
Discount rate based on Group WACC.
Period of specific 10 years 20 years 5 years projected cash flows Discount rate 8% 8% 8% Terminal growth rate 2% p. a.
2% p. a. GSK Annual Report 2009 122 Notes to the financial statements 18 Goodwill continued Japan Pharmaceuticals CGU Consumer Healthcare CGU Poland Pharmaceuticals CGU for GlaxoSmithKline KK for CNS for Polfa Poznan Valuation basis Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell Value in use Key assumptions Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Profit margins Advertising and promotion Profit margins Discount rate investment Discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate Determination of Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal assumptions forecasts based on both internal forecasts based on both internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, Advertising and promotion Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
investment based on historical adjusted for expected changes.
Discount rate based on Group levels adjusted for managements Discount rate based on Group WACC.
view of support needed for WACC, adjusted for countryinnovation and expansion.
Terminal growth rate based on managements estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Period of specific 5 years 4 years 5 years projected cash flows Discount rate 8% 8% 9.75% Terminal growth rate 2% p. a.
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets.
The terminal growth rate used in the value in use calculation for the Poland Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit reflects the impact of future generic competition and takes no account of new product launches.
The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of 1,796 million 2008 1,794 million.
The Stiefel Laboratories cash generating unit also comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite lives with a carrying value of 660 million.
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 Other intangible assets.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182
