202 Taxation information for shareholders A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect consequences for certain holders of shares and ADR who are of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as capital assets, citizens of the UK or the USA is set out below.
It is not a complete is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold analysis of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase or shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is ownership of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
The summary Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax also does not address the tax treatment of holders that are subject consequences of the purchase and ownership of their shares or ADR, to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the USA and companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold the implications of the current UK US Income Tax convention.
shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR and one or more other US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% or underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA UK double more of the voting stock of GSK.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention Taxation of dividends and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source amended the Code.
dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR UK shareholders are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the shares as capital assets.
US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain Taxation of dividends exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible UK resident individual shareholders will generally be subject to UK US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% income tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for in respect of qualified dividends received before 2011. the amount of a one ninth dividend tax credit.
The tax credit may be set against the individuals income tax liability in respect of the Taxation of capital gains gross dividend, but is not repayable to shareholders with a tax Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, liability of less than the associated tax credit.
For the tax year but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale 2010-11 and subsequent tax years, an additional rate of income or other disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term tax on dividends will be imposed for taxpayers whose income is capital gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual above 150,000.
UK resident shareholders that are corporation holders if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
taxpayers should note that dividends paid after 1st July 2009 are Information reporting and backup withholding generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax under new rules.
If shareholders are in any doubt as to their position, they Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or should consult their own professional advisers.
ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be Taxation of capital gains subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification of shares or ADR.
For disposals by individuals, a capital gain number and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Nonwill be taxed at a flat rate of 18%, subject to the availability US holders generally are not subject to information reporting or of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt amount.
backup withholding, but may be required to provide a certification Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance of their non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against gains arise due to inflation.
Indexation allowance may reduce a a holders US federal income tax liability provided the required chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
information is furnished to the IRS.
Inheritance tax Estate and gift taxes Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be charged on the amount by generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
which the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result Stamp duty of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value.
UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK inheritance depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, the amount tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention of any consideration provided if transferred on sale, or their value would generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited if transferred for no consideration.
against tax payable in the UK.
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK Stamp duty stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to that any instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR of 0.5% of the purchase price.
would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the underlying shares would, subject to certain US shareholders exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may This summary only applies to a shareholder a citizen or resident of be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is otherwise GSK Annual Report 2009 Shareholder information P183204
