Go online and discover the world of GSK.
GSK is changing A year in numbers We have chosen twelve case studies from 2009 that demonstrate our progress against Dear Shareholder our strategic priorities and show how GSK I am pleased to report that GSK has made significant progress 28.4bn 3% is changing.
Each of these stories can be to transform its business model and we are confident that the Turnover CER growth companys long-term prospects are improving.
viewed online at: We are focused on delivering three strategic priorities to www.
com annualreport deliver more growth, reduce risk and improve the long-term financial performance on a sustainable basis for shareholders.
121.2p 2% To be a successful and sustainable business we must also fulfil our social responsibilities.
We are doing this by making our EPS before major CER growth company more responsible, more flexible and more open.
restructuring Strategic priorities Gr ow a diversified global business We are diversifying our business to create a more balanced product portfolio and move away from a reliance on traditional white pill western markets.
We are investing in key growth areas 61p 7% such as Emerging Markets, Japan, Vaccines and our Dividend per share CER growth Consumer Healthcare business.
Deliver more products of value We aim to sustain an industry-leading pipeline of products, ensuring that they demonstrate value for healthcare providers.
Our R&D strategy is built around focussing on the best science, 12 c. 30 diversifying through externalisation of research, and improving the returns on investment.
Products launched Products in late in 2009 stage development Simplify the operating model GSK is a large and complex organisation.
We are transforming our operating model to reduce complexities, improve efficiency and CER: Constant Exchange Rate growth reduce costs.
EPS: Earnings per share The world of GSK www.
com annualreport To demonstrate the progress we are making against these Share price priorities and the further measures we have taken to operate US$ with responsibility and integrity, we have created the world of 15 60 GSK, a website that contains stories from around the globe.
14 55 I hope you find them interesting and helpful in explaining the changes we are making at GSK.
