Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 169 Notes to the financial statements In January 2009, Neolab filed an action to invalidate the 44 Legal proceedings combination patent in the Federal Court of Germany.
Revocation The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative actions against the combination patent in Germany have also been proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, filed by Mylan Dura GmbH March 2008, Hexal AG December tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related 2008 and Ivax October 2009.
The four revocation actions private litigation.
The Group makes provision for these proceedings were heard together on 23rd February 2010.
The court advised on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, Accounting principles the parties that a decision will be issued within a few weeks and policies and Note 29, Other provisions.
In respect of a following the hearing.
The basic patent covering the combination number of legal proceedings in which the Group is involved, it product in Seretide expires in September 2010 but is subject to a is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected Supplementary Protection Certificate, which extends protection financial effect, if any that will result from ultimate resolution until September 2013. of the proceedings.
In these cases, the Group may disclose information with respect to the nature and facts of the cases but In July 2009, Sandoz and Hexal initiated a revocation action no provision is typically made.
Intellectual property claims include in the District Court of The Hague against the Groups Dutch challenges to the validity and enforceability of the Groups patents combination patent relating to Seretide.
The hearing, originally on various products or processes as well as assertions of nonscheduled for 19th February 2010, has been rescheduled for infringement of those patents.
A loss in any of these cases could 26th November 2010.
The basic patent covering the combination result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue.
The product in Seretide expires in September 2010 but is subject to a consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease in Supplementary Protection Certificate, which extends protection sales of that product and could materially affect future results of until September 2013. operations for the Group.
A revocation action against the basic patent covering the Seretide Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are combination in Ireland was filed in the High Court in Dublin on charged to selling, general and administration costs.
Provisions are behalf of Ivax in July 2008.
The trial took place from 24th March to made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, 12th May 2009.
The High Court handed down a decision on when a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of 26th June 2009 finding the patent invalid for obviousness.
The Group has established an actuarially determined decision related solely to the Irish combination patent for Seretide provision for product liability claims incurred, but not yet reported and is not binding in any other decision.
The Group filed an appeal as described in Note 29, Other provisions.
At 31st December of this decision in October 2009.
No trial date has been set for 2009, the Groups aggregate provision for legal and other disputes the appeal.
not including tax matters described in Note 14, Taxation was An action for revocation of the French Seretide combination 2.0 billion.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from patent was filed by Sandoz with the Tribunal fide Grande Instance the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of of Paris on 5th October 2009.
No trial date has yet been set.
The litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement basic patent covering the combination product in Seretide expires negotiations.
The Groups position could change over time, and in September 2010 but is subject to a Supplementary Protection there can, therefore, be no assurance that any losses that result Certificate, which extends protection until September 2013. from the outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial accounts Argatroban by a material amount.
If this were to happen, it could have a In December 2007, Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mitsubishi Kasei material adverse impact on the results of operation of the Group in Corporation and the Group filed an action in the US District Court the reporting period in which the judgements are incurred or the for the Southern District of New York against Barr Laboratories, settlements entered into.
The most significant of those matters are Inc. for infringement of Mitsubishis pharmaceutical composition described below.
Pursuant to a license from Mitsubishi, Encysive has developed Argatroban for the treatment of heparinIntellectual property induced thrombocytopenia and holds the New Drug Application Advair Seretide approved by the US FDA.
Encysive has licensed the US marketing In October 2007, the Group filed a complaint with the Patent rights to Argatroban to the Group.
The Mitsubishi patent Dispute Chamber of the Regional Court in Dsseldorf, Germany expires in June 2014.
Barr had filed an Abbreviated New Drug against Neolab UK for infringement of its German patent Application ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity, claiming compositions containing the combination of salmeterol unenforceability and non-infringement of the Mitsubishi patent.
and fluticasone propionate used in Seretide known as Viani in A two-week trial in the case was held in January 2010, and the Germany.
The complaint was based on Neolabs stated intention parties are awaiting a decision.
FDA approval of that ANDA is by letter to market a salmeterol fluticasone combination product stayed until the earlier of May 2010 or resolution of the patent in Germany in 2008 which event did not occur.
A trial took place infringement action.
in the Patent Dispute Chamber of the Regional Court in Dsseldorf in January 2009 which resulted in a permanent injunction against Neolab.
Neolab has appealed and the appeal hearing has been scheduled for 8th July 2010.
GSK Annual Report 2009 170 Notes to the financial statements Combivir 44 Legal proceedings continued Patents listed in the Orange Book for Combivir include composition Arzerra of matter 3TC lamivudine, combination lamivudine and AZT In October 2009, the Group filed an action in the US District Court and lamivudine crystal form patents that expire in 2010, 2012 for the Southern District of Florida for a declaration that U. S. Patent and 2016, respectively.
In September 2007, the Group received 6,331,415 the so-called Cabilly II patent, which is owned jointly notice that Teva filed an ANDA with the FDA alleging that the by Genentech, Inc. and City of Hope, is invalid, unenforceable, combination patent is invalid.
or not infringed by GSKs product Arzerra ofatumumab.
Arzerra In November 2007, the Group filed an action in the District Court was approved by the FDA for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia an for the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. orphan indication in October 2009.
In February 2010, the Group for infringement of the combination patent.
FDA approval of Tevas voluntarily dismissed the case and filed a new case in the US ANDA is stayed until the earlier of March 2010 or resolution of the District Court for the Northern District of California, where the patent infringement action favourable to Teva.
The case is in the suit is currently pending.
In October 2008, Teva filed a certification that the Avodart Groups patent covering the crystal form of lamivudine is invalid or In January 2008, the Group received notice that Barr Laboratories not infringed.
The Group did not file suit under this patent.
filed an ANDA with the FDA with an allegation of invalidity of In July 2008, the Group received notice that Lupin Ltd. filed a the three patents listed in the Orange Book which cover the certification with the FDA alleging that the combination patent is active ingredient in Avodart, and its use to treat benign prostatic invalid or not infringed by its product.
Lupin also filed a certification hyperplasia BPH.
In February 2008, the Group filed an action in that the Groups patent covering the crystal form of lamivudine is the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Barr for invalid or not infringed.
The basic compound patent expires in 2015.
The other two patents expire in 2013.
FDA approval of In August 2008, the Group filed suit against Lupin in the Barrs ANDA is stayed until the earlier of July 2010, or resolution of District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of its the patent infringement action.
The parties have agreed to settle combination patent.
The Group did not file suit against Lupin this matter.
The terms of the settlement are subject to review by the under the crystal form patent.
In March, 2009, the action against Federal Trade Commission and must receive final court approval.
Lupin was stayed by mutual consent pending resolution of the case against Teva.
Neither Teva nor Lupin has challenged the Benlysta basic compound patent that covers lamivudine, one of the active In February 2010 the UK Court of Appeal upheld an earlier High ingredients in Combivir.
That patent expires in May 2010.
Court decision revoking the HGS UK patent EP0939804.
The claim for revocation was brought by Eli Lilly in 2006 on the patent Coreg CR which claims the cytokine BLyS and any antibody that binds to The Group filed suit in April 2008 in the US District Court for the BLyS, such as Benlysta belimumab.
GSK has a licence to this Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the crystal form patent and patent but was not a party to these litigation proceedings.
The a patent covering the use of Coreg CR treating congestive heart equivalent European patent was upheld in October 2009 on a final failure.
In October 2008, the Group filed a motion to dismiss the appeal from the European Patent Office following an opposition action and gave Mutual a covenant not to sue under the patents.
proceeding filed by Eli Lilly.
This UK decision does not affect the Mutual cannot obtain final approval to market its generic product other European patents arising from this same European Patent.
until 20th April 2010 based upon data exclusivity granted by the HGS and GSK are considering an appeal of this UK decision to the FDA for the product.
This matter has now concluded.
This decision does not affect GSK or HGSs Hiberix, Infanrix Hexa and Menitorix freedom to market and sell Benlysta.
On 3rd August 2009, Novartis sued the Group in Belgium for Boniva patent infringement in relation to Hiberix, Infanrix Hexa, and The Group participated in the marketing of Boniva pursuant to a Menitorix vaccine products and in relation to phase 3 development co-promotion agreement with Roche, which expired in January vaccine projects HibMenCY and MenACWY.
In September 2007, Roche Laboratories commenced proceedings were also filed by Novartis in the UK for Infanrix Hexa, actions in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey Menitorix and Hiberix.
The European Patent Office granted the against eight generic drug manufacturers.
In each case, Roche Groups request for an accelerated review to reconsider the validity alleged infringement of Roche patents relating to Boniva tablets.
of the patent and in December 2009, all Novartis claims relevant Each of the defendants had filed an ANDA with the FDA with a to the Groups products were held invalid.
The UK and Belgian certification of invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement infringement trials will be dismissed.
of at least one of the Roche patents.
Two manufacturers have Levitra challenged the basic compound patent, which expires in 2012.
The Group participates in the marketing of Levitra pursuant to a Final FDA approval of those ANDAs is stayed until the earlier of co-promotion agreement with Bayer Healthcare.
In July 2009, Bayer November 2010 or resolution of the relevant patent infringement brought suit against Teva in the US District Court for the District action.
In August 2008, Roche obtained a new patent on the of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of monthly dosing regimen for Boniva and brought suit against all its patent relating to Levitra.
Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA ANDA filers that were challenging its patents.
The new patent with a certification that the patent covering the active ingredient expires in 2023.
in Levitra, which expires in 2018, is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
A stay against FDA approval will be in effect until the earlier of a decision in the case adverse to Bayer or November 2011.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 171 Notes to the financial statements Treximet 44 Legal proceedings continued Lovaza In October 2008, the Group received a letter from Par Pharmaceuticals that the FDA had accepted its ANDA for Treximet, In March 2009, the Group received notice that Teva which included a certification that patents owned by Pozen, Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. and Apotex Inc. relating to Treximet were invalid, unenforceable and or not Inc. had filed ANDAs with a certification that two patents covering infringed.
Pozens patents are licensed to the Group.
In November Lovaza are invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.
The patents 2008, Pozen filed suit against Par under three of its patents in the expire in 2013 and 2017.
The Group is the licensee under these District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Pronova Biopharma Norge AS, the owner of the patents, the Group received a letter from Alphapharm and its designated sued Teva, Par and Apotex in the US District Court for the District agent, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, that the FDA had accepted its of Delaware.
FDA approval of the ANDAs will be stayed until the ANDA for Treximet, which included a certification that Pozens earlier of May 2012 or a decision favourable to one of the generics.
patents relating to Treximet were invalid, unenforceable and or not Malarone infringed.
Pozen filed suit against Alphapharm and Mylan in January In August 2009 the Group filed suit in the US District Court for 2009 for infringement of its patents in the District Court for the the District of Delaware against Glenmark Generics Inc. USA Eastern District of Texas and Delaware.
The Delaware case has since for infringement of its patents related to Malarone.
In 2009, Pozen also sued Teva Pharmaceuticals had received notification that Glenmark had filed an ANDA for USA, Inc. and Dr. Reddys under the same patents in the same court.
Malarone, with certification alleging that the Groups patents Treximet has data exclusivity that precludes approval of a generic were invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.
These patents, product until April 2011.
The Group is not a party to any of the which expire in 2014, cover the combination of atovaquone and lawsuits brought by Pozen.
proguanil hydrochloride and its use for preventing malaria.
FDA Valtrex approval of Glenmarks ANDA is stayed until the earlier of January In July 2009, Apotex Inc. filed a complaint for a declaratory 2012 or a judgment adverse to GSK.
judgment in the District Court for the Middle District of North Paxil Seroxat Carolina that Apotexs valacyclovir product did not infringe a In the USA a number of manufacturers or distributors of generic formulation patent owned by the Group for Valtrex.
Apotex filed Paxil filed applications with the FDA to market their generic versions a para iv certification in 2008 challenging this patent and GSK did prior to the expiration in 2007 of the Groups patent on paroxetine not file suit challenging the certificate.
GSK filed a response to hyrdrochloride hemihydrate.
Of these actions, only one remains this declaratory judgment complaint in August 2009 and did not pending, namely an action against Apotex in the US District Court contest the non-infringement allegation.
In October 2009, Apotex for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on patents with composition filed a motion for judgment.
The matter is pending a decision on of matter and process of manufacture claims.
In November 2009, Ranbaxy launched the first generic counterclaim has been asserted by Apotex, as discussed under product for valacyclovir.
The case has now been set for trial in Vesicare April 2010.
The Group markets Vesicare under license from Astellas In Europe, generic products containing paroxetine hydrochloride Pharma Inc.
In September 2009, Astellas filed suit against Teva are now on the market in most European countries.
The Groups Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. in the Federal District Court for the Netherlands patent infringement action against Farmaceutisch Southern District of New York for infringement of its patent Analytisch Laboratorium Duiven B. V. FAL, and FALs counterclaims covering the active ingredient in Vesicare.
Astellas had received for unfair competition, was settled in July 2009. notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals had filed an ANDA with a certification that the basic patent, which expires in 2018, was Following the litigation in Canada with Apotex over several invalid or unenforceable.
FDA approval of Tevas ANDA is stayed patents related to paroxetine, Apotex launched its generic product until the earlier of February 2012 or a decision in the case in Canada in October 2003.
Apotex has now alleged that as a favourable to Teva.
result of that litigation it had been enjoined from launching that product after receipt of regulatory approval.
An action by Apotex to recover damages related to the delay occasioned by those Product liability injunctions is ongoing.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of Requip XL products for use by humans following approval by regulatory In January 2009, the Group received letters from Impax bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis South Atlantic LLC indicating that are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues their ANDAs for Requip XL had been accepted by the FDA.
The Group is currently a defendant in letters included an allegation that the patent licensed by the Group a number of product liability lawsuits related to the Groups from SkyePharma covering the extended release formulation was pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products.
The most not infringed by their products.
Additional ANDAs were filed in significant of those matters are described on pages 172 and 173.
2009 by Torrent Pharmaceuticals and Lupin Ltd. with certifications that the formulation patent was not infringed.
The Group did not bring suits against these companies.
GSK Annual Report 2009 172 Notes to the financial statements In the claims and lawsuits alleging that treatment with Paxil has 44 Legal proceedings continued caused homicidal or suicidal behaviour exhibited by users of Avandia the product, class certification was denied in January 2007 in The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf a purported personal injury class action lawsuit.
Cases remain of individuals and purported class action cases asserting consumer pending in federal and state courts.
The cases filed in Philadelphia fraud and or personal injury claims on behalf of purchasers and have been coordinated in the Mass Tort Program.
The federal cases are part of a multi-district With respect to the lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern the USA and Canada alleging that Paxil is addictive and causes District of Pennsylvania.
Cases have also been filed in state courts.
dependency and withdrawal reactions, virtually all the US actions Cases filed in Philadelphia have been coordinated in the Mass Tort have now been resolved.
A California court granted plaintiffs Program.
These matters are in the discovery phase, with the first trial motion to certify a class in a consumer fraud lawsuit seeking only scheduled for June 2010.
Additionally, a purported nationwide class economic damages, focused on discontinuation symptoms.
In action suit was filed in February 2009 in the US District Court for the Canada, the Quebec court denied plaintiffs motion to certify a class Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of all third party payers of patients who allegedly experienced discontinuation symptoms.
seeking economic damages under various state unfair trade practices That decision is on appeal.
In the UK, public funding has been and consumer protection laws.
Plaintiffs have indicated that they will granted for hundreds of patients to pursue common issues in be filing an amended complaint in the future.
litigation alleging that paroxetine has caused them to suffer from Finally, one purported class action has been filed in Israel, and withdrawal reactions and dependency.
The trial is scheduled to briefing of whether to certify the class action is underway.
Ten class commence in January 2011. actions are pending in Canada, and are at an early stage.
Poligrip Baycol A number of product liability lawsuits and claims have been filed The Group and Bayer Corporation, the principal US subsidiary against the Group in both state and federal courts in the USA, of Bayer AG, have signed an allocation agreement under which including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in Poligrip Bayer Corporation has agreed to pay 95% of all settlements and causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic injury.
The compensatory damages judgments, with each party retaining first lawsuit alleging neurologic injuries from zinc in Poligrip was responsibility for its own attorneys fees and any punitive damages.
The federal cases are part of the Denture The federal cases have been consolidated in a multi-district litigation Cream Adhesive multi-district litigation in the US District Court proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Minnesota.
for the Southern District of Florida which was established in June The multi-district litigation is in the process of winding down, with 2009.
Both the Group and Procter & Gamble are defendants in this less than 10 plaintiffs remaining.
To date two statewide class actions litigation.
Included in the MDL are purported class actions asserting have been certified a medical monitoring case in Pennsylvania economic loss claims under state consumer protection laws and and a Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act case claims for medical monitoring.
With one exception a state court in Illinois.
The medical monitoring action was dismissed by the case in Arkansas, all of the state court cases have been consolidated court on summary judgment, and the Supreme Court of Illinois in the Mass Tort Program in Philadelphia.
A purported class action likewise dismissed the consumer fraud claim on summary judgment asserting consumer fraud claims was recently filed in Canada.
A nationwide class of third-party payors was 18th February 2010, the Group announced that it was voluntarily certified by a Pennsylvania state court.
That case settled before withdrawing all zinc-containing formulations of Poligrip.
Another class action, in which the Group was not named as Thimerosal a defendant, had been certified in Oklahoma.
That case has been The Group, along with a number of other pharmaceutical decertified, and the deadline for appealing the decertification order companies, has been named as a defendant in numerous individual has passed.
More than 3,100 claims for death or serious injury have personal injury lawsuits in state and federal district courts in been settled and thousands of others alleging muscle aches and the USA alleging that thimerosal, a preservative used in the pains have been voluntarily or involuntarily dismissed.
manufacture of vaccines, causes neurodevelopmental disorders Paxil and Paxil CR and other injuries, including autism.
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging Two of the cases are purported class actions, although there that use of Paxil paroxetine has caused a variety of injuries.
has been no determination whether any of those cases will be Many of these lawsuits and claims allege that the use of Paxil permitted to proceed as a class action.
A number of purported during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth defects class actions in other jurisdictions have been withdrawn or or health issues.
Other lawsuits and claims allege that patients dismissed.
Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory, punitive who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide and and statutory damages as well as the cost of a fund for medical or acts of violence.
Finally, a third group of lawsuits and claims monitoring and research.
allege that the use of Paxil caused patients to suffer symptoms on discontinuing treatment with Paxil.
As of the date of this report, in the limited number of cases that have approached trial dates, vaccine manufacturers and The cases filed in Philadelphia alleging injury during pregnancy manufacturers of other thimerosal containing medicinal products have been coordinated in the Philadelphia Mass Tort Program.
In have been successful in excluding testimony of plaintiffs expert October 2009, the first trial resulted in an adverse jury verdict in witnesses on causation, specifically on grounds that plaintiffs have the amount of $2.5 million Kilker v. GlaxoSmithKline.
No punitive failed to establish that the hypothesised link between thimerosal damages were awarded.
The Group and neurodevelopmental disorders is generally accepted as reliable also has purported class action litigation in Canada concerning use within the relevant scientific community.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 173 Notes to the financial statements Average wholesale price 44 Legal proceedings continued The United States Department of Justice, a number of states and Additionally, in February 2009, the Office of Special Masters of putative classes of private payers have for several years now been the United States Court of Federal Claims rejected the first three investigating and or bringing civil litigation regarding allegations of approximately 4,900 autism claims filed under the National that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including GSK, have Vaccine Injury Compensation Program NVICP on the grounds that violated federal or state fraud and abuse laws as a result of the claimants failed to produce reliable scientific evidence linking their way average wholesale price AWP and wholesale acquisition vaccinations to their medical conditions, including autism.
cost WAC have been determined and reported for various drugs The Group was not a party to these proceedings.
The findings from reimbursed under the Medicare, Medicaid and other insurance them cannot be used as evidence in the pending lawsuits against programmes.
In 2005 the Group reached a $149 million civil the Group.
All three decisions were upheld on appeal by the United settlement with the federal government to resolve allegations States Court of Federal Claims.
Two of the three NVICP claimants relating to the pricing and marketing of Zofran and Kytril.
The now have appealed the rulings to the US Court of Appeals for the Group also amended its existing corporate integrity agreement Federal Circuit.
The third claimant has elected not to appeal further as a requirement of the settlement.
In 2007, the Group received and has rejected the decision from the NVICP.
This claimant now final approval of a $70 million nationwide private payer class has the option of filing an action either against the Group and or action settlement relating to the Groups price reporting in an MDL the physician who administered the vaccine in question.
As of this proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
date, no such action has been commenced.
A number of states, through their respective attorneys general, The remaining approximately 4,900 NVICP claimants also will and most of the counties in New York State have filed civil ultimately have the option of pursuing personal injury lawsuits lawsuits in state and federal courts against GSK and many against the vaccine manufacturers, including the Group.
It is too other drug companies claiming damages and restitution due to early to determine whether the announcement of the NVCIP AWP and or WAC price reporting for pharmaceutical products decisions is likely to lead to an increase in the number of civil cases covered by the states Medicaid programmes.
The states seek filed against the Group.
As of the date of this report, there are no recovery on behalf of the states as payers and, in some cases, cases scheduled for trial in 2010 in which the Group is a defendant.
on behalf of in-state patients as consumers.
The Group has separately resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid Sales and marketing and regulation programmes in more than two-thirds of the states through the Marketing and promotion DOJ Settlement or separate negotiations.
Litigation concerning In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the US AWP issues is continuing with eight states, as well as with New Attorneys office in Colorado regarding the Groups sales and York counties.
In July 2008, an Alabama state court jury returned promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling products, an $81 million verdict against the Group in one such case filed for the period from January 1997 to 2004.
In particular, the by the State of Alabama.
In October 2009 the Alabama Supreme government has inquired about alleged promotion of these drugs Court reversed the jury verdict and rendered judgment in GSKs for off-label uses, as well as Group-sponsored continuing medical favour.
The court expressly found that GSK had not defrauded the education programmes, other speaker events, special issue boards, Alabama Medicaid programme.
In January 2010 the Alabama advisory boards, speaker training programmes, clinical studies Supreme Court declined Alabamas petition for reconsideration of and related grants, fees, travel and entertainment.
original subpoena was issued from the US Attorneys office in In November 2009 a Kentucky state court jury returned a Colorado, the scope of the inquiry is nationwide.
$661,860 compensatory damages only verdict against the Group The government is also inquiring about the Groups response to in another such case filed by the State of Kentucky.
The jury found an October 2002 letter from the FDAs Division of Drug Marketing, the Group liable for violating the states consumer protection laws, Advertising and Communication requesting information on the but not liable under the states Medicaid fraud and false advertising Groups alleged promotion of Wellbutrin SR for off-label use.
In January 2010 the judge in the case awarded the State Group is co-operating with the investigation and providing the of Kentucky an additional $5,828,000 in statutory penalties.
Group is considering whether to appeal.
Following a United Nations report alleging that bribes had been Nominal pricing paid to Iraqi government officials in connection with the UN Oil The Group responded to two letter requests from the US Senate for Food Programme, the Group received a subpoena from the Committee on Finance, dated April 2004 and February 2005, for SEC in February 2006 in respect of the Groups participation in documents and information relating to the nominal price exception that programme.
The US Department of Justice also initiated an to the best price reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug investigation.
In December 2007, the UK Serious Fraud Office Rebate Programme.
In January 2007, the committee released its issued a formal notice to the Group requiring production of findings that some pharmaceutical manufacturers inappropriately documents related to the Groups participation in the programme.
used the nominal price exception contrary to the committees The Group is co-operating with the investigations and has provided interpretation of Congressional intent.
In May 2004, the Group documents responsive to the subpoena and the notice, and was advised by the US Department of Justice that it is investigating continues to respond to follow up questions and requests.
certain of the Groups nominal pricing and bundled sales arrangements to determine whether those arrangements qualify under the exception to the best price reporting requirements or violate civil statutes or laws.
GSK Annual Report 2009 174 Notes to the financial statements Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site 44 Legal proceedings continued In October 2007 the Group announced plans to cease In March 2008, the Group received a broad letter request from the operations at its manufacturing facilities located in Cidra, US Department of Justice seeking a range of documents relating Puerto Rico.
On 30th July 2009: the Cidra site ceased operations to all of the Groups nominal pricing arrangements since 1994 and and commenced decommissioning activities.
The remaining any possible bundled sales.
The Group is continuing to co-operate operational staffs were released on 30th September 2009. in the investigation and produce documents.
The Group has also On 6th October 2009, the US District Court for the Eastern received subpoenas and requests for documents and information District of North Carolina entered an order vacating the Consent from Delaware and Michigan related to the Groups nominal price Decree to which the Group and the FDA agreed regarding the arrangements.
The Group is cooperating in those investigations Groups manufacturing operations at the site.
The Group has and producing responsive documents.
In addition to these completed decommissioning activities and is currently pursuing governmental investigations, allegations concerning the nominal opportunities to sell the site to a third party.
pricing have been made by certain government payers as part of the AWP litigation.
The Group has not entered into any nominal In October 2003, the US federal government executed a search price arrangements since December 2003. warrant at the Cidra facility and seized records relating to the manufacturing operations at the site.
340B Programme In April 2005, the Group received a subpoena from the US The Group is defending an action filed in federal court in the Attorneys Office in Boston requesting production of records US District Court for the Northern District of California by the regarding manufacturing at the Cidra site, covering information County of Santa Clara and one other county, which seeks to that is similar to that seized by the US government in Puerto represent a putative class of hospitals, clinics and other entities Rico in 2003.
Subsequently, the Group received additional in California that are eligible to receive discounted ceiling subpoenas from the government related to the Cidra facility.
prices on pharmaceuticals under a federal programme known The Group is co-operating with the US Attorneys Office and as the 340B Programme.
Plaintiffs allege that the Group and producing the records responsive to the subpoenas.
In addition, numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers have been in July 2007, the Group learned that the US District Court for setting ceiling prices higher than allowed by law and, under the District of Massachusetts had unsealed a complaint brought the contract that governs the programme, and have therefore by a former employee under the federal False Claims Act overcharged the entities in California that are eligible to claiming monetary damages as a result of the alleged failure participate in the 340B Programme.
The lawsuit was dismissed of the Cidra facility to comply with FDA Good Manufacturing in 2006.
It was reinstated in August 2008 following an appeal.
Processes GMPs in the manufacture of various products.
It is now being actively litigated at the trial court level.
Part of plaintiffs claim is that the defendants miscalculated Average The Group is also named in two purported consumer fraud class Manufacturer Prices AMPs and Best Prices BPs under the action lawsuits one filed in California state court and the other Medicaid rebate program which, because they form part of in the US District Court for the District of Puerto Rico alleging the ceiling price formula, resulted in inflated ceiling prices.
that Paxil products were not manufactured according to GMP.
Defendants have asserted, and continue to assert, that these Plaintiffs sought economic, statutory and punitive damages, plaintiffs are not entitled to challenge the calculation of AMPs along with a request for injunctive relief.
In the summer of and BPs as part of this lawsuit.
2008, the Group reached a tentative agreement to settle these matters.
The settlement covers nationwide classes of consumer Paxil Seroxat purchasers and third party payers.
It provides a claims procedure Following the Groups 2004 settlement of a lawsuit filed by for class members to receive payment only for split defective the New York State Attorney Generals office alleging failure to Paxil CR tablets.
The settlement received final trial court approval disclose data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents, in September 2009.
Objectors to the settlement filed appeals, similar cases, some of which purported to be class actions, but the appeals were dismissed in February 2010.
Accordingly, were filed by private plaintiffs seeking to recover amounts paid the settlement has become final and effective in accordance for Paxil purchased for use by patients under the age of 18. with its terms.
Under the settlement agreement, the consumer Following a class settlement with consumers in 2007, the US fraud class action lawsuits will be dismissed with prejudice.
The District Court for the District of Minnesota in 2008 approved related third party payer suit filed in the Philadelphia Court of a $40 million class settlement of ensuing lawsuits seeking Common Pleas was marked as settled, discontinued and ended recovery on behalf of insurance companies and other third-party as of 5th October 2009. payers for payments for prescriptions of Paxil to children and adolescents.
The Group denied liability in both settlements.
In 2009, a similar purported class action was filed in US District Court for the District of Minnesota on behalf of all federal, state and local government entities that paid for prescriptions of Paxil to minors.
There also remains a similar purported class action in Canada seeking economic damages on behalf of individuals, third party payers and governmental entities that purchased Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 175 Notes to the financial statements 44 Legal proceedings continued Secondary wholesaler In July 2006, RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. a secondary wholesaler, Anti-trust filed suit against the Group and many other pharmaceutical Paxil Seroxat manufacturers and wholesalers in the US District Court for The trial date for the remaining patent infringement the Eastern District of New York.
The complaint alleges that action brought by the Group against Apotex and Apotexs the defendants engaged in a conspiracy to refuse to supply counterclaim remains set for 15th April 2010 in the US District pharmaceutical products to RxUSA in violation of federal Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
In this matter, and state anti-trust laws.
The Groups motion to dismiss the the Group seeks substantial damages for Apotexs alleged complaint was granted.
The plaintiff has filed an appeal.
infringement of one of the Groups patents on paroxetine Wellbutrin XL hydrochloride, and Apotex in turn seeks damages from the In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits, Group in an amount substantially larger than the damages several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in sought by the Group, for alleged violations of federal anti-trust the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania laws, as well as those involving advertising and state anti-trust against the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers and consumer protection laws.
Under the federal anti-trust of Wellbutrin SR.
The complaints allege violations of US antilaws, the damages sought by Apotex would be trebled in the trust laws through sham litigation and fraud on the patent event of an adverse jury verdict against the Group.
On office by the Group in obtaining and enforcing patents covering 2nd December 2009, the Court ordered that the Group and Wellbutrin SR.
The complaints followed the introduction of Apotex engage in mediation to attempt to reach settlement on generic competition to Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district the patent infringement claim and the counterclaim.
and appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer did not EU sector inquiry infringe the Groups patents.
While a class of direct purchasers In January 2008, the European Commission announced an inquiry has been certified, no decision has yet been made by the into certain aspects of competition in the pharmaceutical sector Court with regard to certification of an indirect purchaser class.
and initiated inspections at the premises of a number of innovator Discovery has been substantially completed and the Groups and generic pharmaceutical companies, including the Group.
motion for summary judgment remains pending.
The Commission published a preliminary report in November Flonase 2008 based on information provided to it by innovator and generic Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions have pharmaceutical companies.
The report suggests that defensive been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of patenting strategies may lead to obstacles to innovation and that Pennsylvania alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly innovator companies employ measures to hinder generics coming power in the market for Flonase and charged plaintiffs supraonto the market.
The final report was issued in July 2009.
Additionally, a suit has been filed by Roxane not contradicting the preliminary report the final report conceded Laboratories, Inc. a generic competitor, seeking lost profits from that delays in generic entry was as much the fault of the regulatory the Groups alleged actions unlawfully delaying Roxanes entry environment as innovator companies defensive strategies.
The predicate for all of these allegations was report, the Commission stated that it did not attack legitimate the filing by the Group of allegedly sham citizen petitions and patenting practices and identified areas for follow up scrutiny subsequent litigation.
The Group has successfully narrowed the by the Commission and recommended regulatory reform and claims of the purported class of indirect purchasers through improvement.
motions to dismiss their complaint and amended complaints.
Wellbutrin SR The Groups motion to dismiss Roxanes complaint was recently In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits, denied.
Discovery with regard to all parties is scheduled to several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the conclude in Q1 2010.
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Commercial and corporate the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of Wellbutrin SR.
The complaints allege violations of US Securities class actions anti-trust laws through sham litigation and fraud on the patent In November 2007, attorneys purporting to represent a class office by the Group in obtaining and enforcing patents covering of purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADS filed an Wellbutrin SR.
The complaints followed the introduction of amended consolidated complaint against the Group and senior generic competition to Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district officers in the US District Court for the Southern District of New and appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer did not York.
It alleged that the Group and the individual defendants infringe the Groups patents.
While a class of direct purchasers violated US securities laws and artificially inflated the price of has been certified, no decision has yet been made by the GlaxoSmithKlines stock by misleading investors about the safety Court with regard to certification of an indirect purchaser class.
The amended consolidated complaint also alleges Discovery has been substantially completed and the Groups that several current and former senior officers and members motion for summary judgment remains pending.
of the Group engaged in insider trading.
A motion to dismiss the complaint has been filed on behalf of the Group and the individual defendants.
In May 2008, the District Court entered an order dismissing the case as to all defendants.
Plaintiffs filed an appeal with the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
In August 2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Courts dismissal.
GSK Annual Report 2009 176 Notes to the financial statements A third case, filed in the US District Court for the District of 44 Legal proceedings continued Arizona in November 2008, sought to establish a nationwide On 6th July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of collective action on behalf of the entire Groups US current and former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. pharmaceutical sales representatives on the ground that those was filed in US District Court for the Southern District of representatives were not exempt employees under the US Fair Florida.
The complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and Labor Standards Act.
Plaintiffs sought double damages for all directors violated US Employee Retirement Income Security Act overtime allegedly worked by the Groups pharmaceutical sales ERISA and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel representatives over a three year period.
In November 2009, employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back the Court granted the Groups motion for summary judgment to Stiefel company at a greatly undervalued price and without and dismissed the lawsuit on the ground that the sales disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be sold.
In representatives were exempt employees under the outside January, defendants motion to dismiss was granted in part and sales exemption to the US Fair Labor Standards Act.
Specifically, while the Court determined that the asked the Court to reconsider and amend its judgment based ERISA claims against the individual Stiefel defendants as well as on the rationale advanced by the US Department of Labor in the federal securities claims against the individual defendants a brief the Department had filed in a case involving another and Stiefel could go forward, the Court dismissed the Florida company.
On 1st February 2010, the Court reaffirmed its Securities Act and common law breach of fiduciary duty claims dismissal the action.
Plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice that holding that ERISA pre-empts state and common law, as well as they are appealing the decision to the US Court of Appeals for a malpractice claim against Stiefels former accountants.
Wage and hour claims Environmental matters In December 2006, two purported class actions were filed GSK has been notified of its potential responsibility relating against the Group on behalf of the entire Groups US to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at pharmaceutical sales representatives.
These actions, which were certain sites, primarily in the USA.
Some of these matters are filed in or transferred to the US District Court for the Central the subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by District of California, initially alleged that those representatives the US federal or state governments for waste disposal, site are not exempt employees under California law and or the remediation costs and tort actions brought by private parties.
US Fair Labor Standards Act and are consequently entitled to GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party at overtime pay, among other things.
approximately 29 sites, of which 14 appear on the National Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaints to Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental assert a class action, limited solely to pharmaceutical sales Response Compensation and Liability Act Superfund.
These representatives working in California, and only asserting claims proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste under Californias wage and hour laws.
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites The suits seek a variety of compensatory, punitive and statutory or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs.
The Group moved for summary judgement dismissing instances, GSK is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous the claims of the putative class representatives on the ground waste.
Although Superfund provides that the defendants are that they were exempt employees.
The Court held that there jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are appeals pending in the United States Court of Appeals for are frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity the Ninth Circuit in cases involving other manufacturers with of waste disposed of by the generator at the site.
GSKs virtually the same factual and legal arguments.
It therefore proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially deferred ruling on the summary judgement motion and stayed determined for about 20 of the sites referred to above.
any further activity in the case until the appellate court rules in at least one of the other companies pending cases.
GSKs potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time, be substantial, GSK routinely accrues amounts related to its share of the liability for such matters.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182
