180 Notes to the company balance sheet UK GAAP Expenditure A Presentation of the financial statements Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received Description of business when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, past event and where the amount of the obligation can be development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical reliably estimated.
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter OTC medicines and health-related consumer products.
Investments in subsidiary companies Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any Preparation of financial statements provision for impairment.
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK generally accepted Impairment of investments accounting principles UK GAAP and with UK accounting The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment presentation as at 31st December 2009, with comparative figures when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
Where appropriate, comparative figures Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to are reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with current the income statement in the year concerned.
Share based payments As permitted by s. 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over loss account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
the companys options, represents additional capital contributions Accounting convention and standards by the company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards.
value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grants Accounting principles and policies vesting period.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally Taxation accepted accounting principles requires management Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent by the balance sheet date.
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are companys accounting policies approved by the Board and only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable described in Note B. against future taxable profits.
B Accounting policies Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are Foreign currency transactions expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate expected to reverse.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged not discounted.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance Financial guarantees sheet date, or at the forward rate.
Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf of its subsidiaries are held at fair value and amortised over the life Dividends paid and received of the guarantee.
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.
C Operating profit A fee of 11,140 2008 11,440 relating to the audit of the company has been charged in operating profit.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182
