Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of The Matters on which we are required to report by exception Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2009, which We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters comprise the parent company balance sheet and related notes 1 where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in in our opinion: their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Accounting Practice.
received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the parent company financial statements and the part of the in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might agreement with the accounting records and returns: or state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or are not made: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and we have not received all the information and explanations we the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this require for our audit.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Other matter Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We have reported separately on the Group financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2009.
Statement, set out on page 103, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Debbie O Hanlon Senior Statutory Auditor with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Auditors.
Newcastle upon Tyne Scope of the audit of the financial statements 2 September 2009 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 27 June 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 101
