Directors Remuneration Report continued The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant benefits in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been created for shareholders.
The Committee considers that, although the nonperformance related elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are substantial, the performance related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the executive directors to improve shareholder value.
Policy on Performance Conditions The performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive directors under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes have varied according to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Committee to establish challenging performance objectives linked to shareholder return.
Executive directors are not eligible to have executive share options granted in the same year as participation in the LTIP.
The Committee intends that if any executive share options are granted in the future, performance conditions will continue to be settled on this basis.
Details of the performance conditions for options currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Share Options below.
Whether performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested by the Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company with relevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants in order to reach its conclusion.
No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available for all employees.
The principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all levels within the Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth in value of the Company and the rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the same terms.
Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses payable to the executive directors are set by the Committee each year in accordance with the general remuneration policy set out above.
Policy on Pensions Until the scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 April 2008, executive directors earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement & Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme.
This scheme, which required a contribution of 6.6% of pensionable salaries from members, provided for up to twothirds of final pensionable salary, dependent on length of pensionable service.
Since 1 April 2008, the Company has paid contributions to the Companys money purchase defined contribution pension schemes for all executive directors.
Policy on Service Contract Notice Periods and Payments on Early Termination The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: the Chief Executives service contract is terminable on one years notice served by either the Company or the director other existing executive directors service contracts are terminable on one years notice served by the Company or by six months notice served by the director: future executive directors will be engaged on terms necessary to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at that time: It is the Companys policy to seek mitigation of entitlements on termination and the Company does not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
