amounted to 112,000 and principally related Payments to suppliers to taxation compliance services and pension Good relationships with our suppliers are scheme audits.
an important factor in the success of the Group.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance Disclosure of information to auditors with the Groups normal terms and conditions of Each of the directors who held office at the date business except where varied terms and conditions of approval of this directors report confirms that, are agreed with individual suppliers, in which case so far as he she is individually aware, there is no these prevail.
Where disputes arise, we attempt relevant audit information of which the Companys to resolve them promptly and amicably to ensure auditors are unaware: and that he she has taken delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
all the steps that he she ought to have taken as The average creditor payment period for the a director to make himself herself aware of any Company and the Group at 2 January 2010 was relevant audit information and to establish that the 41 days 2008: 33 days.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Significant relationships Reappointment of auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the The Group does not have any contractual or Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the other relationships with any single party which are reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of essential to the business of the Group and, therefore, the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming no such relationships have been disclosed.
Auditors By order of the Board Auditor independence and policy on the use of the auditors for nonaudit work.
Andrew Davison The Audit Committee keeps under review all Secretary nonaudit services provided by the external auditors Greggs plc CRN 502851 in order to seek to ensure that their independence and objectivity cannot be compromised.
Fernwood House The Committee recognises that there are situations Clayton Road where it is in the Companys best interests to use Jesmond the services of its external auditors for nonaudit Newcastle upon Tyne work but manages such appointments and will NE2 1TL not allow any nonaudit work that might, in the Committees opinion, impair the auditors objectivity 18 March 2010 or independence.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the external auditors have their own policies and are subject to professional standards designed to safeguard their independence as auditors.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy under which all use of the external auditors for nonaudit work must be reported to and approved by the Committee and the aggregate of such fees will normally be less than 100% of the audit fee.
In circumstances where the Committee believes that it is right to authorise nonaudit fees in excess of this limit the Committee will approve such expenditure in advance of it being committed and provide an explanation to shareholders in the next directors report.
The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, continue to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc does perform nonaudit services for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not impaired by such work.
In 2009, non audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and related KPMG operations 35
