Other share based incentive schemes Deferred Bonus Scheme Under this scheme, the Committee had discretion to invite the participants including executive directors to utilise a proportion not more than 50% of their post tax annual bonus including profit share to acquire shares in the Company and then grant nil cost options to match the pretax value of the sum invested.
These nil cost options were exercisable normally after three years, and only if certain performance criteria have been met.
For the initial award, made in 2007, performance targets were set at average growth in earnings per share of 3% above RPI for a 1:1 match and 7.5% above RPI for a 2:1 match, with a straight line graph indicating the relevant match for performance in between.
Following the three year performance period the conditions have been fully met for this initial award resulting in a 2:1 match being awarded to Richard Hutton, who has an option over 8,120 shares, and Raymond Reynolds, who has an option over 6,100 shares.
For the award in 2008 the performance targets were set at average growth in earnings per share of 3% above the RPI for a 1:1 match and 10% above the RPI for a 2:1 match, providing a further stretch in order to achieve the maximum award.
Given the very low level of bonus payments awarded following the year 2008, the Committee did not offer participation in this LTIP in 2009.
As previously outlined a Performance Share Plan has replaced this LTIP from 2010, and therefore the Committee will offer no further participation in this previous scheme.
Executive Share Option Scheme There have also been occasional grants to the executive directors of options over shares in the Company, pursuant to one or more of the share option schemes operated through the Committee.
These include both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved longterm share incentive schemes, designed to encourage the executive directors and other employees to hold shares in the Company and to enhance share values.
As no participation into the Deferred Bonus LTIP was offered in 2009 an award of share options was made to each executive director in line with such existing schemes.
The level of award granted to each executive director was: Award Granted shares Kennedy McMeikan 80,000 Richard Hutton 80,000 Raymond Reynolds 80,000 The performance conditions set under this grant were growth in earnings per share of 3% above RPI for the minimum vesting and growth of 7% above RPI for maximum vesting.
In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the total number of new shares and shares held in treasury over which the Company may grant options is limited and the Company has chosen to allocate a significant proportion of the shares available to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme open to all employees, including executive directors.
Any future grants of executive share options to executive directors will be based upon the need to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at the date of appointment or to help to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, especially if the LTIP is not available to a particular individual, or where the Committee considers it appropriate.
