Directors Remuneration Report continued The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant benefits in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been created for shareholders.
The Committee considers that, although the nonperformance related elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are substantial, the performance related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the executive directors to improve shareholder value.
Policy on Performance Conditions The performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive directors under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes have varied according to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Committee to establish challenging performance objectives linked to shareholder return.
Executive directors are not eligible to have executive share options granted in the same year as participation in the LTIP.
The Committee intends that if any executive share options are granted in the future, performance conditions will continue to be settled on this basis.
Details of the performance conditions for options currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Share Options below.
Whether performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested by the Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company with relevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants in order to reach its conclusion.
No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available for all employees.
The principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all levels within the Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth in value of the Company and the rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the same terms.
Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses payable to the executive directors are set by the Committee each year in accordance with the general remuneration policy set out above.
Policy on Pensions Until the scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 April 2008, executive directors earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement & Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme.
This scheme, which required a contribution of 6.6% of pensionable salaries from members, provided for up to twothirds of final pensionable salary, dependent on length of pensionable service.
Since 1 April 2008, the Company has paid contributions to the Companys money purchase defined contribution pension schemes for all executive directors.
Policy on Service Contract Notice Periods and Payments on Early Termination The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: the Chief Executives service contract is terminable on one years notice served by either the Company or the director other existing executive directors service contracts are terminable on one years notice served by the Company or by six months notice served by the director: future executive directors will be engaged on terms necessary to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at that time: It is the Companys policy to seek mitigation of entitlements on termination and the Company does not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
82 nonexecutive directors are appointed subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which require them to retire and to seek reelection at the first AGM after appointment.
Any nonexecutive director who has served on the Board for over nine years must seek reelection annually.
Thereafter, one half of the remaining directors, being those who have been longest in office since last reelection, and any other director who has not been elected or reelected at either of the two preceding AGMs, must retire and seek reelection.
The Nominations Committee advises the Board as to whether a particular director, whose turn it is to retire by rotation, should be nominated for reelection.
Nonexecutive directors are not entitled to compensation for early termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be due to retire by rotation, or if not reappointed at such time.
Directors service contracts Details of the directors service contracts or letters of appointment are as follows: Executive Directors Kennedy McMeikan has a service contract with the Company dated 8th April 2008.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1st June 2008.
Richard Hutton has a service contract with the Company dated 7 April 2006.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 January 1998.
Raymond Reynolds has a service contract with the Company dated 18 December 2006.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 December 1986.
In addition to their basic salaries, each is entitled to participate in the Companys profit sharing scheme available to all employees.
They are also entitled to additional benefits including membership of the company pension scheme, the use of a motor car, private medical insurance, life assurance, permanent health insurance and a contribution towards telephone expenses.
Non Executive Directors In order to ensure that no director is involved in deciding his her own remuneration, the fees payable to non executive directors other than the Chairman are set, after consultation with the Chairman, by a committee of the Board consisting only of executive directors Kennedy McMeikan, Richard Hutton and Raymond Reynolds who periodically seek advice from external consultants as to the appropriate market rates applicable.
Such advice was obtained in 2009 from Monks Partnership, as a result of which increases were awarded in January 2010 which reflect appropriate market rates.
The basic nonexecutive fees for 2010 are 37,000 per annum, including membership of committee s, and an additional 5,500 for Chairmanship of the Audit or Remuneration Committees.
The nonexecutive directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
However, each of them does have a letter of appointment.
These are dated 25 February 2002 for Derek Netherton, 1 December 2003 for Bob Bennett, 1 March 2005 for Julie Baddeley, 21 February 2008 for Roger Whiteside and 31 March 2009 for Iain Ferguson respectively.
The terms of appointment of each nonexecutive director require that they seek reelection on a regular basis in accordance with the articles of association of the Company see above.
The fees payable to the nonexecutive directors cover all normal duties.
In exceptional circumstances, where significant additional time commitment is required, the Board or a duly authorised committee may award additional fees.
No right of compensation exists where the office is terminated, for whatever reason.
