Financial Risk Management Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is considered not to be significant as sale of goods is for cash.
Other receivables are primarily prepaid rent and rates as well as amounts owed from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of VAT.
The credit risk on remaining other receivables and trade receivables is therefore not considered significant.
Counterparty risk is also considered low.
All of the Groups surplus cash is held with highly rated banks, in line with Group policy.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group operates with net current liabilities because all sales are for cash and limited stocks are held given their perishable nature.
It is therefore reliant on the continued strong performance of the retail portfolio to meet its short term liabilities.
This is a well established and proven business model.
Any increase in short term liquidity risk can be mitigated by reducing the capital expenditure budget.
The Group has substantial cash resources at the year end, and if necessary, would be able to obtain substantial debt funding.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices which will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
Given that, as explained below, market risk is not significant, sensitivity analysis would not be meaningful.
Currency Risk Following the exit from the Belgian operation the Group has no regular transactions in foreign currency although there are occasional purchases, mainly of capital items, denominated in foreign currency.
Whilst certain costs such as electricity and wheat can be influenced by movements in the US dollar, actual contracts are priced in sterling.
In respect of those key costs which are volatile, such as electricity and flour, the price may be fixed for a period of time in line with Group policy.
All such contracts are for the Groups own expected usage.
Interest rate The Group has low exposure to interest rate risk.
Interest only arises on its bank deposits and overdrafts.
Net financial income in the year was 346,000.
Equity prices The Group has no equity investments other than its subsidiaries.
53 Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 2.
Financial Risk Management continued Capital Management The Board defines capital as the equity of the Group.
The Group remains net cash positive with funding requirements met by cash generated from retail operations.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to enable successful future development of the business.
The Boards policy on dividend levels is to pursue a progressive dividend policy that pays due regard to the growth of earnings per share over the medium term, the cash generative nature of our growing business and our continuing determination to deliver value to our shareholders.
The Board will continue to consider purchasing its own shares in the market dependent on market prices and surplus cash levels.
The trustees of the Greggs Employment Benefit Trust also purchase shares for future satisfaction of employee share options.
During the year the shareholders approved a ten for one share split in order to make the Companys shares more accessible and appealing, particularly to small shareholders and our own employees.
Financial instruments Group and Parent Company All the Groups surplus cash is invested as cash placed on deposit.
The Groups treasury policy has as its principal objective the achievement of the maximum rate of return on cash balances whilst maintaining an acceptable level of risk.
Other than mentioned below there are no financial instruments, derivatives or commodity contracts used.
Financial assets and liabilities The Groups main financial asset comprises cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial assets include trade receivables arising from the Groups activities.
Other than trade and other payables, the Group had no financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 as at 2 January 2010 2008: nil.
Fair values The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is not materially different from their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities comprise principally of trade receivables and trade payables and the only interest bearing balances are the bank deposits and borrowings which attract interest at variable rate.
Interest rate, credit and foreign currency risk The Group has not entered into any hedging transactions during the year and considers interest rate, credit and foreign currency risks not to be significant.
