Notes to the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies Greggs plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group accounts consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company accounts present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the directors on 18 March 2010. a Statement of compliance Both the Parent Company accounts and the Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
On publishing the Parent Company accounts here together with the Group accounts, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved accounts.
b Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared on the historical cost basis.
A minor presentational change has been made to the income statement reallocating some salary and associated costs from administrative expenses to cost of sales and distribution and selling costs.
There is no impact on net profit see further detail below.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors report and business review on pages 8 to 35.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executives report on pages 13 to 19.
In addition note 2 to the accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and the business continues to be strongly cash generative.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
The Group chose not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date on an IFRS basis, as no significant acquisitions had taken place during the previous 10 years.
The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against reserves.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group and to all years presented in these consolidated accounts and are unchanged from previous years.
As a result the comparative figures for 2008 have been restated as follows administrative expenses have reduced from 40.8m to 35.9m, cost of sales has increased from 240.2m to 241.9m and distribution and selling costs have increased from 306.6m to 309.7m.
There is no impact on net profit.
From 1 January 2009 the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group: 45 Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements these amendments revise requirements for the presentation of the financial statements and do not affect the Groups overall reported results.
Improvements to IFRSs 2008 the amendments to IAS 1 clarify the classification of derivative financial instruments as current or noncurrent.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Sharebased payments: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations these amendments concern certain aspects of the valuation of sharebased payments and the impact of a cancellation by a grantee.
These amendments have not had a significant impact on the charge for sharebased payments.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments this standard amends the requirements for disclosure of segmental performance and does not have any effect on the Groups overall reported results.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs the amendment generally eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as incurred, and instead requires the capitalisation of such borrowing costs as part of the cost of the specific asset.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments these amendments are to enhance disclosures over fair value measurements relating to financial instruments and improving disclosures over liquidity risk.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit of a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction this interpretation applies where regulatory funding requirements will result in an unrecognisable surplus arising in the future.
The adoption of the above has not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The preparation of financial information in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The key estimates and judgements that have the most significant impact on the accounts are as follows: Lease classification Judgement has to be applied as to whether the Groups shop leases are operating leases or finance leases see note 23 for how this is determined.
Post retirement benefits The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rate, mortality rates and expected return on scheme assets.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future years.
The key assumptions made for 2009 are given in note 20.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For example, bakery equipment may be impaired if it is no longer in use and or shop fittings may be impaired if sales in that shop fall.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations which include managements estimates of future cash flows generated by the assets and an appropriate discount rate.
46 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to the residual values over their estimated useful lives, both of which require managements judgement see accounting policy g. Provisions Provision is required in respect of closed shops for which the Group has on going lease commitments.
Management exercises judgement as to whether the shop will be sublet to a third party taking into account current market conditions and, if so, for how long and at what rent, in order to estimate the future net holding cost to the Group until the lease can be exited.
This estimate is then discounted where the impact would be material at a rate that reflects the current time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
In respect of our exit from the Belgian operation, a provision remains for the potential recourse of leases taken over by the new owner.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2010.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
d Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1. e Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
f Intangible assets The Groups only intangible asset is accounting software which is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are five years.
47 Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. The cost of selfconstructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
ii Subsequent costs The Group and Company recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when the cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
iii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are depreciated by equal instalments over a period of 40 years.
The depreciation rates are as follows: Short leasehold properties 10% Plant: General 10% Computers 20% 33 % Motor vehicles 20% 25% Delivery trays 33 % Shop fixtures and fittings: General 10% Electronic equipment 20% Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values if not insignificant are reassessed annually.
iv Assets in the course of construction Depreciation on these assets commences when the assets are available for use.
h Investments Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and direct production labour costs.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
48 k Impairment The carrying amounts of the Group and Companys assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment reviews are carried out on an individual shop basis unless there are a number of shops in the same location, in which case the impairment review is based on the location.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are assessed at each reporting date and reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Noncurrent assets held for sale Noncurrent assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held for sale.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group and Companys accounting policies.
Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
m Share capital i Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares that are held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
ii Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
n Employee share ownership plan The Group and Parent Company accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
In both the Group and Parent Company accounts the shares held by the EBT are stated at cost and deducted from total equity.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
ii Defined benefit plans The Group and Companys obligation in respect of defined benefit postemployment plans, including pension plans, is calculated by estimating the amount of the future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
49 Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued The Group and Company recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the year in which they occur in the statement of changes in equity.
iii Sharebased payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
For options granted before 7 November 2002 the recognition and measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1.
In addition deferred taxation has not been recognised on these options but is accounted for as current tax when it arises.
p Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
i Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii Closed shops Provision is made for vacant and partly sublet properties for the shorter of the remaining period of the lease and the period until, in the directors opinion, they will be able to exit the lease commitment.
Significant assumptions are applied in making these calculations and such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
q Revenue i Goods sold Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised as income on receipt of cash and is stated after deduction of discounts, promotions and value added taxation.
r Government grants Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement over the useful life of the asset.
50 s Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
t Finance income and expense i Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and foreign exchange movements relating to overseas bank accounts.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
ii Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings and related foreign exchange movements on any Euro bank borrowings.
u Income tax Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences relating to the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit are not provided for, other than in a business combination.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related deferred tax benefit will be realised.
v Research and development The Company continuously strives to improve its products and processes through technical and other innovation.
Such expenditure is typically expensed to the income statement as the related intellectual property is not capable of being formalised.
