The directors confirm that to the best of Statement of directors their knowledge: responsibilities in respect of the the accounts, prepared in accordance with Annual Report and Accounts the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, The directors are responsible for preparing liabilities, financial position and profit of the the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company and the undertakings included in Company accounts in accordance with applicable the consolidation taken as a whole and: law and regulations.
the directors report, which incorporates Company law requires the directors to prepare the Chairmans statement, the Chief Group and Parent Company accounts for each Executives report and the Corporate Social financial year.
Under that law they are required to Responsibility statement include a fair review prepare the Group accounts in accordance with of the development and performance of the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law business and the position of the Company and have elected to prepare the Parent Company and the undertakings included in the accounts on the same basis.
consolidation taken as a whole, together Under company law the directors must not with a description of the principal risks and approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that uncertainties that they face.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
