Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued w IFRSs available for early adoption not yet applied The following standards and amendments to standards which will be relevant to the Group, were available for early adoption but have not been applied in these accounts: Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Classification of Rights Issues applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
These standards amendments are not currently expected to have a significant impact on the accounts when they are adopted.
Segmental analysis The introduction of IFRS 8 has necessitated a reassessment of the reportable segments within the Group and the nature of related disclosures.
The Board is considered to be the chief operating decision maker of the Group in the context of the IFRS 8 definition.
Throughout 2008 and 2009 the Group has progressively been reorganised into a centrally managed business with an integrated supply chain.
During 2009 the Groups 11 operating divisions were reorganised into seven retail regions, each reporting to the Group Retail Director.
These retail regions, and their predecessor divisions, have similar economic characteristics, products, customers and production and distribution methods and have therefore been aggregated into a single reportable segment.
The segment results, as reported to the chief operating decision maker, are calculated under the principles of IFRS.
Products and services the Group sells a consistent range of fresh bakery goods, sandwiches and drinks in its shops.
Major customers the majority of sales are made to the general public on a cash basis.
A small proportion of sales are made on credit to certain organisations but these are immaterial in a group context.
Geographical areas in early 2009 we exited our Belgian stores, which were insignificant in a group context.
All other results arise in the UK.
The Board has carefully considered the requirements of IFRS 8 and concluded that, as there is only one reportable segment whose revenue, profits, assets and liabilities are measured and reported on a consistent basis with the group financial statements no additional numerical disclosures are necessary.
