Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HALFORDS GROUP plc THE COMPANY We have audited the Company financial statements of Halfords Group Sheet, Accounting Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements, plc for the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009, which comprise the reconciliation Shareholder Information, Company Information and all elements of Movement in Shareholders funds, Company Balance Sheet, listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our Accounting Policies and the related notes.
These Company financial report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the Directors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Halfords Group plc for the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009. on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Directors Remuneration Report and the Company financial statements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting made by the Directors in the preparation of the Company financial Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and the disclosed.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Company opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save in the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company financial In our opinion: statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the n the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 3 April 2009: Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors n the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Statement, the Business Review and the Finance Directors Report that accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
n the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the  LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND REGISTERED AUDITORS specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other BIRMINGHAM transactions is not disclosed.
10 JUNE 2009 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial and Operational Highlights, Halfords at a Glance, Chairmans Statement, Business Review, Finance Directors Report, Corporate Social Responsibility, The Board, Directors Report, Corporate Governance, Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Directors Responsibilities, Independent Auditors Report the Group, Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Notes to Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Accounting Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements, Five Year Record, Independent Auditors Report the Company, Company Balance 15953HALFORDS.
