FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing these accounts.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 29 March 2008 and 28 March 2009.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations in issue have not been applied as they are not yet in effect: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 2007: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations: revised IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: and revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards, other than IFRS 3, and Interpretations in future periods will not have a material effect on the Groups financial statements, except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 3 introduces changes to acquisition accounting, notably in respect of the treatment of acquisition costs, step and partial acquisitions, minority interests and contingent consideration.
Revised IFRS 3, which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements, will be applied prospectively and therefore there will be no impact on prior years in the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements.
The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described below under the heading Financial Instruments.
After making enquiries and taking into consideration the uncertainties arising due to current recessionary conditions, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group accounts see page 50 for more details.
The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key areas where estimates have been used and assumptions applied are in the valuation of acquired intangible assets and product development costs, impairment testing of goodwill and in assessing the defined benefit pension plan liabilities.
Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and its subsidiary companies made up to 28 March 2009, adjusted to eliminate intraGroup transactions, balances, income and expenses.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or discontinued are included from the month of their acquisition or to the month of their discontinuation.
Goodwill Goodwill in respect of acquisitions after 4 April 2004 the date from which the financial statements were reported under IFRS represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the business acquired, and is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill therefore includes non-identified intangible assets including business processes, buyer-specific synergies, know-how and workforce-related industry-specific knowledge and technical skills.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
On closure or disposal of an acquired business, goodwill would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on closure or disposal.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 in its consolidated accounts.
As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that date: and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards.
Other intangible assets a Product development costs Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new or substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven and the decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably.
Such expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet at cost and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of three years after which time it is retired and written out of the accounts.
b Acquired intangible assets An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Acquired intangible assets are amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and ten years.
c Computer software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset, and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three and five years.
d Other intangibles Other intangibles are amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and ten years.
com 67 Accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Foreign currencies The Group presents its accounts in Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated income statement.
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations are taken to the Translation reserve within Shareholders funds.
In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after taking into account the cumulative translation difference held within the Translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the Translation reserve to be nil at 4 April 2004.
Accordingly, the profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not include any currency translation differences which arose before 4 April 2004.
Financial instruments The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes, but uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce its exposure to exchange rate movements.
Forward currency contracts are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resultant gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement immediately.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to hedge its investment in foreign subsidiaries.
The effective part of any gain or loss on these currency borrowings is recognised directly in the Translation reserve within Shareholders funds.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Transactions are recorded as revenue when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Freehold property 2% Leasehold properties: Long leases more than 50 years unexpired 2% Short leases less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 20% 13 Short-life tooling 33 % Leases Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases, of which the Group has none.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pensions The Group makes contributions to various pension plans, covering the majority of its employees.
For defined benefit plans, the asset or liability recorded in the balance sheet is the difference between the fair value of the plans assets and the present value of the defined obligation at that date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately for each plan on an annual basis by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are taken to Shareholders funds.
Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated income statement.
Interest on pension plans liabilities are recognised within finance expense and the expected return on the schemes assets are recognised within finance income in the Consolidated income statement.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Consolidated income statement when they fall due.
68 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employee share schemes Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups share incentive plan, the share option plans and the performance share plan.
a Share incentive plan Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria.
The shares awarded under this plan are purchased in the market by the plans trustees at the time of the award, and are then held in trust for a minimum of three years.
The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated income statement over the three-year vesting periods of the awards.
b Share option plans All grants of options under the 1990 and 1996 share option plans and the 1999 company share option plan together, the share option plans are equity settled, and so, as permitted by IFRS 1, the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment have been applied only to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 which had not vested at 3 April 2005.
The fair value of awards under these plans has been measured at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and will not be subsequently remeasured.
The fair value is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The corresponding credit is to Shareholders funds.
No further awards will be made under the share option plans.
c Performance share plan On 3 August 2005 the share option plans were replaced by the performance share plan.
Awards under this plan are partly equity-settled and partly cash-settled, and are subject to both market based and non-market based vesting criteria.
The fair value of the equity-settled portion at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of market-based performance conditions being met.
The fair value is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures arising from the non-market based performance conditions only.
For the cash-settled portion, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress of subsidiary companies are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated either on a first in, first out or an average cost basis and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of production and other overheads considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the year end.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Taxation Taxation comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders funds, in which case it too is recognised in Shareholders funds.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or subsequently enacted at the balance sheet date, along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from net profits as reported in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart from the following differences which are not provided for goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits: differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws, which are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that recovery is probable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
