Financial Statements Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June In s million Note 2009 2008 Operating profit from continuing operations 158.0 269.1 Adjustments for: Exceptional items non cash 5 15.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10.4 9.6 Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 1.2 1.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.8 Net movement in provisions 0.1 5.9 Movement in employee benefits and other items 0.4 11.9 12.9 2.0 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 170.9 271.1 Changes in working capital Decrease increase in receivables 99.0 42.6 Decrease increase in payables 9.0 27.5 90.0 15.1 Cash generated by operations 260.9 256.0 Income taxes paid 56.5 74.1 Net cash from operating activities 204.4 181.9 Investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 8.2 14.8 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 Purchase of intangible assets 28.8 6.7 Cash paid in respect of acquisitions made in previous years 5.4 Sale of businesses and related assets discontinued 0.6 Interest received 1.9 3.2 Net cash used in investing activities 40.5 17.6 Financing activities Interest paid 4.6 10.4 Equity dividends paid 79.3 74.0 Cash outflow in respect of share buy-back 2.1 91.1 Purchase of own shares 0.7 Proceeds from share option exercises 2.8 Proceeds from sale of own shares 5.4 Issue repayment of loan notes 0.6 0.8 Decrease in bank overdrafts 82.7 8.7 Additional pension scheme funding 2.7 2.5 Net cash used in financing activities 165.4 185.4 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1.5 21.1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 32 54.0 68.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.5 6.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 32 55.0 54.0 70 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General information Going concern Hays plc is a Company incorporated in England and Wales and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to its registered office is 250 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF.
effect its future development, performance and position are set out in the review of the business on pages 2 to 43.
The financial The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in position of the Group, its cash ows and liquidity position are accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards described in the financial review on pages 28 to 32.
In addition, IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretation notes 17 to 18 to the consolidated financial statements include Committee interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European details of the Groups treasury activities, long-term funding Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the European arrangements and exposure to financial risk.
Union International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
The Group has sufficient financial resources which, together New standards and interpretations with internally generated cash ows, will continue to provide There have been no alterations made to the accounting policies sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, as a result of considering all amendments to IFRS and IFRIC including its contractual and commercial commitments and interpretations that became effective during the financial year, any proposed dividends, and the Group is well placed to as these were considered to be immaterial to the Groups manage its business risks.
operations or were not relevant.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed the The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, judgment, at the time of approving the consolidated financial amendments and interpretations to existing standards, which statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the have been published but are only effective for our accounting Group has adequate resources to continue in operational periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the These new standards are listed below: directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in IFRS 8 Operating Segments preparing the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non Cash Assets b Basis of consolidation to Owners Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which power to control is transferred to the Group.
They are fideIFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets to Customers consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements The purchase method of accounting is used to account for IAS 23 amendment Borrowing Costs the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
On acquisition the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Statements Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The financial statements consolidate the accounts IFRS 2 amendment Share-Based Payments of Hays plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries.
IFRS 5 amendment Non-current Assets Held for Sale and The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Discontinued Operations year are included from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
IAS 28 amendment Investment in Associates All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are IAS 32 amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation eliminated on consolidation.
IAS 38 amendment Intangible Assets c Turnover IAS 39 amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Turnover is measured at the fair value of the consideration Measurement received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, Effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The directors are currently evaluating the impact of the Turnover arising from the placement of permanent candidates adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations.
is recognised at the time the candidate commences full-time The Groups principal accounting policies adopted in the employment.
Provision is made for the expected cost of presentation of these financial statements are set out below meeting obligations where employees do not work for the and have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
Turnover arising from temporary placements is recognised over 2 significant accounting policies the period that temporary staff are provided.
Where the Group aBasis of preparation is acting as a principal, turnover represents the amounts billed The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in for the services of the temporary staff, including the salary accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union costs of those staff.
and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
com 71 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 significant accounting policies continued The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Where Hays acts as principal in arrangements that invoice Balance Sheet represents the present value of the dened on behalf of other recruitment agencies, turnover represents benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service amounts invoiced and collected on behalf of other recruitment cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any agencies, including arrangements where no commission is asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service directly receivable by the Group.
cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contribution to the scheme.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, turnover represents commission receivable relating to the supply of temporary Payments to dened contribution schemes are charged as an staff and does not include the salary costs of the temporary expense as they fall due.
Where the Group receives income in respect of payroll h Share-based payments processing, only the service fee element of this service is The fair value of all share-based remuneration that is assessed recognised as turnover.
upon market based performance criteria is determined at the d Net fees date of grant and recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Net fees represent turnover less the remuneration costs Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting of temporary workers for temporary assignments.
For the period, taking account of the estimated number of shares that placement of permanent candidates, net fees are equal will vest.
The fair value of all share-based remuneration that is assessed e Exceptional items upon non-market based performance criteria is determined Exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the Consolidated at the date of the grant and recognised as an expense in the Income Statement, are items which due to their size and nonConsolidated Income Statement over the vesting period, based recurring nature have been classied separately in order to draw on the number of shares that are expected to vest.
The number them to the attention of the reader of the financial statements of shares that are expected to vest is adjusted accordingly to and to show the underlying profits of the Group.
the satisfaction of the performance criteria at each period end.
f Foreign currencies The fair values are determined by use of the relevant valuation On consolidation, the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities models.
All share-based remuneration is equity settled.
of foreign subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are i Borrowing costs translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period date.
Income and expense items are translated into sterling in which they are incurred.
at average rates of exchange for the period.
Any exchange differences which have arisen from an entitys investment in j Taxation a foreign subsidiary, including long-term loans, are recognised The tax expense comprises both current and deferred tax.
as a separate component of equity and are to be included in The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the the Groups translation reserve.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the On disposal of a subsidiary, any amounts transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of translation reserve are included in the calculation of profit and income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years loss on disposal.
All other translation differences are dealt with and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Goodwill and fair-value adjustments arising on the acquisition sheet date.
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all temporary differences, at rates that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance g Retirement benefit costs sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the The expense of dened benefit pension schemes and other extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available post-retirement employee benets is determined using the against which to offset the deductible temporary differences.
projected-unit credit method and charged to the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense, based on actuarial assumptions Temporary differences arise where there is a difference reecting market conditions at the beginning of the financial year.
between the accounting carrying value in the Consolidated Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the amount attributed to that asset or Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in liability for tax purposes.
Past service costs are recognised immediately Deferred tax is provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries to the extent that benets have vested or, if not vested, on a and associates, where the Group is unable to control the timing straight-line basis over the period until the benets vest.
of the distribution, and it is probable that the temporary The Group has chosen under IFRS 1 to recognise in retained difference will reverse in the future.
earnings all cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has k Goodwill chosen to recognise all actuarial gains and losses arising Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of subsequent to 1 July 2004 in the Consolidated Statement purchase consideration less the fair value of the identiable of Recognised Income and Expense.
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired.
72 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
