Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Reporting Entity Heritage Oil Plc the Company was incorporated under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended on 6 February 2008 as Heritage Oil Limited.
The Company changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
The Company was established in order to implement a corporate reorganisation of Heritage Oil Corporation HOC, the Corporation.
These consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises control.
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as the Group.
The key subsidiaries consolidated within these financial statements include inter alia Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage Oil & Gas Limited, Eagle Energy Oman Limited disposed in 2009 note 6, Heritage Oil and Gas U Limited, Heritage Energy Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya Geologicheskaya Kompaniya, Heritage Oil & Gas Austria GesmbH, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 Limited, Heritage Energy Holding GesmbH, Heritage Oil & Gas Gibraltar Limited, TISEHeritage Neftegaz, Begal Air Limited, Heritage International Holding GesmbH, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil Barbados Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Switzerland SA, Heritage Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil Cooperatief U.
Heritage Oil Holdings Limited, Heritage International VOF, Heritage International Holding Gibraltar Limited, Heritage Tanzania KimbijiLatham Limited, Heritage Tanzania Kisangire Limited and Heritage Oil Tanzania Limited.
The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issuance on 29 April 2010.
2 Significant Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
The Group had available cash of $208 million at 31 December 2009.
Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of this report.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage raises financing for its activities from time to time using a variety of sources.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal proceeds from the sale of assets, such as the sale of the Companys holdings in Oman in 2009 and the proposed disposal of its 50% interests in Blocks 1 and 3A, Uganda note 6, using its existing treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds from operations, farm outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a number of different sources of finance available and the Directors are confident that additional finance will be raised as and when needed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Operations Review of the Annual Report on pages 18 to 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 37.
In addition, note 3 to the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management: and its exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4. b Change in Accounting Policies i Presentation of Financial Statements In 2009, the Group has applied IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 which has introduced a number of terminology changes and has resulted in a number of changes in presentation and disclosure.
The revised standard has had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
76 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued ii Determination and Presentation of Operating Segments Also see note 2d As of January 2009, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the Chief Executive Officer CEO, who is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
This change in accounting policy is due to the adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Previously operating segments were determined and presented in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The new accounting policy in respect of segment operating disclosures is presented as follows.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results, for which discrete financial information is available, are reviewed regularly by the CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance.
Segment results that are reported to the CEO and CFO include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets, corporate offices expenses and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill.
iii Borrowings In 2009, the Company changed its accounting policy in relation to the recognition of equity or financial liabilities arising from the issue of convertible bonds.
Previously the Company made the assessment of whether the conversion feature is a derivative liability or an equity instrument on initial recognition only and did not revisit that assessment, absent any actual change in the contractual terms.
It is now the Companys policy to reassess the classification during the life of the convertible bond and reclassify between liabilities and equity when appropriate.
In particular, the Company now adopts a policy of reassessing the initial classification when there has been a change in the effective terms of the contract.
It was the existence of the Company call option that resulted in derivative treatment for the conversion option in the convertible bond issued on 16 February 2007.
Following the expiry of that option the Company has under this new policy reclassified the conversion option as an equity instrument from that date.
The Company believes this new policy provides reliable and more relevant information as it bases the classification of such instruments on the terms that are currently operative.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors the change has been made retrospectively and the comparatives have been restated accordingly.
As a result, the loss for continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been restated to increase the previously reported net loss attributable to owners of the Company by $4.9 million to $46.2 million.
These adjustments have been taken up in finance income costs.
In addition, non-current derivative financial liabilities were reduced by $25.8 million to nil at 31 December 2008 and the fair value of the conversion feature as at 16 February 2008 of $30.6 million was transferred to equity through the Statement of Changes in Equity.
If the accounting policy had not changed then an additional loss of $63.5 million would have been recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2009 and a non-current derivative financial liability of $89.2 million would have been recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2009.
The change in accounting policy had no impact on the cash flow statement.
No consolidated balance sheet as at 1 January 2008 has been presented because the change in accounting policy had no impact at that date.
c Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and liabilities of all subsidiaries of the Company as at 31 December 2009 and 2008 and the results of all subsidiaries for the years then ended.
Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, so as to obtain benefits from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Company controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group entities the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated.
For the purposes of consolidation, the accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company.
77 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued d Segment Reporting As of January 2009, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the CEO, who is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the CEO and CFO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
e Joint Arrangements The majority of exploration, development and production activities are conducted jointly with others under contractual arrangement and, accordingly, the Group only reflects its proportionate interest in such assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
f Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures The Group applies a modified full cost method of accounting for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
Under the modified full cost method of accounting, costs of exploring for and evaluating oil and gas properties are capitalised on a licence or prospect basis and the resulting assets are tested for impairment by reference to appropriate cost pools.
Such cost pools are based on geographic areas and are not larger than a segment.
The Group had eight cost pools in 2009, 2008 nine cost pools, including Oman Uganda, Kurdistan, Russia, DRC, Pakistan, Malta, Mali and Tanzania.
E&E costs related to each licence prospect are initially capitalised within Intangible exploration assets.
Such E&E costs may include costs of licence acquisition, technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, the projected costs of retiring the assets if any and directly attributable general and administrative expenses, but do not include costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area, which are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
Where the Company farms-in to licences and incurs costs in excess of its own share of licence costs as consideration, these costs are capitalised as its own share.
Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classified as property, plant and equipment: however, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are not depreciated and are carried forward until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined.
The Groups definition of commercial reserves for such purpose is proved and probable reserves on an entitlement basis.
Proved and probable reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty see below to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proved and probable and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
The equivalent statistical probabilities for the proven component of proved and probable reserves are 90% and 10%, respectively.
Such reserves may be considered commercially producible if management has the intention of developing and producing them and such intention is based upon: a reasonable assessment of the future economics of such production: a reasonable expectation that there is a market for all or substantially all the expected hydrocarbon production: and evidence that the necessary production, transmission and transportation facilities are available or can be made available.
Furthermore: i Reserves may only be considered proved and probable if producibility is supported by either actual production or a conclusive formation test.
The area of reservoir considered proved includes a that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and or oil-water contacts, if any, or both, and b the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geophysical, geological and engineering data.
In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
78 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued ii Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques such as fluid injection are only included in the proved and probable classification when successful testing by a pilot project, the operation of an installed programme in the reservoir, or other reasonable evidence such as, experience of the same techniques on similar reservoirs or reservoir simulation studies provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or programme was based.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets is then reclassified as development and production assets within property, plant and equipment.
E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount.
Such indicators include the point at which a determination is made as to whether or not commercial reserves exist.
Where the E&E assets concerned fall within the scope of an established full cost pool, the E&E assets are tested for impairment together with all development and production assets associated with that cost pool, as a single cash generating unit.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
Where the E&E assets to be tested fall outside the scope of any established cost pool, there will generally be no commercial reserves and the E&E assets concerned will be written off in full.
g Property, Plant and Equipment i Development and Production Assets The Group had one interest at the development and production stage during the years covered by these financial statements: Russia.
2008 Russia and Oman which was disposed in 2009 note 6.
Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined above, the projected cost of retiring the assets and directly attributable general and administrative expenses.
The net book values of producing assets are depleted on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method by reference to the ratio of production in the year to the related proved plus probable reserves of the field, taking into account estimated future development expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from the production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows generated by the fields are interdependent.
ii Other Assets Other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The assets useful lives and residual values are assessed on an annual basis.
Furniture and fittings are depreciated using the reducing balance method at 20% per year.
Land is not subject to depreciation.
The corporate jet is depreciated over its expected useful life of 69 months.
Depreciation is charged so as to write-off the cost, less estimated residual value of the corporate jet on a straight-line basis.
Corporate capital assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The building is depreciated on a straightline basis over 40 years with nil residual value.
The land is not depreciated.
h Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
i Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
j Inventories Inventories consist of petroleum, condensate, liquid petroleum gas and materials that are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour, depletion and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
79 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued k Investments The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, and availablefor-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
During the years covered by these financial statements the Group did not have any investments classified as loans and receivables or held to maturity investments.
i Financial Assets at Fair Value Through the Income Statement Financial assets held for trading are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through the income statement category are presented in the income statement within Unrealised gain loss on other financial assets in the year in which they arise.
ii Available-for-Sale Financial Assets Available-for-sale financial assets, comprising principally marketable equity securities, are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities classified as available-for-sale other than impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in the income statement are recognised in equity.
Upon sale of a security classified as available-for-sale, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Measurement is assessed by reference to the fair value of the financial asset or group of financial assets.
l NonCurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-current assets including those that are part of a disposal group are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale.
Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as assets held for sale are presented separately, as current assets, from the other assets in the balance sheet.
The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately, as current liabilities, from other liabilities in the balance sheet.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, from the comparative income statement is re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
m Trade and Other Payables These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid.
n Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption amount is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds are separated into liability and derivative liability components being the bondholders conversion option and each component is recognised separately.
On initial recognition, the fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent non convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The Company reassesses the classification during the life of the convertible bond and reclassifies between liabilities and equity when appropriate note 2b iii.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in finance income or costs.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
80 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued o Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Other borrowing costs are expensed.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to the Groups outstanding borrowings during the year.
p Provisions Asset Retirement Obligations Provision is made for the estimated cost of any asset retirement obligations when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Asset retirement obligation expense is capitalised in the relevant asset category unless it arises from the normal course of production activities.
Provisions are measured at the present value of managements best estimate of expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Subsequent to the initial measurement of the asset retirement obligation, the obligation is adjusted at the end of each year to reflect the passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows underlying the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as finance costs whereas changes in the estimated future cash flows are added to or deducted from the related asset in the current period.
q Revenue Recognition Revenue from the sale of petroleum and natural gas is recognised at the fair value received or receivable and is recorded when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product are transferred to the buyer.
For sales of oil and gas this is usually when legal title passes to the external party which occurs on shipment of oil and gas to the buyer.
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
r Income Taxes Current income tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups current tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority.
s Foreign Currency Translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
The results and financial position of all the Companys consolidated subsidiaries none of which has a functional currency that is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each year are translated at average exchange rates unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as either income or expense in a separate component of equity.
81 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Foreign currency loans and overdrafts are designated as, and are considered to be, hedges of the exchange rate exposure inherent in foreign currency net investments and, to the extent that the hedge is effective, exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans are also recognised as income or expense directly in equity.
All other exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are recognised in the income statement.
When a foreign operation is sold, a proportionate share of the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement, as part of the gain or loss on sale where applicable.
t ShareBased Compensation Plans The Group applies the fair value method of accounting to all equity-classified share-based compensation arrangements for both employees and non-employees.
Compensation costs of equity-classified awards to employees are measured at fair value of the awards at the time when the services are rendered at the grant date and recognised over the periods during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The compensation cost is charged to the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
The compensation cost of equity-classified awards to non-employees is initially measured at fair value of the awards at the time when the services are rendered, and periodically remeasured to fair value until the non-employees performance is complete, and recognised over the periods during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The compensation cost is charged to income with a corresponding increase to share-based payment reserve.
Upon the exercise of the award, consideration received is recognised in equity notes 18 and 19. u Share Capital Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are classified as share capital.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
If the Company reacquires its own equity instruments the cost is deducted from equity and the associated shares are cancelled.
v Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the financial period.
The rights of different classes of shares are the same and therefore economically equivalent.
As such, Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are treated as one class of shares for the earnings per share calculation.
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential Ordinary Shares and the weighted average number of shares assumed to have been issued for no consideration in relation to dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The if-converted method used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share assumes the conversion of convertible securities at the later of the beginning of the reported period or issuance date, if dilutive.
w New Accounting Standards and Interpretations Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Companys assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations which have not been adopted is set out below.
i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: effective for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2013.
Not yet endorsed for use in the EU.
The expected impact is still being assessed by management, but is expected to only impact disclosures of the Group.
ii IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discounted Operations: requires that assets and liabilities of a subsidiary should be classified as held for sale if the Parent is committed to making a plan involving loss of control of the subsidiary, regardless of whether the entity will retain a non-controlling interest after the sale.
Effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010.
It has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
iii IAS 17 Amendment, Leases: amended to require classification of land and buildings leases based on an assessment of transfer of risks and rewards.
iv IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements: amended to confirm that the classification of a convertible instrument is not affected by terms that allow its settlement, at any time, by the issuance of equity instruments at the option of the counterparty.
The following amendments are assessed not to have any impact on the Companys financial statements: i IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. ii IAS 27 Amendment, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. iii IFRS 1 Revised, First time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
82 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued iv IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items provides clarification where differences in practice exists on the designation of inflation as a hedged risk and the treatment of one-sided risks on hedged items.
Effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. v IFRS 2 Amendment Share Based Payments: amended to require subsidiary who receives employee services when another group entity or shareholder grants a cash-settled share-based payment to recognise that transaction in its own accounts.
vi IAS 36 Amendment, Impairment of Assets: amended to clarify that for the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to operating segments as defined in paragraph 5 of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, i. e. before aggregation.
The expected impact is still being assessed by management, but is expected to only impact the disclosures of the Group.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these amendments will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
3 Risk Management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks that arise as a result of its exploration, development, production, and financing activities.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
a Financial Risk Management i Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign exchange risk arises when transactions and recognised assets and liabilities of the Group entity concerned are denominated in a currency that is not the Companys functional currency.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency exposures to the US dollar.
There are no forward exchange rate contracts in place at, or subsequent to, 31 December 2009.
At 31 December 2009, if the Canadian dollar had strengthened weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the loss for the year would have been $535,558 31 December 2008 $122,403 higher lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of Canadian dollar-denominated general and administrative expenses and cash in bank.
At 31 December 2009, if the Russian rouble had strengthened weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the loss for the year would have been $ 556,600 31 December 2008 $ 513,633 higher lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of Russian rouble-denominated cash in bank and monetary assets and liabilities.
At 31 December 2009, if the GB pound sterling had strengthened weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the loss for the year would have been $2,309,160 31 December 2008 $605,907 higher lower, mainly as a result of GB pound sterlingdenominated general and administrative expenses and foreign exchange gains losses on translation of GB pound sterling-denominated long-term loan.
At 31 December 2009, if the Swiss franc had strengthened weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the loss for the year would have been $ 300,238 31 December 2008 $ 299,806 higher lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of Swiss franc-denominated cash at bank.
ii Commodity Price Risk The Company is exposed to commodity price risk to the extent that it sells its entitlement to petroleum, condensate and liquid petroleum gas production on a floating price basis.
The Company may consider partly mitigating this risk in the future.
The table below summarises the impact of increases decreases of the relevant oil condensate LPG benchmark on the Companys loss for the year.
The analysis is based on the assumption that commodity prices had increased decreased by 5% with all other variables held constant: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Brent light crude 70,037 191,850 70,037 191,850 The loss for the year would increase decrease as a result of commodity revenues received.
83 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 Risk Management continued iii Interest Rate Risk The Group had fixed rate longterm debt and fixed rate convertible bonds in the years under review, therefore, it was not exposed to interest rate risk with respect to these fixed rate borrowings.
In October 2007, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company received a longterm loan of $9,450,000 with a variable rate of LIBOR plus 1.6% note 16.
An increase decrease of LIBOR by 1% would result in an increase decrease of the Companys loss for the year by $85,246 31 December 2008 $73,375.
iv Credit Risk All of the Companys production from continuing operations was derived from Russia.
In 2008 and 2009 sales were to a maximum of six customers.
Trade debtors of the Company are subject to internal credit review to minimise the risk of nonpayment.
The Company does not anticipate any default as it transacts with creditworthy counterparties.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting years and management does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counterparties.
The Company is also exposed to credit risk in relation to regular joint venture billings which are typically outstanding for one month and in relation to its cash balances held with the reputable banks.
v Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient funds exist to finance the Companys current operational and investment cash flow requirements.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Companys cash position on the basis of expected cash flow.
The Companys financial liabilities consist of trade and other payables and borrowings.
Trade and other payables are due within 12 months, and borrowings fall due as outlined in notes 15 and 16. b Capital Risk Management The Companys objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including borrowings, trade and other payables, liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale and provisions as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus net debt.
4 Critical Accounting Estimates, Assumptions and Judgements In the process of applying the Companys accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: a Recoverability of Exploration and Evaluation Costs Under the modified full cost method of accounting for E&E costs, certain costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to appropriate cost pools, and are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable value.
84 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 4 Critical Accounting Estimates, Assumptions and Judgements continued Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: i the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period, or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: ii substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: iii exploration for, and evaluation, of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area: and iv sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
This assessment involves judgement as to i the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be determined, and ii future revenues and costs pertaining to any wider cost pool with which the asset in question is associated, and iii the discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purpose of deriving a recoverable value.
Note 10 discloses the carrying amounts of the Groups E&E assets.
Consequently, major uncertainties affect the recoverability of these costs which is dependent on the Group achieving commercial production or the sale of the assets.
Note 23 discloses contingencies relating to title risks.
The Company assessed whether these risks are contingencies or indicators of impairment and concluded that they are contingencies.
b Reserve Estimates Estimates of recoverable quantities of proved and probable reserves include assumptions regarding commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates, production and transportation costs for future cash flows.
It also requires interpretation of complex and difficult geological and geophysical models in order to make an assessment of the size, shape, depth, and quality of reservoirs and their anticipated recoveries.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves can impact asset carrying values and the asset retirement obligation due to changes in expected future cash flows.
Reserves are integral to the amount of depletion charged to the income statement and the calculation of inventory.
The level of estimated commercial reserves is also a key determinant in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the Groups development and production assets has been impaired.
c Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of the fair value of financial instruments.
Fair values have been determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the following methods: i Non-Derivative Financial Instruments These comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the applicable market rate of interest at the reporting date.
ii Derivatives Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through the income statement.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their listed market prices, if available.
If a listed market price is not available, then fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate based on Government bonds.
5 Segment Information The Group has a single class of business which is international exploration, development and production of petroleum oil and natural gas.
The geographical areas are defined by the Company as operating segments in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The Group operates in a number of geographical areas based on location of operations and assets, being Russia, Uganda discontinued, DRC, Kurdistan, Pakistan, Tanzania, Malta, Mali and Oman discontinued.
The Groups reporting segments comprise each separate geographical area in which it operates.
The loss for continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been restated to increase the previously reported net loss attributable to owners of the Company by $4.9 million to $46.2 million.
Oman and Uganda were classified as discontinued operations note 6.
Corporate activities include the financing activities of the Group and is not an operating segment.
There have been no changes to the basis of segmentation or the measurement basis for the segment result since 31 December 2008.
6 Discontinued Operations Uganda On 18 December 2009, Heritage announced that the Company, and its subsidiary Heritage Oil & Gas Limited, had entered into a SPA, with Eni for the sale of its 50% interests in Blocks 1 and 3A in Uganda.
On 17 January 2010, Tullow Uganda Limited exercised its right to pre-empt the sale of the Disposed Assets to Eni on the same terms and conditions as agreed in the SPA entered into between Heritage and Eni.
The transaction was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at the General Meeting on 25 January 2010.
In April 2010, Heritage announced that it had received a letter from the Ugandan Government stating that it supports Heritages sale and transfer of its Ugandan interests and that it will conclude its review of the transaction within eight weeks.
Following this, Heritage expects to receive formal consent and to close the transaction shortly thereafter.
The results of the Uganda operations have been classified as discontinued operations.
The segment was not classified as held for sale or discontinued operations at 31 December 2008 and the comparative income statement has been restated to show the discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
86 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 6 Discontinued Operations continued Expenses incurred by the Company as at 31 December 2009 in respect of this disposal are included within loss on disposal of discontinued operations as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 1,811,214 1,811,214 The following table provides additional information with respect to the assets held for sale in the balance sheet at 31 December 2009.
31 December 2009 $ Assets Non-current assets Intangible exploration assets 158,518,547 158,518,547 Current assets Accounts receivable 4,895,971 4,895,971 Total Assets 163,414,518 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 12,301,188 12,301,188 Current liabilities Provisions 257,539 257,539 Total Liabilities 12,558,727 Net assets 150,855,791 Oman On 7 April 2009, the Company completed the sale of Eagle Energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Heritage, to RAK Petroleum Oman Limited for $28 million, plus a working capital adjustment of $0.4 million.
Eagle Energy held a 10% interest in Block 8, Oman.
The effective date of the transaction is 1 January 2009.
The cash consideration of $28 million and a working capital adjustment of $0.4 million have been received.
The Company acquired Eagle Energy, which had a 10% interest in Block 8 offshore Oman, in 1996.
Block 8 contains the Bukha field which has been producing since 1994 and the West Bukha field which commenced production in February 2009.
The results of operations of Eagle Energy have been classified as losses from discontinued operations.
The following table provides additional information with respect to the amounts included in loss from discontinued operations.
Year ended 31 December 2008 $ Revenue Petroleum and natural gas 1,258,817 Expenses Petroleum and natural gas operating 598,006 Depletion, depreciation and amortisation 264,003 Impairment 3,247,078 4,109,087 2,850,270 87 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6 Discontinued Operations continued The following table provides additional information with respect to the net assets sold as at 7 April 2009.
7 April 2009 $ Assets Non-current assets Intangible exploration assets 1,051,083 Property, plant and equipment 27,448,917 28,500,000 Current assets Accounts receivable 246,783 Inventories 65,282 312,065 Net assets 28,812,065 The loss on disposal of discontinued operations has been derived as follows: 7 April 2009 $ Consideration received Sales proceeds 28,000,000 Working capital adjustments 390,242 Total disposal consideration 28,390,242 Less: Carrying amount of net assets sold 28,812,065 Other expenses 276,940 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 698,763 7 Other Finance Costs Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Interest on long-term debt 656,076 963,965 Interest on convertible bonds 11,023,123 12,640,000 Accretion of convertible debt 4,111,197 4,161,215 Accretion of asset retirement obligation 52,210 22,659 15,842,606 17,787,839 Amount capitalised 11,513,541 6,530,652 Finance costs expensed 4,329,065 11,257,187 Finance costs are capitalised in various balance sheet categories.
8 Income Tax Expense The Group is subject to income taxes in certain territories in which it owns licences.
All of the Groups operating activities are outside of Jersey.
In Oman, the tax rate applicable to the Groups operations is considered to be nil as in this jurisdiction the Group is subject to a production sharing agreement.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised for the benefit of tax deductions and tax losses because realisation of the deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future is not sufficiently likely.
88 88 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 8 Income Tax Expense continued Factors affecting current tax charge for the year: Year ended 31 December 1 Restated 2009 2008 $ $ Net loss before tax 39,346,887 46,159,526 Standard tax rate 0% 0% Tax on loss at standard rate Effect of higher tax rates in foreign jurisdiction 5,912,041 5,436,526 Effective weighted average tax rate 15.03% 11.78% Change in statutory tax rate 603,989 626,190 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,489,022 117,112 Foreign exchange losses gains 685,867 2,055,325 Effect of tax losses not recognised 4,504,897 2,637,899 Current tax charge 2009 2008 $ $ The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Available tax losses and deductions 31,154,451 26,649,554 Deferred tax asset unrecognised 31,154,451 26,649,554 1 See change in accounting policies note 2b 9 Staff Costs The average number of employees including Directors and consultants employed contracted by the Group during the year, analysed by category, was: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 Jersey 3 2 Canada 5 5 Russia 40 40 Europe 27 27 Uganda 48 28 Kurdistan 23 14 Tanzania 10 10 South Africa 8 6 Total 164 132 The aggregate payroll expenses of those employees including Executive Directors and consultants was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Salaries and other short-term benefits 19,759,339 15,573,451 Share-based compensation 5,269,508 12,080,813 Total employee remuneration 25,028,847 27,654,264 Capitalised portion of total remuneration 10,751,590 11,435,283 Key management compensation was: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Salaries and other short-term benefits 6,350,221 4,448,302 Share-based compensation 3,354,833 7,498,703 9,705,054 11,947,005 89 89 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10 Intangible Exploration Assets 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ At 1 January 211,346,037 102,862,754 Effect of movement in exchange rates 130,853 1,448,654 Exercise of third party back-in rights for Miran 6,737,635 Additions 76,370,549 115,136,798 Assets transferred to property, plant and equipment note 11 5,204,861 Disposal of Oman assets 1,051,083 Transfer of assets held for sale Uganda note 6 158,518,547 At 31 December 121,278,468 211,346,037 No assets have been pledged as security.
No exploration asset has been subject to impairment.
The balances at the end of the years are as follows: 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Russia 11,234,809 11,365,662 Oman 551,083 Uganda 130,032,034 DRC 1,587,616 1,506,765 Kurdistan 73,786,329 43,404,350 Pakistan 1,613,000 1,560,330 Malta 11,028,152 8,570,610 Mali 1,994,317 1,225,465 Tanzania 20,034,245 13,129,738 Balance end of year 121,278,468 211,346,037 In many of the countries in which the Group operates, land title systems are not developed to the extent found in many industrial countries and there may be no concept of registered title.
The risk of title disputes associated with Kurdistan, DRC and Malta is described in note 23.
Exercise of Third Party Backin Rights In April 2009, in accordance with the option outlined in the PSC in Kurdistan, the KRG nominated a third party participant in the Miran Block.
The Company remains the operator with a 75% working interest in the Miran Block and has received the pro-rata share of 25% of all past work programme expenditures and the third party will be responsible for paying its share of future costs.
The transaction was completed upon the receipt of approximately $6.7 million in costs incurred by the Group to 31 January 2009.
No gain loss resulted from this transaction and intangible exploration assets reduced by $6.7 million.
The KRG and the Group have agreed to replace the agreement under which they had agreed in principle subject to certain conditions which had not been satisfied to jointly develop a refinery with an agreement under which the Group has agreed to make payments of up to $35 million from future oil and gas sales from the licence.
The carrying value of the corporate jet was written down to $8,064,350 because of reduction of fair value of the corporate jet due to unfavourable economic conditions.
This resulted in an impairment write-down of $2,933,374 recognised in the income statement during the year ended 31 December 2009.
An impairment loss of $749,955 was incurred in 2008, which related to the write-down of a drilling rig.
The carrying value of the petroleum and natural gas interest in Oman was written down to its fair value, resulting in an impairment writedown of $3,247,078 in 2008 due to a decline in oil and gas prices.
12 Other Financial Assets 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Investment in warrants 1,154,225 107,501 Investment in unlisted securities 3,223,000 1,154,225 3,330,501 The investment in Afren Plc warrants is classified as held for trading.
The investment in unlisted securities represents common shares in a private company, SeaDragon, which is classified as available-for-sale.
The estimate of the fair value of the warrants is determined using the Black-Scholes model and relevant market inputs.
The Company owns 805,832 of the unlisted shares of SeaDragon, approximately 15% of the shares outstanding.
At 31 December 2008, these shares were carried at a value of $4 per share, which were valued based on the most recent private placement of SeaDragon on 26 October 2006.
At 30 June 2009, the carrying value of the investments in the shares of SeaDragon was written down to nil following the completion of a financial reorganisation by SeaDragon and the Company does not expect that the cost of the investment will be recoverable in the near future.
This resulted in an impairment write-down of $2,352,825 2008 nil.
91 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 Trade and Other Receivables 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Trade receivables 404 3,087 Other receivables 2,203,303 6,898,424 2,203,707 6,901,511 Trade receivables are due within 30 days from the invoice date.
Joint ventures billings are typically paid within 30 days from the invoice date.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable.
As of 31 December 2009, trade and other receivables of $2,203,707 31 December 2008 $6,901,511 were neither past due nor impaired.
Trade and receivables relate to a number of independent customers and joint ventures partners for whom there is no recent history of default.
15 Trade and Other Payables Due within One Year 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Trade payables 11,329,632 45,714,400 Other payables and accrued liabilities 11,948,398 9,037,368 23,278,030 54,751,768 Trade and other payables and accrued liabilities comprise current amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
92 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 16 Borrowings 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Non-current borrowings Convertible bonds unsecured 115,276,942 141,319,489 Non-current portion of long-term debt 14,276,810 14,290,493 129,553,752 155,609,982 Long-term debt-secured Current 615,892 595,418 Non-current 14,276,810 14,290,493 14,892,702 14,885,911 2007 Convertible Bonds On 16 February 2007, the Company raised $165,000,000 by completing the private placement of convertible bonds.
Issue costs amounted to $6,979,268 resulting in net proceeds of $158,020,732.
The Company issued 1,650, $100,000 unsecured convertible bonds at par, which have a maturity of five years and one day and an annual coupon of 8% payable semi-annually on 17 August and 17 February of each year.
Bondholders have the right to convert the bonds into Ordinary Shares at a price of $4.70 per share at any time.
The number of Ordinary Shares receivable on conversion of the bonds is fixed.
The Company had the right to redeem, in whole or part, the bonds for cash at any time on or before 16 February 2008, at 150% of par value.
This right was not exercised.
The fair value of the host liability component of the bonds net of issue costs was estimated at $140,154,215 on 16 February 2007.
The difference between the $165,000,000 due on maturity and the initial liability component is accreted using the effective interest rate method and is recorded as finance costs.
As the Company call option meant that conversion feature could be settled in cash in accordance with IAS 32 the conversion was treated as a derivative liability.
The fair value of this derivative liability estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model was $17,866,517 at 16 February 2007 and subsequent gains and losses have been recorded in finance income and costs up to the expiry of the Company call option on 17 February 2008.
As a result of the expiry of this option, and hence the cash settlement feature, the Company has reassessed the classification of the conversion option and determined that it qualifies to be treated as equity under IAS 32, being an option to convert a fixed amount of cash for a fixed number of shares.
Therefore, the fair value of the conversion option was reclassified to equity at that date.
Bondholders have a put option requiring the Company to redeem the bonds at par, plus accrued interest, in the event of a change of control of the Company or revocation or surrender of the Zapadno Chumpasskoye licence in Russia the contingent put option.
In the event of a change of control and redemption of the bonds or exercise of the conversion rights, a cash payment of up to $19,700 on each $100,000 bond will be made to a bondholder, the amount of which depends upon the date of redemption and market value of shares at the date of any change of control event.
The contingent put option has been valued separately.
The fair value of the contingent put option has been estimated fide minimis by the Company at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 fide minimis.
During 2009, bondholders with $30.9 million of bonds gave notices of the exercise of 309 bonds.
These bondholders received 6,574,456 Ordinary Shares note 18.
As a result of this conversion, $28,207,021 was transferred to share capital from convertible bonds and accrued liabilities and $5,992,595 was transferred from the equity portion of convertible debt to share capital.
On 18 December 2009, the Company announced it had entered into a SPA for the sale of its 50% interests in Blocks 1 and 3A in Uganda note 6.
The Company also announced that it would consider returning a portion of the disposal proceeds to shareholders through a special dividend on completion of the proposed transaction.
Under the terms and conditions of the bonds, the Company was restricted from making or declaring a dividend or making any other distributions to its shareholders which constitutes on a consolidated basis more than 30% of its earnings for the immediately preceding financial year.
In December 2009, the Company approached bondholders with the proposal to agree to remove this restriction and to make some other changes in the terms and condition of the bonds.
In consideration the Company proposed to pay to those bondholders who vote on the proposal the sum of $2,000.00 per $100,000 of bonds held by such bondholders.
The majority of bondholders voted in favour of this proposal at a meeting on 31 December 2009 and the restriction of making or declaring a dividend or making any other distributions to shareholders has been removed.
On 15 January 2010, the Company paid $2,378,000 to the bondholders who voted.
In accordance with IAS 39, this amendment to the terms and conditions of the bonds does not constitute a redemption and therefore this amount was offset against the convertible bonds liability and will be recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
93 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Borrowings continued Long-Term Debt In January 2005, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company received a sterling denominated loan of 4.5 million to refinance the acquisition of a corporate office.
Interest on the loan was fixed at 6.515% for the first five years and is then variable at a rate of Bank of Scotland base rate plus 1.4%.
The loan, which is secured on the property, is scheduled to be repaid by 240 instalments of capital and interest at monthly intervals, subject to a residual debt at the end of the term of the loan of $3.5 million 1,860,000.
The principal balance outstanding as at 31 December 2009 was $6,573,584 4.1million 31 December 2008 $6,155,882 4.2 million.
In October 2007, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company received a loan of $9,450,000 to refinance the acquisition of the corporate jet.
Interest on the loan is variable at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.6% The loan, which is secured on the corporate jet, is scheduled to be repaid by 19 consecutive quarterly instalments of principal.
Each instalment equals to $117,500 with the final instalment being $7,217,500.
The Corporation provided a corporate guarantee to the lender.
The additional security of $2,454,000 was paid to the bank on 19 January 2010 to maintain the loan to value ratio specified in the loan agreement.
Fair Values At 31 December 2009, the fair values of borrowings are approximately $115.3 million 31 December 2008 $141.3 million for the convertible bonds, $89.2 million 31 December 2008 $25.8 million for the equity convertible element of the convertible bonds and $14.9 million 31 December 2008 $14.9 million for the long-term debt.
17 Provisions The Groups asset retirement obligation results from net ownership interests in petroleum and natural gas assets including well sites and gathering systems.
The Group estimates the total undiscounted inflation-adjusted amount of cash flows required to settle its asset retirement obligation to be approximately $1,331,359, which is expected to be incurred in the period between 2012 and 2024.
A cost pool specific discount rate, related to the liability, of 9% was used to calculate the fair value of the asset retirement obligation in Uganda and Russia 2008 9% and 10% was used in Kurdistan in 2008 2008 10%.
A reconciliation of the asset retirement obligation is provided below: 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ At 1 January 719,808 170,899 Additions 117,250 526,250 Settlement 239,067 Revision due to farm-in, Kurdistan 37,589 Accretion expense note 7 52,210 22,659 Transferred to disposal group held for sale note 6 257,539 At 31 December 355,073 719,808 18 Share Capital The Company was incorporated under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended on 6 February 2008.
The Companys authorised share capital is an unlimited number of Ordinary Shares without par value.
At incorporation, there was one Ordinary Share issued at $42.
On 22 February 2008, a second Ordinary Share was issued at $41.
As part of the Reorganisation described in 2008 Annual Report, the Corporation split its stock such that each existing Common Share of the Corporation was exchanged for either ten Ordinary Shares or ten Exchangeable Shares.
The Corporation was a US dollar functional currency entity as is the Company and therefore the balance of Share Capital was carried forward at its historical amount into the financial statements of the Company.
As such, Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares were treated as one class of shares for loss per share calculation.
Information about movements in share capital issued before the Reorganisation is presented in the table overleaf on the after split basis, i. e. taking into account, the one for ten split.
94 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 18 Share Capital continued Ordinary Shares Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number Amount Number Amount $ $ At 1 January 251,858,374 215,509,055 254,877,480 217,672,243 Issue of shares 25,400,000 205,028,335 2 83 Exchange of Common Shares for Exchangeable Shares 4,431,120 3,784,296 Exchange of Exchangeable Shares for Ordinary Shares 225,000 192,150 1,182,012 1,009,470 Issued on exercise of share options note 21 785,000 2,767,723 230,000 611,555 Issued on conversion of bonds 6,574,456 34,199,616 At 31 December 284,842,830 457,696,879 251,858,374 215,509,055 Special Voting Share Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number Amount Number Amount $ $ At 1 January 1 Issued during the year 1 At 31 December 1 1 Exchangeable Shares of Heritage Oil Corporation Each Carrying One Voting Right in the Company Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number Amount Number Amount $ $ At 1 January 3,249,108 2,774,826 Exchange of Common Shares for Exchangeable Shares 4,431,120 3,784,296 Exchange of Exchangeable Shares for Ordinary Shares 225,000 192,150 1,182,012 1,009,470 At 31 December 3,024,108 2,582,676 3,249,108 2,774,826 Balance of Ordinary Shares of the Company and Exchangeable Shares of HOC at 31 December 287,866,938 460,279,555 255,107,482 218,283,881 On 18 June 2009, the Company completed the placing of 25,400,000 new Ordinary Shares at a price of 5.20 per share for gross proceeds of $216,848,944 132,080,000 to the Company.
19 Reserves A AvailableForSale Investments Revaluation Reserve Changes in the fair value and exchange differences arising on translation of available-for-sale investments such as equities, classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are taken to the available-for-sale investments revaluation reserve note 2k.
Amounts are recognised in the income statement when the associated assets are sold or impaired.
B Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Exchange differences arising on translation of a foreign controlled entity are included in the foreign currency translation reserve note 2s.
The reserve will be recognised in the income statement when the net investment is disposed.
C ShareBased Payments Reserve The share-based payments reserve note 2t, is used to recognise the fair value of options and LTIP awards issued, but not exercised, to employees.
D Equity Portion of Convertible Debt The fair value of the conversion feature of the convertible bonds is classified as equity portion of convertible debt note 2b iii which is included in the reserves in the balance sheet.
95 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Loss Per Share The following table summarises the weighted average Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares used in calculating net earnings per share: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 Weighted average Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares Basic 273,117,649 254,969,021 Diluted 289,643,434 256,257,622 The weighted average number of shares has been adjusted to reflect the effective one for 10 share split that took place as part of the corporate reorganisation described in note 18.
The reconciling item between basic and diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares is the dilutive effect of share options and LTIP awards.
A total of nil options 31 December 2008 22,232,010, nil shares relating to the LTIP 31 December 2008 4,926,429 and 27,042,553 of shares relating to the convertible bonds 31 December 2008 33,617,020 were excluded from the above calculation, as they were anti-dilutive.
However, since the Company has made a loss in each year for the purposes of calculating diluted loss per share, all potential Ordinary Shares have been treated as anti-dilutive.
21 ShareBased Payments Share Options The Company had a share option plan whereby certain directors, officers, employees and consultants of the Group have been granted options to purchase Ordinary Shares.
Under the terms of the plan, options granted normally vest one third immediately and one third in each of the years following the date granted and have a life of five years.
Under the terms of the plan, the LTIP awards will be in the form of full-value shares Performance Shares, subject to performance and time-vesting conditions.
Eligible employees will normally be considered by the Remuneration Committee for an award once each year.
Awards made to the Executive Directors of the Company under the LTIP are called First Awards.
Participants in the First Award, however, will not be entitled to any further awards until the 2011 financial year.
Awards will normally be made during the period of 42 days following the announcement of year end or half-year financial results.
Exceptionally, the First Awards under the plan on 19 June 2008, were permitted to be made within 42 days following approval of the LTIP at the June 2008 AGM.
The plan is intended to apply to Executive Directors and other employees in senior management or leadership roles.
By exception, other higher performing and high potential employees may be considered for awards.
Participants in the LTIP will not be entitled to any further awards under the 2008 Scheme.
The vesting of shares under award are subject to performance conditions agreed by the Remuneration Committee when the award is made.
For the First Awards made in 2008 the performance conditions are the relative TSR capital gain plus dividends performance of the Company versus that of a comparator group of international oil companies and a requirement for the share price of the Company to have increased by 20% over the vesting period of three years.
Furthermore is an additional holding period of one year following the awards vesting.
96 96 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 ShareBased Payments continued The Remuneration Committee, in consultation with executive reward consultants, approved grants of shares to Executive Directors, senior management and other employees in leadership roles under the LTIP.
The maximum annual, individual award for participants who are not Executive Directors is 250% of base package expressed as the face value of the shares.
The First Award to Executive Directors is 1,200% of base package for the CEO and 800% of base package for the CFO.
The First Awards vest after three years provided that the performance conditions are met.
The awards granted to senior management and other employees in leadership roles are in three tranches that vest after three, four and five years respectively, provided that the performance condition is met at that time.
The awards will vest in line with the following schedule: Senior management and other employees in leadership First Awards role awards TSR Performance vs Comparator Group of 18 Companies proportion vesting proportion vesting 3rd place and above 100% of the award 100% of the award 4th place 80% 100% 5th place 50% 100% 6th place 30% 100% 7th place and below 0% 100% 9th place median 0% 100% 10th place and below 0% 0% TSR is measured in comparison to a peer group of 18 oil companies selected based on one of or a combination of size market capitalisation, revenue, turnover, cash expenditure or a combination thereof, area of operations and country of domicile.
The TSR measurement is conducted by independent consultants in discussion with the Remuneration Committee.
Since there are market-related conditions the awards of the shares under LTIP were fair valued using the Monte Carlo model which takes into account the market-based performance conditions which effectively estimate the number of shares expected to vest.
No subsequent adjustment is made to the fair value charge for shares that do not vest in the event that these performance conditions are not met.
Adjustments are, however, made for leavers.
The fair value of the awards is recognised as an employee expense with the corresponding increase in equity.
The total amount to be expensed is spread over the vesting period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares and options.
The table below summarises the main assumptions used to fair value the awards made under the above LTIP and the fair values of the shares granted.
First Awards Award date 19 June 2008 19 June 2008 19 June 2008 19 June 2008 Vesting period 3 3 4 5 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Share price at date of grant 3.45 3.45 3.45 3.45 Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% 40% Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% Fair value as at grant date 1.55 2.49 2.61 2.70 Number of shares granted 3,507,246 473,061 473,061 473,061 The share-based payment recognised with respect to share options and LTIP awards previously granted, in the year ended 31 December 2009 was $5,269,508 out of which $2,062,661 was capitalised.
22 Related Party Transactions During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company incurred transportation costs of $269,522 31 December 2008 $134,978 with respect to the services provided by a company indirectly owned by Mr. Anthony Buckingham, CEO and a Director of the Company.
97 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Commitments and Contingencies Heritages net share of outstanding contractual commitments at 31 December 2009 was estimated at: Less than After Total 1 year 13 years 45 years 5 years $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Long-term debt, including interest 17,160 1,005 9,073 616 6,466 Convertible bonds, including interest 156,849 13,957 142,892 174,009 14,962 151,965 616 6,466 Effect of interest 31,826 14,306 16,442 219 859 Total repayments of borrowings 142,183 656 135,523 397 5,607 Operating leases 7,623 417 635 635 5,936 1,2 Work programme obligations 118,216 60,182 36,634 21,400 Total contractual obligations 125,839 60,599 37,269 22,035 5,936 1 Work programme obligation includes minimum required financial commitments for the Group to fulfil the requirements of licences and production sharing contracts.
2 In April 2009, in accordance with the option outlined in the PSC in Kurdistan, the KRG nominated a third party participant in the Miran Block.
The Company may have a potential residual obligation to satisfy any shortfall in officers and former officers secured real estate borrowings in the event of default, a shortfall on the proceeds from the disposal of the properties and the individuals being unable to repay the balance.
The value of the residual obligation was estimated as insignificant.
In many of the countries in which the Group operates, land title systems are not developed to the extent found in many industrial countries and there may be no concept of registered title.
Although the Group believes that it has title to its oil and gas properties, it cannot control or completely protect itself against the risk of title disputes or challenges.
There can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third parties against the Groups properties will not be asserted at a future date.
The Group received a letter from the Iraq Ministry of Oil dated 17 December 2007 stating that the PSC signed with the KRG without the prior approval of the Iraqi Government is considered to be void by the Iraqi Government as they have stated it violates the prevailing Iraqi law.
The Directors believe that the PSC is valid and effective pursuant to the applicable laws.
In addition, the DRC work programme pursuant to the PSC cannot be commenced prior to the grant of a Presidential Decree from the DRC Government.
There can be no assurance that final approval or ratification will ever be received in respect of the PSC or that the pre-agreed fiscal terms will not be re-negotiated at a later date by the DRC Government.
The Directors are confident that the title will be confirmed.
Furthermore, the Group received a letter from the chairman of the Management Committee of the National Oil Company of Libya dated 28 February 2008 stating that the Block 7 licence area in Malta lies within the Libyan continental shelf and a portion of this area has already been licenced to Sirte Oil Company.
This letter also demands that the Group refrain from any activities over, or concerning, the Block 7 licence area and asserts the Libyan Governments right to invoke Libyan and international law to protect its rights in the Block 7 licence area.
The Directors believe that the Libyan Governments claims are unfounded.
24 Noncash Investing and Financing Activities Supplementary Information Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 $ $ Capitalised portion of share-based compensation 2,062,661 4,639,169 Non-cash property, plant and equipment additions relating to the capitalised portion of share-based compensation 2,062,661 4,639,169 25 Subsequent Events On 18 December 2009, Heritage announced that the Company, and its subsidiary Heritage Oil & Gas Limited, had entered into a SPA, with Eni for the sale of its 50% interests in Blocks 1 and 3A in Uganda.
