Governance and financial results 129 Shareholder information 2010 financial calendar Share listings London 17 March 2009 preliminary results and final dividend announced The Companys Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Official List of the 14 April 2009 final dividend ex-dividend date London Stock Exchange.
They are listed under EPIC HIK, SEDOL B0LCW08 GB and ISIN GB00B0LCW083.
16 April 2009 final dividend record date Further information on this market, its trading systems and current 13 May Annual General Meeting trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC shares can be found on the London Stock Exchange website www.
27 May 2009 final dividend paid to shareholders 26 August 2010 interim results and interim dividend announced Global Depository Receipts The Company also has listed Global Depository Receipts GDRs on 8 September 2010 interim dividend ex-dividend date NasdaqDubai.
They are listed under EPIC HIK and ISIN US4312882081.
10 September 2010 interim dividend record date Further information on NasdaqDubai, its trading systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC GDRs can be found on the website 14 October 2010 interim dividend paid to shareholders www.
Provisional dates American Depository Receipt ADRs Shareholding enquiries Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC has an ADR programme for which Bank Enquiries or information concerning existing shareholdings should be of New York Mellon acts as Depositary.
One ADR equates to 2 Hikma directed to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars either: Ordinary Shares.
ADRs are traded as a level 1 Over-the-Counter OTC programme under the symbol HKMPY.
Enquiries should be made to: in writing to Shareholder Services, Capita Registrars, The Registry, BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 by telephone from within the UK on 0870 162 3100: Telephone: 1 201 680 6825 by telephone from outside the UK on 44 208 639 2157: or Telephone: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll-free within the US Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com through the website www.
Shareholder fraud In addition to general enquiries for example changes of address, The Financial Services Authority has issued a number of warnings to change of name, loss of a share certificate the Registrar can also assist shareholders regarding boiler room scams.
Over the last year many with the following: companies have become aware that shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are Mandating the dividend payments typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, Shareholders who currently receive their dividend by cheque can request offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk a dividend mandate form from the registrar and have their dividend paid shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known direct into their bank account on the same day as the dividend is paid.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely The tax voucher is sent direct to the shareholders registered address.
Shareholders are advised to be very cautious of unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company International Payment System reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: If you are an overseas shareholder the Registrar is now able to pay dividends in several foreign currencies for an administrative charge of Obtain the correct name of the person and organisations.
5.00, which is deducted from the payment.
Contact the registrar for further information.
Check they are authorised by the FSA by looking the firm up on www.
Dividend Payments Currency elections Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visit The Company declares dividends in US Dollar.
can opt to receive the dividend in Pounds Sterling.
The Company will no longer be distributing currency election forms for each dividend, If the caller persists, hang up.
so if you wish to change the currency in which you receive your dividend Details of the share dealing facilities sponsored by the Company are you must write to the registrars at the above address.
included in Company mailings and are on the Company website.
The Companys website is www.
com and the registered Website office is 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW.
Telephone number Press releases, the share price and other information on the Group are 44 207 399 2760. available on the Companys website www.
130 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Shareholder information continued Articles of Association The Articles of Association of the Company the Articles are the internal rules by which the Company is governed, covering matters such as the removal and appointment of directors and the powers and rights of shareholders.
The Articles can only be changed by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company is proposing to adopt new Articles to take account of: changes to the law and practice since the existing Articles were last updated: the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009: the implementation on 1 October 2009 of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006..
The principal changes introduced in the new Articles are summarised in Appendix A of the Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this document.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have not been noted in Appendix A.
The new Articles, showing all the changes from the existing Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office 13 Hanover Square, London W1H 1SW during normal business hours on Monday to Friday.
They are also available at the offices of Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA during normal business hours on Monday to Friday, in each case from the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting until the close of the Annual General Meeting Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
They will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
