Notes to the financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant of compliance with IFRS risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts The Group and Company financial statements of HMV Group plc of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the for the period ended 25 April 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 June 2009, and the balance sheets measurement and impairment of goodwill, the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations, the measurement of were signed on the Boards behalf by Simon Fox and Neil Bright.
impairment of property, plant and equipment, the impairment HMV Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys Ordinary Shares of the investment in joint ventures and the measurement of the deferred tax asset.
The Group determines whether goodwill is are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European choosing a suitable discount rate see Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Note 16.
The principal accounting policies adopted defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future by the Group and the Company are set out below.
changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the The Company has taken advantage of the exemption expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to rate see Note 33.
Measurement of the impairment of property, publish its individual income statement and related notes.
plant and equipment requires the estimation of the assets recoverable amount and selection of a suitable discount rate see Note 15.
Measurement of the deferred tax asset requires an 2.
Accounting policies assessment of the likely timing and level of future taxable profits Basis of preparation see Note 11.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its For the Company, key areas of estimation uncertainty are subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately those listed above for the Group and the measurement and preceding 30 April each year.
Consequently, the financial impairment of investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended see Notes 17 and 18.
25 April 2009, whilst the comparative period covered the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2008.
The financial statements are Basis of consolidation prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intra-group transactions, out below.
balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during a and are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million except where period are included from the date that effective control passed otherwise indicated.
They are prepared on the historical cost or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 51
