Notes to the financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant of compliance with IFRS risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts The Group and Company financial statements of HMV Group plc of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the for the period ended 25 April 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 June 2009, and the balance sheets measurement and impairment of goodwill, the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations, the measurement of were signed on the Boards behalf by Simon Fox and Neil Bright.
impairment of property, plant and equipment, the impairment HMV Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys Ordinary Shares of the investment in joint ventures and the measurement of the deferred tax asset.
The Group determines whether goodwill is are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European choosing a suitable discount rate see Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Note 16.
The principal accounting policies adopted defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future by the Group and the Company are set out below.
changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the The Company has taken advantage of the exemption expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to rate see Note 33.
Measurement of the impairment of property, publish its individual income statement and related notes.
plant and equipment requires the estimation of the assets recoverable amount and selection of a suitable discount rate see Note 15.
Measurement of the deferred tax asset requires an 2.
Accounting policies assessment of the likely timing and level of future taxable profits Basis of preparation see Note 11.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its For the Company, key areas of estimation uncertainty are subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately those listed above for the Group and the measurement and preceding 30 April each year.
Consequently, the financial impairment of investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended see Notes 17 and 18.
25 April 2009, whilst the comparative period covered the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2008.
The financial statements are Basis of consolidation prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intra-group transactions, out below.
balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during a and are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million except where period are included from the date that effective control passed otherwise indicated.
They are prepared on the historical cost or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 51 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded Interests in joint ventures at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transactions.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement with other parties Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies to undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
are retranslated into Sterling at period end rates.
The resulting The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture company foreign exchange differences are dealt with in the determination a jointly controlled entity using the equity method of accounting.
of profit loss for the period.
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is On consolidation, average exchange rates are used to carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes translate the results of overseas companies and businesses, and in the Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received the assets and liabilities of overseas companies and businesses and less any impairment in value.
The Group income statement are translated into Sterling at period-end rates.
Differences on reflects the share of the jointly controlled entitys results after tax.
translation are recognised as a separate equity reserve, which The Group statement of recognised income and expense reflects was set to zero on transition to IFRS.
On disposal of an overseas the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the company or business, the cumulative exchange differences for jointly controlled entity outside profit and loss.
that entity are recognised in the income statement as part of the Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a jointly controlled profit or loss on disposal.
entity, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the entitys Exceptional items identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the in the carrying value of the jointly controlled entity and is not income statement those material items of income and expense amortised.
which, because of the nature or expected infrequency of the The accounting reference date of the jointly controlled entity events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow is 31 July therefore additional financial statements are prepared shareholders to better understand the elements of financial to the Groups balance sheet date for consolidation purposes.
performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
policies used into line with those of the Group.
The Group ceases Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit include to use the equity method on the date from which it no longer has but are not limited to those costs associated with integrating joint control over, or significant influence in, the joint venture.
a newly acquired business, impairment losses, reversal of impairments and costs associated with restructuring the business.
Investments in subsidiaries In its separate financial statements, the Company recognises Goodwill its investments in subsidiaries at cost less impairments On transition to IFRS, the Group utilised the exemption available booked.
Income is recognised from these investments only in in IFRS 1 whereby IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been relation to distributions received from post-acquisition profits.
applied retrospectively to past business combinations.
Goodwill Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are arising on acquisitions prior to 25 April 1998 was set off directly deducted from the cost of the investment.
This goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance sheet on the transition to IFRS.
Furthermore, it will not be transferred to the income statement if the subsidiary is disposed Revenue Revenue represents the value of goods supplied, less discounts of or if the investment in the subsidiary becomes impaired.
given, and is recognised when goods are delivered and title has On transition to IFRS, this goodwill was frozen at its carrying value passed.
It also includes commission earned on ticket sales and on the date of transition, 25 April 2004, subject to impairment similar activities.
Revenue excludes value added tax VAT and testing at that date.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since similar sales-related taxes.
the Groups transition to IFRS is also capitalised, classified as an Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to asset on the balance sheet and is not amortised.
Goodwill is the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest calculated as the excess of the cost of the business combination rate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable payment is established.
Rental income from sublet properties assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
All capitalised goodwill is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events the sublease.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
HMV Group plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there are Property, plant and equipment indicators that an asset may be impaired.
Assets are grouped for The capitalised cost of property, plant and equipment includes impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which only those costs that are directly attributable to bringing an asset there are identifiable cash inflows that are largely independent of to its working condition for its intended use.
the cash inflows of other groups of assets cash-generating units.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated If any indicator of impairment exists, or when annual impairment on cost, at rates estimated to write off the cost, less the estimated testing is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets residual value, of the relevant assets by equal annual amounts recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs over their estimated useful lives.
to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash inflows expected to be derived from the asset.
The annual rates used are: Where the asset does not generate cash inflows that are Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life and independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the period of the lease cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is estimated.
1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 to 33 % 3 Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised for material impairment in periods if events or changes in in the income statement.
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there is an indication at the reporting date that previously Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and where recognised impairment losses no longer exist or may have adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
decreased, the recoverable amount is again estimated.
To the extent that the recoverable amount has increased, the previously Leased assets recognised impairment loss is reversed.
An impairment loss in In respect of property operating leases, benefits received and respect of goodwill is not reversed.
receivable as an incentive to sign a lease, such as rent-free periods, premiums payable and capital contributions, are spread Inventories on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
All other operating Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable lease payments are charged directly to the income statement on value on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is based a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group has a number on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred of lease agreements in which the rent payable is contingent on to disposal.
revenue, which is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group Taxation substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current assets, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be corresponding liability being recognised for the lower of the fair recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the balance sheet date.
reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all temporary differences and deferred income tax assets are Intangible assets recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will Intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised over their be available against which the deductible temporary differences useful life unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax indefinite life.
Intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the impairment if there is any indication that the carrying value may extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events be utilised.
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 53 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary statement of recognised income and expense.
Other income differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, and expenses associated with the defined benefit scheme are and joint ventures as the Group has determined that undistributed recognised in the income statement.
profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The defined benefit scheme provides benefits to a number of Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at Group companies.
There is no agreement or policy for allocating the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset a share of the defined benefit obligation to each participating is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that entity.
Consequently, the Company, as sponsoring employer have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet of the defined benefit scheme, recognises the net pension date, and are not discounted.
The other participating members Taxation is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to of the scheme account for their relevant pension costs on items that are themselves charged or credited directly to equity, a defined contribution basis.
otherwise it is recognised in the income statement.
Contributions to the defined contribution scheme are Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a charged in the income statement as they become payable legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees granted Cash and cash equivalents on or after 7 November 2002, which had not vested by 1 January Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand 2005, is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits less employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is bank overdrafts that are payable on demand.
determined by using an appropriate pricing model.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative Interest-bearing loans and borrowings expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised period has expired and managements best estimate of the at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are achievement or otherwise of non-market performance conditions, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective and hence the number of equity instruments that will ultimately interest rate method.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with Provisions a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised for A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or awards that do not ultimately vest.
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to Treasury Shares settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash HMV Group plc shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects the Trust are classified in shareholders equity as other reserve own risks specific to the liability.
shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the financial statements on the purchase, sale, issue or Pension costs cancellation of equity shares.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes, the funds of which are held in Derivative financial instruments separate, trustee administered funds.
The Group may from time to time use derivative financial The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit instruments for hedging purposes, including forward foreign scheme is determined using the projected unit credit method, exchange contracts.
The Group does not enter into derivative with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
balance sheet represents the present value of the liabilities of the The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their defined benefit scheme as reduced by the market value of the quoted market value at the balance sheet date, being the present defined benefit scheme assets.
value of the quoted forward price.
HMV Group plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued The Group has not adopted early the requirements of the following accounting standards and interpretations, which have Hedge accounting an effective date shown in brackets after the date of these Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that financial statements: are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, to equity are transferred to the income statement when hedged effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. transactions affect profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an investment purchase occurs.
in a subsidiary, joint-controlled entity or associate Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 1 January 2009 instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time any cumulative Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment vesting gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
IFRS 3 R Business Combinations revised 2008 If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 1 July 2009 cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to the income statement.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving disclosures about financial Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments instruments 1 January 2009 that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 income statement as they arise.
1 January 2009 Customer loyalty schemes IAS 23 Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 The fair value of loyalty points awarded is deferred until the IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements awards are redeemed, after adjustment for the number of points revised 2008 1 July 2009 expected never to be redeemed.
Fair value is determined by reference to the value for which the points can be redeemed.
IAS 32 and IAS 1 Financial Instruments Puttable at Fair Value and Obligations Arising on Liquidation 1 January 2009 New accounting standards IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items 1 January 2009 The Group and the Company have adopted the following new accounting standards, amendments to accounting standards and Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives interpretations, which are either mandatory for the first time for June 2009 the financial year ending 25 April 2009 or have been adopted Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of early as appropriate.
Financial Assets 1 July 2008 IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for periods beginning Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of on or after 1 January 2009.
This new accounting standard Financial Assets: effective date and transition 1 July 2008 had no effect on reported income or net assets and liabilities.
The required disclosures based on information presented to IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate the Board are given in Note 3.
There have been no changes 1 January 2009 to the reportable segments as a result of this accounting IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation standard.
1 October 2008 The following have been adopted but have no material impact IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners on the Group or Company: 1 July 2009 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, effective for IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009 periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, subject to endorsement in the EU.
Improvements to IFRS Various effective dates The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The effective dates stated are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU endorsement mechanism.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 55
