Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2009 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 46 Albemarle Street, London W1S 4JL, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has three operating mines Ares, Arcata and Pallancata and a plant Selene used to treat ore from the Pallancata mine, located in southern Peru, one operating mine San Jos located in Argentina and one operating mine Moris located in Mexico.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico, Chile and Canada at various stages of development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 March 2010.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December 2009 2008 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation % % Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A. formerly Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation Holding company Argentina 100 100 Hochschild Mining Peru S. A. formerly Hochschild Mining Peru Corporation Holding company Peru 100 100 Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. formerly Hochschild Mining Mexico Corporation Holding company Mexico 100 100 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales 100 100 Production of gold Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. & silver Peru 100 100 Production of gold Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
& silver Peru 96.8 96.8 Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 1 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy Not-for-profit Peru Pallancata Holding S. A. C. formerly Compaa Minera Coriorco S. A.
Holding company Peru 100 100 Production of gold Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. & silver Peru 60 60 68 Accounts 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION CONTINUED Equity interest at 31 December 2009 2008 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation % % MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. formerly Minera MH Chile Ltda.. Exploration office Chile 100 100 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Production of gold Minas Santa Mara fide Moris, S. A. fide C. V. & silver Mexico 100 70 Moris Holding, S. A. fide C. V. Holding company Mexico 100 100 Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Service company Mexico 100 100 Hochschild Mining US Inc. formerly MH Nevada, Inc. Subsidiary USA 100 100 Production of gold Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
& silver Argentina 51 51 Hochschild Mining Chile S. A.
Holding company Chile 100 100 HMX, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Inmaculada Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 Liam Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 2 0848818 BC Ltd Subsidiary Canada 100 2 Southwestern Gold Bermuda Limited Holding company Bermuda 100 2 Southwest Mining Inc. Subsidiary Mauritius 100 2 Southwest Minerals Inc. Subsidiary Mauritius 100 2 Southwestern Gold China Inc. Subsidiary Bahamas 100 2 Cerro Mining Corp. Subsidiary Bahamas 100 2 Southwest Minerals Yunnan Inc. Subsidiary China 100 2 MInera del Suroeste S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Ltd. Subsidiary England & Wales 100 100 Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 50 Minera Minasnioc S. A. C. Subsidiary Peru 100 100 1 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy is an unincorporated entity, which receives donations from Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. and spends this money on the community and social welfare activities around its mine units at the direction of Ares.
As a result, the Group consolidates this entity.
2 Companies incorporated due to the purchase of shares of Southwestern Resources Group on 21 May 2009.
69 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and with the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups Financial Statements are also consistent with IFRS issued by the IASB.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of adoption of new and amended accounting standards refer to note 2 c and the retrospective restatement of the depreciation calculation refer to note 3.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain classes of property, plant and equipment which were revalued at 1 January 2003 to determine the deemed cost refer to note 2 f, available-for-sale financial instruments and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars $ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Standards, interpretations and amendment to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised January 2008, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring after this date that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised January 2008, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 27 requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will they give rise to gains or losses.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by partially-owned subsidiaries as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This clarifies that a dividend payable should be recognised when the dividend is appropriately authorised and is no longer at the discretion of the entity.
It also clarifies that an entity should measure the dividend payable at the fair value of the net assets to be distributed and that an entity should recognise the difference between the dividend paid and the carrying amount of the net assets distributed in profit or loss.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment addresses the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
It clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the above standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Other standards and interpretations not included above are not expected to have an impact on the financial statements.
b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates are contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
The key areas are summarised below.
70 Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Determination of functional currencies note 2 e. Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 f. Determination of ore reserves and resources note 2 h. Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges notes 2 i, l, v and note 16 and 17.
Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 p and 27.
Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities note 35.
Judgement in deciding if a company is a subsidiary of the Group note 2 d. c Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of new and amended standards.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group concluded that the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 were different in comparison with 2008 segments reported.
The new segments are disclosed in note 4.
IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group has adopted the standard on a prospective basis.
It did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The most important change was the obligation to include the statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 32 and IAS 1 Amendment Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Amendment Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
2008 Annual Improvements to IFRS, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
These amendments had no impact on the financial performance of the Group as they only affected the disclosure of financial information.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The main change was related to the disclosure of hierarchy of financial instruments at fair value.
It is included in note 38 d. IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
71 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers, applicable to assets transferred on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 39 & IFRS 7 Amendments Reclassification of Financial Instruments, applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IAS 39 Amendment Reclassification of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition, applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 9 & IAS 39 Amendments Embedded Derivatives, applicable for periods ending on or after 30 June 2009.
d Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position, performance and cash flows as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
However, minority shareholders rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of net assets of the entity acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting periods as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Minority shareholders primarily represent the interests in Minera Santa Cruz, Compaa Minera Arcata and Minera Suyamarca not held by the Company.
In the event of a purchase of minority shareholders interest when the Group holds the majority of shares of a subsidiary, any excess of the consideration given over the Groups share of net assets is recorded in retained earnings within equity.
e Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the average exchange rate for income statement items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The source of uncertainty is related to the change of exchange rates in the future.
This change could affect the Groups results.
72 Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units of production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 to 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed where incurred.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for those assets where construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009 and continues to expense borrowing costs related to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009.
For borrowings associated with a specific asset, the actual rate on that borrowing is used.
Otherwise, a weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
The Group capitalises the borrowings cost related to qualifying assets with a value of US$1,000,000 or more, considering that the substantial period of time to be ready is 6 or more months.
Mining properties and development costs Expenditure on exploration of mining properties is expensed during the exploration phase of a project and capitalised during their development phase when incurred.
Purchased mining properties are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Costs associated with developments of mining properties are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
Construction in progress and capital advances Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
73 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED g Evaluation and exploration assets Evaluation and exploration expenses shall be capitalised when the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured.
For this purpose, the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured when any of the following conditions are met: The Board authorises management to conduct the feasibility study of a project: Mine-site exploration is being conducted to convert resources into reserves: or Mine-site exploration is being conducted to confirm resources.
Projects in the development phase Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised as assets from the date that the Board authorises the management to conduct a feasibility study.
Identification of resources Costs incurred in converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources of which reserves are a component are capitalised as incurred.
Costs incurred in identifying inferred resources are expensed as incurred.
h Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to have the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units of production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
i Investment in associates The Groups investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised or separately tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The share of profit of associates is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and therefore is profit after tax and minority interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
j Interest in a joint venture The Group has an interest in a joint venture which is a jointly controlled entity, whereby the venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture using the equity method of accounting and presents its aggregate share of the profit or loss of joint ventures on the face of its income statement.
The investment is presented as non-current assets on the face of the statement of financial position.
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
74 Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED k Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is included in intangible assets and represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes.
The allocation is made to those cashgenerating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Right to use energy transmission line Transmission line represents the investment made by the Group during the period of its use.
This is an asset with a finite useful life that is amortised applying the units of production method.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
l Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
The assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms-length basis.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
m Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production.
When the production process takes a substantial period of time, borrowing costs are included in the production cost.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
75 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED n Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable which on average, do not exceed 30 days.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
o Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Excess to par value of shares received upon issuance of shares is classified as share premium.
p Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event.
It is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure costs as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at year-end represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future rehabilitation costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the statement of financial position by adjusting the rehabilitation asset and liability.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of rehabilitation provisions exceeds the carrying value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expenses.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian Legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
Mexican Law also requires Mexican companies to provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 10% of the profit of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses refer to note 11 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Share based payments The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each accounting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Uncertainties in estimating the award include potential changes in the TSR, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
q Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial information unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
76 Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED r Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dor and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Concentrate is sold directly to customers.
Dor bars are sent to a third party for further refining into gold and silver which is then sold.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of concentrate and gold and silver from dor is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to the customer.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on the international exchanges.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Income from services provided to related parties note 31 is recognised in income when services are provided.
s Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
t Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the statement of financial position date could be impacted.
Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could limit the ability of the Group to obtain tax deductions in future periods.
77 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED u Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
v Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as loans or borrowings, receivables, payables, financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss, availablefor-sale financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge refer to note 2 aa, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it.
The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require delivery and receipt of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract which is not measured at fair value through profit and loss when the analysis shows that the economic characteristics and risks of embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract.
Gains or losses on financial assets held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
78 Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the statement of financial position date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, through the use of an allowance account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either: a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, a new asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset, is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
A financial liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
79 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED w Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash within three months or less and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
y Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: Impairments of assets, including goodwill, assets held for sale, property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets.
Gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment.
Fair value gains or losses arising on financial instruments not held in the normal course of trading.
Any gain or loss resulting from any restructuring within the Group.
The related tax impact of the above items.
z Comparatives Where applicable, certain comparatives have been reclassified to present them in a comparable manner to the current periods figures.
aa Hedging The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its interest rate risks.
These derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, these hedges are classified as cash flow hedges as they are hedging the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction.
At the inception of a hedging relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument's effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item's fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine their effectiveness in the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Where the interest rate swaps meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
80 Accounts 3 RETROSPECTIVE RESTATEMENT FOR CHANGE TO DEPRECIATION CALCULATION The Group applies the unit of production depreciation methodology in the calculation of depreciation of its mine assets.
When this approach was adopted in connection with the Group's listing during 2006, as the future capital expenditure associated with developing the undeveloped reserves and resources was not significant to the calculation, these depreciation calculations included only the future costs of converting resources to reserves.
Since the listing, the Group has extended both the life, and throughput, of certain mines, and has opened, and subsequently expanded, two new mines.
These actions, which were completed in 2009, have led to an increase in the amount of undeveloped resources, and a disproportionate increase in the associated future capital expenditure required to develop and access these reserves and resources.
As a result of these changed circumstances, during the year management identified that the existing depreciation calculations were no longer effectively matching costs to production in the manner in which the unit of production approach is designed.
Consequently, the depreciation calculations were revised to include all the future capital expenditure associated with developing these reserves and resources.
Management believes that this revision will enable improved matching of costs to production in the relevant period, and thereby will better reflect the Group's economic performance.
As required by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, the Group has retrospectively applied this revised depreciation methodology by adjusting the comparative financial information contained in these financial statements.
The effect of this prior year, non-cash restatement on each of the primary financial statements is as follows: Reported Restated Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Effect of 2008 2008 restatement Pre-exceptional consolidated income statement US$000 US$000 US$000 Continuing operations Cost of sales 240,441 256,608 16,167 Gross profit 193,338 177,171 16,167 Profit from continuing operations before net finance income cost, foreign exchange loss gain and income tax 86,268 70,101 16,167 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 61,442 45,275 16,167 Income tax expense 29,762 24,767 4,995 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 31,680 20,508 11,172 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 24,643 15,782 8,861 Minority shareholders 7,037 4,726 2,311 Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations and for the year expressed in US dollars per share 0.08 0.05 0.03 Reported Restated Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Effect of 2008 2008 restatement Consolidated income statement US$000 US$000 US$000 Continuing operations Cost of sales 240,675 256,842 16,167 Gross profit 193,104 176,937 16,167 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 34,706 30,212 4,494 Profit from continuing operations before net finance income cost, foreign exchange loss gain and income tax 48,400 36,727 11,673 Profit loss from continuing operations before income tax 9,400 2,273 11,673 Income tax expense 22,914 19,267 3,647 Loss for the year from continuing operations 13,514 21,540 8,026 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 19,003 24,718 5,715 Minority shareholders 5,489 3,178 2,311 Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations and for the year expressed in US dollars per share 0.06 0.08 0.02 81 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 RETROSPECTIVE RESTATEMENT FOR CHANGE TO DEPRECIATION CALCULATION CONTINUED Reported Restated As at As at 31 December 31 December Effect of 2008 2008 restatement Consolidated statement of financial position US$000 US$000 US$000 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment including evaluation and exploration assets 488,984 461,291 27,693 Deferred income tax assets 20,795 21,811 1,016 Total non-current assets 705,366 678,689 26,677 Current assets Inventories 49,220 51,855 2,635 Total current assets 309,132 311,767 2,635 Total assets 1,014,498 990,456 24,042 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Parent Retained earnings 182,612 167,767 14,845 Minority interest 68,843 66,293 2,550 Total equity 543,018 525,623 17,395 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 15,839 9,192 6,647 Total equity and liabilities 1,014,498 990,456 24,042 Reported Restated As at As at 1 January 1 January Effect of 2008 2008 restatement Consolidated statement of financial position US$000 US$000 US$000 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment including evaluation and exploration assets 263,062 249,061 14,001 Deferred income tax assets 22,400 26,162 3,762 Total non-current assets 329,592 319,353 10,239 Current assets Inventories 47,012 47,628 616 Total current assets 491,660 492,276 616 Total assets 821,252 811,629 9,623 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Parent Retained earnings 229,202 220,072 9,130 Minority interest 50,008 49,769 239 Total equity 616,048 606,679 9,369 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 9,091 8,837 254 Total equity and liabilities 821,252 811,629 9,623 82 Accounts 3 RETROSPECTIVE RESTATEMENT FOR CHANGE TO DEPRECIATION CALCULATION CONTINUED Reported Restated Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Effect of 2008 2008 restatement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income US$000 US$000 US$000 Loss for the year 13,514 21,540 8,026 Total comprehensive income for the year 58,376 66,402 8,026 Total comprehensive income attributable to Equity shareholders of the Company 63,658 69,373 5,715 Minority interest 5,282 2,971 2,311 This restatement was non-cash in nature, and therefore had no impact on the consolidated cash flow statement.
The impact on the Consolidated statement of changes in equity is set out in that statement.
4 SEGMENT REPORTING The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The Group has a number of activities that exist solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to that used for third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between segments.
Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
For internal reporting purposes, management takes decisions and assesses the performance of the Group through consideration of the following reporting segments: Operating unit Ares, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver Operating unit Arcata, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate Operating unit Selene, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate the Selene mine was closed in June 2009.
The Selene plant continues to process the ore from Pallancata.
Operating unit Pallancata, which generates revenue from the sale of concentrate Operating unit San Jos, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate Operating unit Moris, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver Exploration, which explores and evaluates areas of interest in brownfield and greenfield sites with the purpose of extending the life of mine of existing operations and to assess the feasibility of new mines.
The exploration segment includes expenses reflected through profit and loss and capitalised as assets.
The Groups administration, financing, other activities including other income and expense, and income taxes are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment information is consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Management evaluates the financial information based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Group measures the performance of its operating units by the segment profit or loss that comprises gross profit and selling expenses.
Segment assets include the items that could be allocated directly to the segment.
2 The profit for the operating segments Ares, Arcata, Selene and Pallancata includes an exceptional item in cost of sales of US$6,918,000 refer to note 7 1.
3 Includes US$11,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
4 Includes the goodwill of San Jos unit amounting to US$2,091,000.
2 The profit for the operating segments Ares, Arcata, Selene and Pallancata includes an exceptional item in cost of sales of US$234,000 refer to note 7 1.
3 The amounts presented have been restated due to the retrospective restatement for change to depreciation calculation disclosed in note 3.
4 Includes US$111,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
5 Includes the goodwill of San Jos unit amounting to US$2,091,000.
85 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED b Geographical segment reporting Based on the entity-wide disclosure stated in IFRS 8, the revenue for the period based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 130,126 130,631 Peru 159,339 125,171 Mexico 15 Belgium 6,011 Canada 98,960 50,465 Germany 84,121 54,570 Switzerland 57,549 66,883 United Kingdom 1,925 Korea 7,721 Chile 33 Total 539,741 433,779 Inter-segment Peru 1,161 25,164 Mexico 1,866 4,455 Total 542,768 463,398 In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues as detailed in the following table: Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 US$000 % Revenue Segment US$000 % Revenue Segment Ares, Ares, Arcata, Arcata, Selene, Selene, International Commodities Inc 61,979 11% Moris 18,729 4% Moris Arcata, Arcata, Selene, Selene, Teck Metals Ltd. formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd 98,960 18% Pallancata 50,465 12% Pallancata Arcata, Pallancata, Arcata, Consorcio Minero S. A.
155,182 29% San Jos 87,281 20% Pallancata Selene, Selene, Pallancata, Pallancata, San Jos, Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 84,121 16% San Jos 54,570 13% Ares 86 Accounts 4 SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED Based on the entity-wide disclosure requirements set out in IFRS 8, non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and income tax assets, were allocated based on the geographical area where the assets are located as follows: As at 31 December Restated 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Peru 242,170 228,466 Argentina 200,384 186,646 Mexico 49,328 47,979 Chile 54 59 Canada 24,902 USA 26 United Kingdom 451,038 136,802 Total non-current segment assets 967,876 599,978 Available-for-sale financial assets 19,181 17,794 Trade and other receivables 3,150 38,304 Deferred income tax assets 15,852 21,811 Income tax receivable 1,302 802 Total non-current assets 1,007,361 678,689 5 ACQUISITIONS a Acquisition of subsidiaries Southwestern Resources Corporation On 21 May 2009, the Group acquired a 100% interest of Southwestern Resources Corp.
Southwestern, a mineral exploration company with a number of gold, silver and base metals projects adjacent to the Groups operations in southern Peru.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
As at 30 June 2009, net assets were determined on a provisional basis.
During the second half of 2009 the determination of fair value has been finalised and adjustments have been made to the balances previously reported.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the negative goodwill arising were as follows: Provisional Adjustments Updated fair fair value to fair value value US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 5,349 5,349 Available-for-sale financial assets 949 949 Investment in associate 1,669 1,308 361 Property, plant and equipment 24,266 24,266 Other assets 360 160 200 Deferred income tax liability 2,959 704 3,663 Other current liabilities 581 59 522 Net assets 29,053 2,113 26,940 Negative goodwill arising on acquisition refer to note 12 9,807 2,113 7,694 Total acquisition cost 19,246 19,246 The total acquisition cost of US$19,246,000 comprised a cash payment of US$19,056,000 and cost of US$190,000 directly attributable to the acquisition.
The revenue of the entity, if the acquisition date was the start of the period, was nil.
The loss of the entity, if the acquisition date was the start of the period, was US$75,073.
87 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED b Acquisition of associates Lake Shore Gold Corp. During 2008, the Group acquired a 39.99% interest in Lake Shore Gold Corp. Lake Shore Gold, a gold mining company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange for a total consideration of US$163,997,000.
The acquisition was made in the following tranches: 19.99% acquired through a share issue on 19 February 2008 for US$64,806,000.
15.00% acquired through a share issue on 13 June 2008 for US$78,029,000.
The interest in Lake Shore Gold gives the Group the right to exercise significant influence over that company.
In compliance with the Groups policy and IAS 28, the investment has been treated as an associate and accounted for using the equity method.
On 9 March 2009 the Group acquired 14,900,000 shares of Lake Shore for US$18,003,000 as part of its commitment to participate in the bought-deal financing agreement entered into by Lake Shore.
After completion of the transaction, the Groups ownership in Lake Shore was maintained at 39.99%.
On 6 November 2009 Lake Shore Gold acquired all of the outstanding common shares of West Timmins Mining Inc. West Timmins by issuing 103,951,125 common shares and 8,550,264 options and warrants.
At the date of the transaction the Group held an interest of 18.40% in West Timmins acquired between August and November of 2009 for a total consideration of US$63,782,000.
As a consequence of the transaction the Groups interest in Lake Shore Gold was diluted from 39.99% to 26.10% and a net gain of US$42,279,000 was recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement within the caption Share on post tax profit loss of associates refer to note 19 a.
On the same day, 28.3 million shares held by the Group in West Timmins were converted into 20.7 million shares in Lake Shore Gold, increasing the Groups interest in Lake Shore Gold to 32.20%.
During December 2009 the Group acquired an additional interest of 3.88% in Lake Shore Gold for a total consideration of US$86,168,000.
Also, at 31 December 2009 the accumulated interest held by the Group of 36.09% was diluted to 35.69% due to the issuance of a package of shares, options and warrants by Lake Shore Gold.
The total loss recognised in connection with the dilution of US$4,493,000 is recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement within the caption Share on post tax profit loss of associates refer to note 19 a.
Gold Resource Corporation In connection with the Strategic Alliance Agreement signed with Gold Resource Corporation, an underground precious metals mining company with a number of development projects in Mexico, the Group purchased 1,670,000 common shares 4.9% for US$5,010,000 on 5 December 2008.
The Group also acquired an option to purchase a further 4,330,000 common shares for US$12,990,000 US$3 per share.
On 25 February 2009, the Group exercised its option to purchase a further 4,330,000 common shares.
As a result of the acquisition of the second tranche, the Group held a 13.6% interest in Gold Resource Corporation and appointed one of the four directors, giving the Group significant influence over that company.
In compliance with the Groups policy and IAS 28, the investment has been treated as an associate and accounted for using the equity method since 25 February 2009.
On 30 June 2009, the Group exercised its option to purchase an additional 5,000,000 common shares for a total cash consideration of US$20,000,000.
The purchase was completed in two tranches: US$5,000,000 which closed on 30 June 2009 and a second tranche of US$15,000,000 which closed on 20 July 2009.
On 16 December 2009, the Group purchased 1,954,795 common shares for a total cash consideration of US$16,000,000.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group owns a 25.0% interest in Gold Resource Corporation.
c Acquisition of minority interest Minas Santa Maria fide Moris On 5 June 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 30% interest in Minas Santa Maria fide Moris from its former partner Exmin S. A. fide C. V. obtaining full ownership of its subsidiary for a total cash consideration of US$1,500,000.
In compliance with the Groups accounting policy, the difference between the consideration paid of US$1,500,000 and the carrying value of the minority interest at the acquisition date of US$5,650,000 has been recognised as an increase of retained earnings.
The revenue of the entity in the period, if the acquisition date was the start of the period was US$26,440,000.
The profit of the entity in the period, if the acquisition date was the start of the period was US$9,074,000.
88 Accounts 6 REVENUE As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Gold from dor 107,521 124,772 Silver from dor 71,546 98,738 Concentrate 360,534 210,145 Services 140 124 Total 539,741 433,779 The concentrate sold contained: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Gold 90,516 44,451 Silver 269,930 165,339 Other minerals 88 355 Total concentrate 360,534 210,145 Included within revenue is a gain of US$27,538,526 relating to provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives 2008: loss of US$14,561,723 arising on sales of concentrates and dor refer to notes 2 r and 23 3.
The total volumes of gold and silver sold are as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 Total in thousands of ounces: Gold 204 198 Silver 23,563 20,593 7 COST OF SALES Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Restated Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional Restated items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Depreciation 83,426 83,426 59,559 59,559 1 Personnel expenses 51,284 6,918 58,202 47,286 234 47,520 Mining royalty 9,458 9,458 5,935 5,935 Change in products in process and finished goods 8,066 8,066 7,291 7,291 1 The exceptional item corresponds to a one-off bonus paid to the mining workers in Peru 2008: The exceptional item corresponds to termination benefits paid to employees due to the restructuring undertaken by the Group at the end of 2008.
89 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Personnel expenses 25,381 25,381 35,504 1,127 36,631 Professional fees 6,637 6,637 10,012 10,012 2 Social and community welfare expenses 5,971 5,971 4,635 4,635 Lease rentals 1,653 1,653 1,447 1,447 Travel expenses 1,435 1,435 2,696 2,696 Communications 125 125 732 732 Indirect taxes 2,283 2,283 3,159 3,159 Depreciation 485 485 859 859 Amortisation of software licences 311 311 266 266 Contribution to Peruvian Government 870 870 944 944 Technology and systems 1,192 1,192 1,204 1,204 Security 286 286 587 587 Supplies 303 303 466 466 Other 4,136 4,136 6,240 6,240 Total 51,068 51,068 68,751 1,127 69,878 1 The exceptional item corresponds to termination benefits paid to employees due to the restructuring undertaken by the Group at the end of 2008.
2 Represents amounts expended by the Group on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
Once an inferred resource has been identified, costs incurred converting it to indicated and measured resources are capitalised.
2 Prospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: detail mapping, detail sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 Generative expenditure is very early stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
4 The exceptional item corresponds to the termination benefits paid to the workers of the companies of the Southwestern Group 2008: corresponds to termination benefits paid to employees due to the restructuring undertaking by the Group at the end of 2008.
91 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 EXPLORATION EXPENSES CONTINUED The following table lists the liabilities generally payables outstanding at the year end, which relate to the exploration activities of Group companies engaged only in exploration.
Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Liabilities related to exploration activities 965 1,247 Cash flows of exploration activities are as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Payments 7,469 8,304 10 SELLING EXPENSES As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 1 Transportation of dor, concentrate and maritime freight 7,493 4,636 Sales commissions 1,145 1,144 Personnel expenses 270 97 2 Warehouse services 10,223 4,022 Other 1,874 1,358 Total 21,005 11,257 1 Increase compared to 2008 mainly due to more tonnes of concentrate sold.
2 Increase compared to 2008 mainly due to more tonnes of concentrate sold and higher prices, leading to higher export duties paid.
92 Accounts 11 PERSONNEL EXPENSES As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 1 Salaries and wages 67,770 65,984 2 Workers profit sharing 2,073 4,273 3 Other legal contributions 8,859 12,873 4 Termination benefits 3,989 4,096 Statutory holiday payments 3,867 3,683 Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan note 27 2 302 Other 6,804 3,260 Total 93,362 94,471 1 Included in salaries and wages is the Directors remuneration refer to note 31 b and defined pension contributions of US$440,169 2008: US$524,869.
2 In accordance with Peruvian Legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
3 Corresponds to legal obligations as the deposit of compensation for services rendered, pension plans and contributions to Government entities.
4 The amount includes US$1,049,000 termination benefits paid to the workers of the companies of the Southwestern Group 2008: Includes US$1,430,000 termination benefits paid to employees due to the restructuring undertaking by the Group at the end of 2008.
Personnel expenses are distributed as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales refer to note 7 58,202 47,520 Administrative expenses refer to note 8 25,381 36,631 Exploration expenses refer to note 9 7,134 6,567 Selling expenses refer to note 10 270 97 Property, plant and equipment 2,375 3,656 Total 93,362 94,471 Average number of employees for 2009 and 2008 were as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 Peru 2,282 2,084 Argentina 838 699 Mexico 158 217 Chile 13 21 United Kingdom 8 12 Total 3,299 3,033 93 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Other income: Export incentive refer to note 21 2 1,921 1,921 2,622 2,622 Gain on recovery of expenses 472 472 225 225 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 153 153 252 252 Lease rentals 302 302 217 217 Recovery of impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, 1 Singer and Friedlander Bank 584 584 Negative goodwill on acquisition of subsidiary refer to note 5 7,694 7,694 2 Reversal of Electroper contingency 351 351 Other 1,806 1,806 1,961 1,961 Total 4,501 8,782 13,283 5,025 252 5,277 Other expenses: 3 Increase in provision for mine closure 11,526 11,526 3,216 3,216 Impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, 1 Singer and Friedlander Bank 1,292 1,292 2 Electroper contingency 692 692 Cost of maintenance of equipment 1,165 1,165 4 Termination benefits 662 662 Loss on sale of other assets 1,635 1,635 5 Compensation claims provision 1,850 1,850 354 354 6 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 1,128 585 1,713 634 634 7 Impairment of trade receivables 1,116 1,116 336 336 Other 2,075 2,075 2,541 2,541 Total 19,330 1,247 20,577 8,246 1,984 10,230 1 Most of those funds were recovered during 2009 and therefore an exceptional gain recognised to reverse part of the impairment recorded during 2008.
In 2008, this amount represented the impairment of cash deposits with Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank which went into administration in October 2008.
2 Compaa Minera Ares has a dispute with Electroper S. A. regarding the electric power during November and December 2002, and January, February and March 2003 which was simultaneously billed by Electroper and Sociedad Elctrica del Sur Oeste S. A. SEAL.
Compaa Minera Ares has filed a claim with Osinergim the Peruvian power regulator claiming that the billing should be only for the actual power consumed by the company and that Electroper and SEAL should each have half the billing.
Electroper has filed an administrative court action against the resolution issued by Osinergim and initiated an arbitration process seeking to additionally collect S. 832,135 US$264,842 plus interest.
Management, having consulted legal counsel, considered that there was a reasonable possibility that the outcome of these proceedings would not be favourable for Compaa Minera Ares, and accordingly had provided in full for the claim during 2008.
At the end of 2009 the calculation was updated, determining a reversal of US$351,000 to reflect the actual estimation of the claim amount.
3 In 2009 corresponds to changes in the estimated mine closure costs of closed operations in Peru of US$11,800,000 2008: US$2,288,000, refer to note 27 1 : net of the gain generated due to the change in the discount rate of US$274,000 2008: loss of US$928,000.
4 Represents the termination benefits paid to the employees due to the closing of the Selene mine.
5 Corresponds to compensation claims provisions related to the Peruvian companies.
6 Mainly corresponds to the write-off of supplies at the Sipan mine that could not be sold or used in the other mining units of Peru and the obsolescence of supplies at the Selene mine due to the closure of the mine.
7 Mainly corresponds to the impairment of a trade receivable from a customer in Peru.
In 2008, mainly corresponds to the amount accrued for impairment of other receivables.
94 Accounts 13 FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Finance income: 1 Interest on time deposits 819 819 5,934 5,934 Gain from changes in the fair value of financial 2 instruments 9,045 9,045 304 2,301 2,605 3 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 623 623 1,613 1,613 4 Gain on exchange of available-for-sale financial assets 12,632 12,632 Interest on loans to minority shareholders note 21 2,609 2,609 2,623 2,623 5 Change in discount rate 2,837 2,837 Interest on loans to third parties 47 47 Other 119 119 474 474 Total 6,384 22,300 28,684 9,382 3,914 13,296 Finance costs: Interest on bank loans and long-term debt 13,976 13,976 13,387 13,387 Interest on convertible bond note 26 1,663 1,663 6 Unwind of discount rate 278 278 4,590 4,590 Loss from changes in the fair value of forward 7 contracts 25,962 25,962 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial 8 instruments 2,452 1,256 3,708 6,246 6,246 9 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 11,421 11,421 Premium paid on purchase of available-for-sale 10 financial assets 421 421 Other 1,709 1,709 856 856 Total 46,040 1,256 47,296 18,833 18,088 36,921 1 Mainly corresponds to interest on liquidity funds refer to note 24.
2 In 2009, the amount mainly corresponds to the gain realised upon the exercise of an option over shares in Gold Resource Corp. on 25 February 2009 of US$5,493,000, the gain of the option contract to buy 3,750,000 shares of Gold Resource Corp. of US$1,912,500 and the change in the fair value of Fortuna Silver Mine Inc. warrants of US$1,639,000.
In 2008, the amount corresponds to the change in the fair value of the option over 4,330,000 shares of Gold Resource Corp. of US$2,301,000 and a gain of US$304,000 due to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments according to the contracts signed in December 2008 with Citibank and INTL Commodities Inc. with the intention of removing the risk of fluctuations in metal prices refer to note 23 4.
3 In 2009, corresponds to the sale of 3,287,570 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. resulting in a realised gain of US$623,000 which has been recycled from equity into the income statement.
In 2008, corresponds to the sale of 1,660,150 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. at a price of CAD$2 per share for a total consideration of CAD$3,320,300 US$3,321,450 resulting in a realised gain of US$1,613,000 which has been recycled from equity into the income statement.
4 Mainly corresponds to the gain from change in the fair value of West Timmins Mining Inc. shares.
Between August and November of 2009 the Group acquired 18.4% interest in West Timmins Mining Inc. for a total consideration of US$63,782,000.
These shares were subsequently exchanged for Lake Shore Gold shares on 6 November 2009 realising a gain of US$12,129,000 includes transaction costs of US$394,000.
In addition includes the gain for receiving shares of Dia Bras Exploration due to the merger with EXMIN Resources Inc. of US$391,000 and for receiving shares of Lara Exploration Ltd. due to the merger with Maxy Gold Corp. of US$112,000.
5 Corresponds to the gain arising on the reduction in the discount rate used to the calculation of the recoverable amount of VAT of Minera Santa Cruz of US$2,837,000 2008: Nil.
6 In 2009, corresponds to the unwind of the discount on the provision for mine closure of US$278,000.
In 2008 corresponds to the unwind of the discount on the provision for mine closure of US$669,000 refer to note 27 and the unwind of discount on VAT of Minera Santa Cruz of US$3,921,000.
7 Corresponds to the realised loss due to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, being the future contracts of gold and silver signed with Citibank, JP Morgan and INTL Commodities Inc. with the intention to remove the risk of the fluctuations in metal prices.
8 In 2009, corresponds to the loss due to changes in the fair value of the zero cost collar contracts signed by Cia.
Minera Ares during the period.
These contracts relate to 5,200,000 ounces of silver, with a cap of US$17 oz for 1,400,000 ounces, US$19.5 oz for 400,000 ounces and US$19.95 oz for 400,000 ounces, and a floor of US$11.00 oz and contracts with a cap of US$20.92 oz and floor of US$13.80 oz for 1,500,000 ounces, and a cap of US$21 oz and a floor of US$14 oz for 1,500,000 ounces.
The contracts expire between January and December 2010.
In addition it includes a loss of US$1,256,000 relating to the fair value of the swap contract signed with BBVA and Citibank to fix the interest rate of the JP Morgan led syndicated loan in 1.75% refer to note 26.
In 2008, mainly corresponds to the change in fair value of warrants in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. of US$6,245,000 refer to note 23 1.
9 Corresponds to the impairment of the investment in the shares of EXMIN US$8,229,000, Mirasol Resources Inc. US$323,000, Electrum Capital Inc. US$2,637,000, Fortuna River US$157,000 and Ventura Gold Corp. US$75,000.
10 Corresponds to the premium paid on the acquisition of the shares of Iron Creek Capital Corp. and Mariana Resources Ltd. amounting to US$173,000 and US$248,000 respectively.
95 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS CONTINUED Interest income and expense from assets and liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss are as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Interest income from financial assets that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 3,428 8,604 Interest expense from financial liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 15,639 13,387 Total 12,211 4,783 14 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional 1 items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax: Current tax charge from continuing operations 30,946 2,275 28,671 13,058 56 13,002 30,946 2,275 28,671 13,058 56 13,002 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 29 12,486 8,943 3,543 10,814 5,444 5,370 12,486 8,943 3,543 10,814 5,444 5,370 Withholding taxes 1,256 1,256 895 895 Total taxation charge in the income statement 44,688 11,218 33,470 24,767 5,500 19,267 1 This amount corresponds to the related tax impact of exceptional items refer to note 2 y.
This principally relates to a current tax credit of US$2,076,000 in connection with the one-off bonus paid to the mining workers in Peru 2008: Nil and US$9,048,000 deferred tax credit in connection with an impairment loss recognised in the period 2008: US$3,736,000.
The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 30.1% for 2009 and 7.5% for 2008.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
96 Accounts 14 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: As at 31 December Restated 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 154,810 2,273 At average statutory income tax rate of 30.1% 2008: 7.5 % 46,702 171 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,049 5,315 Non-taxable income 6,662 2,055 1 Non-taxable negative goodwill 2,308 2 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 629 6,063 3 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 4,222 1,102 Non-taxable share of gains losses of associates 13,276 2,534 Net deferred tax assets generated in the year not recognised 11,204 13,871 4 Change in tax regime 2,002 1,544 5 Change in statutory Income Tax Rate 786 786 6 Foreign exchange rate effect 25 7,731 7 Derecognition of deferred tax assets previously recognised 4,790 Other 1,415 377 At average effective income tax rate of 21.62% 2008: 847.65% 33,470 19,267 Taxation charge attributable to continuing operations 33,470 19,267 Total taxation charge in the income statement 33,470 19,267 1 Corresponds to non-taxable negative goodwill on acquisition of Southwestern Group.
2 Corresponds to the deferred tax income asset recognised for the additional tax losses generated during the year arising from the double deduction claimed for tax purposes by Minera Santa Cruz during the year refer to note i.
3 Increase in 2009 mainly corresponds to recognised tax losses upon tax restructuring in Mexican companies of US$7,392,000 and the use of previously unrecognised tax losses in 2009 of US$7,687,000.
In 2008, mainly corresponds to the tax effect of certain mine closure expenses which are now expected to be deductible against taxable income, when incurred.
4 Corresponds to the effect of the change in the Mexican tax regime refer to note ii.
5 Corresponds to an increase in the statutory corporate income tax rate for the Arcata mining unit from 30% to 32% with effect from 1 January 2009.
This increase was reversed during 2009 as the Group opted out of certain clauses of the stability agreement, including the increase of 2% in income tax refer to note 36.
6 Mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect from converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the functional currency.
7 Relates to the reversal of a deferred tax asset previously recognised as the ability to utilise this potential deferred tax asset against future taxable profits is now uncertain.
97 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED i Special investment regime Minera Santa Cruz benefits from a special investment regime that allows for a double deduction in the calculation of its corporate income tax liability for all costs relating to prospecting, exploration and metallurgical analysis, pilot plants and other expenses incurred for the feasibility studies for mining projects.
The investment recognised under this regime amounted to US$1,800,000 in 2009 2008: US$17,300,000.
No significant further deduction under this special investment regime is expected in 2010 and subsequent years.
ii Change in Mexican tax regime On 28 September 2007, the Mexican Government enacted a bill for tax reform that significantly changed the current income tax structure in Mexico.
Effective from 1 January 2008, the tax reform requires companies to pay tax equal to the greater of the tax charge calculated under the new flat rate business tax IETU as abbreviated in Spanish or the tax charge calculated under the current income corporate tax regime ISR as abbreviated in Spanish.
The Group has performed an analysis of the future impact of this tax reform on its Mexican companies and has determined that Santa Maria fide Moris S. A. fide C. V. the operator of the Moris mine will be required to pay ISR Tax instead of IETU in each period until the end of the mines life.
Therefore, at 31 December 2009 the Group reversed the deferred tax liability of US$2,002,000 recognised at 31 December 2008 in connection with IETU.
15 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, EPS has been calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 Profit loss for the year and from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company US$000 98,080 24,718 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 314,043 307,350 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and dilutive potential ordinary shares thousands 317,607 307,350 Basic and earning loss per share from: Before exceptional items US$ 0.17 0.05 Exceptional items US$ 0.14 0.13 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.31 0.08 Diluted earning loss per share from: Before exceptional items US$ 0.17 0.05 Exceptional items US$ 0.14 0.13 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.31 0.08 98 Accounts 16 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Mining properties Construction and Mine in progress development Land and Plant and closure and capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2008 Cost At 1 January 2008 157,711 65,435 105,946 2,824 38,288 14,021 384,225 Additions 79,496 4,253 9,375 77 149,759 242,960 Change in discount rate 3,113 3,113 Disposals 120 158 278 Write-off 24 24 Change in mine closure estimate 280 280 Transfers and other movements 2,192 30,748 68,535 746 97,837 Transfers from Evaluation and exploration assets 2,960 2,960 Sales during preoperating stage in Minera Santa Cruz 125 125 Foreign exchange 32 43 467 69 10 621 At 31 December 2008 237,818 100,393 183,245 3,420 41,681 65,933 632,490 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 50,027 12,858 31,749 860 31,703 127,197 Restatement of depreciation 14,001 14,001 At 1 January 2008, as restated 64,028 12,858 31,749 860 31,703 141,198 Depreciation for the year 37,918 7,697 13,729 455 730 60,529 2 Impairment 5,582 754 6,286 105 943 788 14,458 Disposals 54 84 138 Write-off 4 4 Sales during preoperating stage in Minera Santa Cruz 12 12 Foreign exchange 2 78 30 106 At 31 December 2008 107,516 21,311 51,628 1,306 33,376 788 215,925 Net book amount at 31 December 2008, as restated 130,302 79,082 131,617 2,114 8,305 65,145 416,565 99 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Mining properties Construction and Mine in progress development Land and Plant and closure and capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2009 Cost At 1 January 2009 237,818 100,393 183,245 3,420 41,681 65,933 632,490 Additions 50,969 381 16,032 160 32,357 99,899 Acquisition of subsidiary 23,800 347 119 24,266 Change in discount rate 1,770 1,770 Disposals 1,148 1,639 96 169 3,052 Write-off 27,718 1,894 5,496 162 62 35,208 Change in mine closure estimate 15,220 15,220 Reclassification to intangibles 5,891 5,891 Transfers and other movements 10,244 28,433 255 38,932 Transfer to Evaluation and exploration assets 1,921 1,921 Foreign exchange 2,087 3 546 12 33 2,681 At 31 December 2009 283,887 109,127 215,577 3,708 55,131 59,284 726,714 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 107,516 21,311 51,628 1,306 33,376 788 215,925 Depreciation for the year 45,229 13,719 23,345 375 1,254 83,922 2 Write-off 26,666 1,147 2,924 80 130 30,687 3 Impairment 9,671 4,390 5,093 50 2,172 310 21,686 Disposals 956 110 1,066 Reclassification to intangibles 606 1,559 2,165 Foreign exchange 141 141 At 31 December 2009 135,750 37,667 74,768 1,541 36,932 1,098 287,756 Net book amount at 31 December 2009 148,137 71,460 140,809 2,167 18,199 58,186 438,958 1 The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2009 was US$11,177,000 2008: US$7,482,000.
Additions during the year included US$6,058,000 2008: US$7,872,000 of plant and equipment under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
2 As a result of the cessation of mining activities at the Selene mine unit, the remaining net book value of assets of US$4,523,000 was written off.
3 The amount of impairment losses recognised in profit and loss during the period was US$21,686,000.
As a result of the impairment testing, the Group has impaired the Ares mine unit by US$15,041,000, the Liam property by US$10,091,000 and reversed the impairment loss of the Moris unit of US$3,446,000.
The trigger for the impairment was the proximity of the closing of Ares and the resulting revision to the remaining recoverable reserves and resources.
In addition the company reassessed the fair value of the Liam properties, following the acquisition of Southwestern refer to note 5.
The Group tested for impairment the following mining units: Ares, San Jos and Moris.
In assessing whether impairment is required to the carrying value of the assets related to each mining unit, its carrying value is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charges described below is value in use.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model for each mining unit covering its remaining useful life.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group recognised impairments totalling US$14,458,000, related to the Selene mine unit US$8,208,000, the Moris mine unit US$5,652,000 and the San Felipe project US$598,000.
These impairments were triggered primarily by the effect of the economic environment at that time, and the significantly reduced gold, silver and zinc prices.
There were no borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment as no significant qualifying assets were constructed during 2009.
100 Accounts 16 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices of gold and silver are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Estimation of reserves and resources Reserves and resources are based on managements estimates using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques.
Production volumes and grades Tonnage produced was estimated at plant capacity with 19 days of maintenance per year 2008: 12 days.
Capital expenditure The cash flows for each mining unit include capital expenditures to maintain the mine and to convert resources to reserves.
Operating costs Costs are based on historical information from previous years and current mining conditions.
Discount rates The cash flows are discounted at real pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit.
2009 Real pre-tax discount 2009 Real rate post-tax Mining unit % % Ares 3.21 3.21 San Jos 14.3 8.43 Moris 5.43 3.91 2008 Real pre-tax discount 2008 Real rate post-tax Mining unit % % Ares 28.5 5.1 San Jos 17.0 9.2 Moris 5.97 4.3 Cash flows used for impairment tests were based on the annual 2010 budget presented and approved by the board in December 2009.
The starting point in all cases was January 2010.
Individual cash flows are based on the annual 2010 budget and an estimated set of reserves and resources as of December 2009 provided by Explorations and Operations.
In addition, for the following years, the Group includes any conservative adjustment to reflect the nature of each operation in an accurate manner.
In the case of revenue, production figures were estimated considering reserve grade after extracted tonnage and full capacity.
In the case of operating expenses, all figures are based on the 2010 budget and the main assumption was that any change in the foreign exchange rate would be offset by a change in the inflation rate.
Future capital expenditure is based on the 2010 budget, excluding one off expenses and considering operations view on developments and infrastructure, according to the estimated set of reserves and resources.
101 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 EVALUATION AND EXPLORATION ASSETS 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 44,726 6,034 Additions 8,636 68,311 1 Impairments 222 15,754 Write-off 284 Transfers and other movements 1,921 2,960 Foreign exchange 1,051 10,905 At 31 December 55,828 44,726 1 The amount of impairment losses recognised in profit and loss during the period was US$222,000.
As a result of the impairment testing, the Group has impaired the Ares mine unit by US$222,000.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charges is value in use.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group recognised impairments totalling US$15,754,000, related to the Selene mine unit US$949,000 and the San Felipe project US$14,805,000.
Refer to note 16 for the assumptions considered in the impairment calculation.
2 There were no borrowing costs capitalised in evaluation and exploration assets.
3 From the net book value at 31 December 2009, US$37,825,000 corresponds to the investment in San Felipe 2008: US$36,552,000 refer to note 39.
18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Transmission Software Goodwill line licences Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost Balance at 1 January 2008 2,091 876 2,967 Additions 37 37 Balance at 31 December 2008 2,091 913 3,004 Additions 16,266 76 16,342 Reclassification 5,891 5,891 Balance at 31 December 2009 2,091 22,157 989 25,237 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1 January 2008 71 71 Amortisation for the year 266 266 Foreign exchange difference 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2008 336 336 Amortisation for the year 2,078 311 2,389 Reclassification 87 87 Foreign exchange difference Balance at 31 December 2009 2,165 647 2,812 Net book value as at 31 December 2008 2,091 577 2,668 Net book value as at 31 December 2009 2,091 19,992 342 22,425 The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its value-in-use.
The value-inuse is determined at the cash-generating unit level, in this case being the San Jos mine, by discounting the expected cash flows estimated by management over the life of the mine.
The Group has tested the San Jos mining unit for impairment, refer to note 16 3 for the key assumptions used in calculating the mines value in use.
102 Accounts 18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Management believes that the following changes to the main assumptions would cause the carrying value of the goodwill to equal its recoverable amount.
Therefore, any higher deviation would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount and an impairment provision would be required.
Assumption Variation Gold price 6.8 % Silver price 6.3 % Reserves and resources 17.0 % Costs 7.9% Discount rates 4.3% 19 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED UNDER EQUITY METHOD Year end 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 a Lake Shore Gold Corp 386,190 136,376 b Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. 170 c Cabo Sur 57 187 d Gold Resource Corp. 62,467 e Zincore Metals Inc. 2,065 Total 450,665 136,019 a Lake Shore Gold Corp The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Lake Shore Gold Corp: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Share of the associates statement of financial position: Current assets 47,520 29,217 Non-current assets 345,948 128,913 Current liabilities 7,663 5,839 Non-current liabilities 50,758 28,428 Net assets 335,047 123,863 Goodwill on acquisition 51,143 12,513 Carrying amount of the investment 386,190 136,376 Share of the associates revenue and losses: Revenue 1 Profit losses 46,951 3,925 Carrying amount of the investment 386,190 136,376 1 Share of the associates profit in 2009 includes 1 a gain of US$101,503,000 from the Groups share in Lake Shore Golds acquisition of 100% of West Timmins net assets, 2 a gain from the Groups share in the results of the period of Lake Shore Gold of US$9,165,000, 3 a loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 39.99% to 26.1% at 6 November 2009 of US$59,224,000, and 4 a loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 36.09% to 35.69% at 31 December 2009 of US$4,493,000.
103 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED UNDER EQUITY METHOD CONTINUED b Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. On 21 June 2005, Minera Oro Vega S. A. C. Minorva, the partner of the Groups Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. subsidiary and Minera del Suroeste Misosa entered into an option and joint venture agreement Framework Agreement in respect of the Pacapausa properties located in Peru.
On 16 November 2007, Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Suyamarca signed an amendment to the Framework Agreement with Misosa and Minorva, incorporating the terms under which Suyamarca would acquire Minorvas contractual position.
Under the arrangement, Suyamarca paid US$200,000 to Minorva in exchange for its contractual position in the Framework Agreement.
The new joint venture company, Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. Pacapausa, was incorporated on 4 March 2008 and Suyamarca contributed US$1,200,000 solely funded by the Group in exchange for a 50% interest in Pacapausa.
Subsequently, Minorva transferred to Pacapausa all technical reports and other assets obtained as a result of its exploration activities in the properties in exchange for a cash payment of US$1,200,000.
In compliance with the Groups policy, Pacapausa recognises all expenses related to the project within exploration expenses as the project has not yet reached the inferred mineral resource category.
On 21 May 2009, the Group acquired a 100% interest of Southwestern Resources Corp. the parent company of Misosa and consequently, started to consolidate the financial results of Pacapausa.
The following table summarises the financial information relating to the Groups investment in Pacapausa: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 10 Non-current assets Current liabilities 180 Non-current liabilities Net assets 170 Share of the joint ventures revenue and loss: Revenue Loss 131 2,132 Carrying amount of the investment 170 c Cabo Sur On 21 February 2007, the Group signed an option and joint venture agreement with Mirasol Resources Ltd. Mirasol.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Group has the right to acquire a 51% interest in the Claudia project by investing, over a period of four years, at least US$6,000,000 and making payments to Mirasol of US$650,0000 within four years.
On 13 March 2007, Mirasol incorporated Cabo Sur S. A. Cabo Sur and during 2008 transferred all the rights of the Claudia property into Cabo Sur.
Until the exercise of the Claudias option, Mirasol and the Group will own 99% and 1% of Cabo Sur, respectively.
However, the Group exercises joint control over Cabo Sur as the strategic financial and operating decisions require the consent of both parties.
Accordingly, in compliance with the Groups policy and IAS 31, the investment has been treated as a jointly controlled entity accounted for using the equity method.
In compliance with the Groups policy, Cabo Sur recognises all expenses related to the project within exploration expenses as the project has not yet reached the inferred mineral resource category.
104 Accounts 19 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED UNDER EQUITY METHOD CONTINUED The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Cabo Sur: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 6 32 Non-current assets 6 2 Current liabilities 69 221 Non-current liabilities Net assets 57 187 Share of the joint ventures revenue and loss: Revenue Loss 61 2,157 Carrying amount of the investment 57 187 d Gold Resource Corp.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Gold Resource Corp: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 5,671 Non-current assets 46,873 Current liabilities 181 Non-current liabilities 11,609 Net assets 40,754 Goodwill on acquisition 21,713 Share of the joint ventures revenue and loss: Revenue Loss 1,240 Carrying amount of the investment 62,467 e Zincore Metals Inc. On 21 May 2009 the Group acquired 100% of Southwestern Resources Corporation.
Within the assets of the group was 38,100,000 shares of Zincore Metals Inc. equivalent to a 48.2% interest.
On September 2009 Zincore Metals Inc. issued 24,060,000 shares resulting in a dilution of the Groups interest to 36.8%.
Zincore Metals Inc. raised US$5,596,000 that generated a Group gain of US$2,065,000.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Zincore Metals Inc: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 2,110 Non-current assets 67 Current liabilities 96 Non-current liabilities 16 Net assets 2,065 Share of the joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue Profit 1,704 Carrying amount of the investment 2,065 105 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 17,794 15,100 1 Additions 70,022 18,902 2 Increase in value of available-for-sale financial assets due to merger of companies 357 Fair value change recorded in equity 22,592 2,914 3 Impairment recorded in the income statement 9,442 Foreign exchange 427 519 4 Disposals 4,749 3,333 5 Reclassification to investments accounted under equity method 87,262 Ending balance 19,181 17,794 1 The amount represents the fair value of shares at the date of acquisition and mainly includes the purchase of shares of Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. of US$3,196,000, Ventura Gold Corp. of US$158,000, Pembrook Mining Corp. of US$1,857,000, West Timmins Mining Inc. of US$63,782,000, Northern Superior Resources Inc. of US$705,000, Empire Petroleum Corp. of US$82,000, and Maxy Gold Corp at of US$243,000.
2 Corresponds to the transfer of shares due to the merger between EXMIN Resources Inc. and Dia Bras Exploration US$325,000 and the merge between Maxy Gold Corp. and Lara Explorations Ltd. US$32,000.
The net effect was recognised in profit and loss.
3 The amount corresponds to the decrease in the fair value of the investment in the shares of EXMIN Resources Inc. Ventura Gold Corp. Fortuna River and Mirasol Resources Inc. assessed as an impairment loss during the year and consequently transferred from equity to the income statement refer to note 13.
It also includes the impairment of the shares of Electrum Capital Inc. of US$2,637,000.
4 Corresponds to the sale of 3,287,570 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. refer to note 13.
5 Corresponds to the reclassification to investments accounted under the equity method of the West Timmins Mining Inc. shares of US$82,252,000 and Gold Resource Corp. of US$5.010,000 on the date they became associates of the Group.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Equity securities quoted Canadian companies 4,225 1,631 Equity securities quoted US companies 119 5,845 Equity securities quoted British companies 3,086 422 1 Equity securities unquoted 11,743 9,888 Bonds 8 8 Total 19,181 17,794 1 Includes Pembrook Mining Corp and Electrum Capital Inc. shares.
106 Accounts 20 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED The breakdown of the investments in equity securities held is as follows number of shares : Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares held at held at held at 1 January 31 December 31 December 2008 Additions Disposals 2008 Additions Transfer Disposals 2009 Fortuna River 663,600 663,600 663,600 Rio Fortuna Silver Mine 2,472,365 1,660,150 812,215 2,475,355 3,287,570 Mirasol Resources Ltd 500,000 500,000 500,000 1 Pembrook Mining Corp 5,714,286 5,714,286 1,111,111 6,825,397 2 Gold Resource Corp 1,670,000 1,670,000 1,670,000 3 Electrum Capital Inc 4,205,462 4,205,462 4,205,462 4 Iron Creek Capital Corp 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 5 Mariana Resources Ltd 11,002,948 11,002,948 11,002,948 6 EXMIN Resources Inc 18,387,487 18,387,487 18,387,487 7 Ventura Gold Corp 100,000 200,000 300,000 700,000 1,000,000 8 West Timmins Mining Inc 28,331,500 28,331,500 Northern Superior 9 Resources Inc 10,053,007 10,053,007 10 Empire Petroleum Corp 1,333,333 1,333,333 11 Maxy Gold Corp 3,961,600 3,961,600 6 Dia Bras Exploration 3,751,047 3,751,047 11 Lara Explorations Ltd 495,200 495,200 1 The investment in Pembrook Mining Corp. 6.2%, a privately held exploration company with projects in Peru and Canada, relates to the purchase of 1,111,111 common shares on 15 September 2009.
In 2008 the Group acquired 5.6% relating to the purchase of 2,857,143 common shares on 14 May 2008 and 2,857,143 common shares on 11 September 2008.
2 The investment in Gold Resource Corp. 25.0%, an underground precious metals mining company with a number of prime development projects in Mexico, relates to the transfer of shares to investments in associates, due to the Groups significant influence following its increased investment in Gold Resource Corp. in February 2009.
In 2008, the Group acquired 4.9% relating to the purchase of common shares on 5 December 2008 in connection with the Strategic Alliance Agreement signed with Gold Resource Corp. 3 The investment in Electrum Capital Inc. 11.5%, a privately held exploration company with projects in Brazil, Mexico, Peru and Argentina, relates to the purchase of 1,538,462 common shares on 25 April 2008 and 2,667,000 common shares on 22 October 2008.
4 The investment in Iron Creek Capital Corp. 14.8% relates to the purchase of common shares on 24 September 2008 in connection with the Letter of Intent signed with the company for an Option and Joint Venture Agreement to develop the Vaquillas project in Chile refer to note 34 b.
5 The investment in Mariana Resources Ltd. 9.4%, an exploration company with projects in Argentina, Chile and Ecuador, relates to the purchase of common shares on 12 December 2008 for US$495,000.
6 In 2009 the Group received shares from Dia Bras Exploration in exchange of EXMIN Resources Inc. shares, due to the merger of these companies.
This investment is treated as an available-for-sale financial asset on the basis that the Group does not have significant influence over the company.
7 On 19 December 2008 Ventura Gold Corp. exercised its option to acquire 51% in the Inmaculada project refer to note 34 b generating the obligation to issue 1,000,000 shares to the Group.
As at 31 December 2009, Ventura Gold Corp. issued 1,000,000 shares 2008: 300,000 shares.
In 2008, the Group has recognised US$103,000 in Other income relating to the right to receive 700,000 shares.
8 The investment in West Timmins Mining Inc. Nil, relates to the purchase of common shares during 2009 and the transfer due to the agreement with Lake Shore Gold.
9 The investment in Northern Superior Resources Inc. 13.6%, relates to the purchase of common shares on 21 May 2009 from Southwestern Resources Corp. 10 The investment in Empire Petroleum Corp. 2.3%, relates to the purchase of common shares on 21 May 2009 from Southwestern Resources Corp. 11 The investment in Maxy Gold Corp. relates to the purchase of common shares on 21 May 2009 from Southwestern Resources Corp.
In addition, during 2009, the Group receives shares from Lara Explorations Ltd. in exchange of Maxy Gold Corp. shares, due to the merger between these companies.
During the period there were no reclassifications between quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
The investments in unlisted shares Pembrook Mining Corp. and Electrum Capital Inc. were recognised at their acquisition cost given that there is not an active market for these investments.
The investment in Electrum Capital Inc. was impaired in 2008 resulting in a loss of US$2,637,000 recorded in profit and loss.
The investment in Pembrook Mining Corp. is measured at the latest purchase price in Canadian dollars, updated for the foreign exchange difference.
The Company did not asses for impairment its investment of US$11,743,000 in Pembrook Mining Corp. as at 31 December 2009 as there was no indicator of it.
107 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Canadian dollars 15,968 11,519 US dollars 127 5,853 Pounds sterling 3,086 422 Total 19,181 17,794 21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES As at 31 December 2009 2008 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade receivables 76,981 47,348 Advances to suppliers 5,436 7,097 2 Credit from exports 3,587 465 1,444 3 Loan to minority shareholder 39,443 30,331 6,502 4 Due from minority shareholder 11,116 Receivables from related parties note 31 996 1,048 Loans to employees 1,276 1,585 607 336 5 Interest receivable 38 141 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank refer to note 12 3 965 1,292 Other 22 720 1,581 6 Provision for impairment 2,443 1,987 Financial assets classified as receivables 1,298 127,308 31,403 75,918 Prepaid expenses 516 5,454 412 2,652 7 Value Added Tax VAT 1,336 32,102 6,489 45,156 Total 3,150 164,864 38,304 123,726 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 At 31 December 2009, trade accounts receivable mainly comprised amounts receivable from Consorcio Minero S. A. US$21,628,000, Teck Cominco Metals Ltd US$17,481,000, Aurubis AG US$29,040,000, MRI Trading AG US$2,078,000, LS Nikko US$4,922,000, Doe Run Per SRL US$1,108,000, Johnson Matthey Inc US$605,000, and Argor Heraus S. A. US$116,000.
At 31 December 2008, trade accounts receivable mainly comprised amounts receivable from Consorcio Minero S. A. US$16,382,000, Teck Cominco Metals Ltd US$13,902,000 and Louis Dreyfus Per S. A. US$7,143,000.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: US dollars 76,978,000 2008: 47,330,000 Peruvian nuevos soles 3,000 2008: 18,000 2 Corresponds to the credits due on exports of Minera Santa Cruz.
This credit is calculated as 1% of total sale of concentrate and 2% of total sale of dor delivered through the Patagonico Port in Argentina.
3 This relates to loans to Minera Andes Inc.
The effective interest rate was between 7.86% and 8.21% in 2009 between 7.86% and 8.21% in 2008 refer to note 38 f. 4 Mainly corresponds to capital contributions due from a minority shareholder of Minera Santa Cruz S. A. Minera Andes of US$Nil 2008: US$11,115,000.
5 Mainly corresponds to interest receivable on JP Morgan liquidity funds refer to note 24 1.
6 Includes provision for impairment of other receivables of US$2,443,000 as at 31 December 2009 2008: US$1,987,000.
It mainly corresponds to the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank of US$798,000 2008: US$1,292,000 refer to note 12 3 and trade receivable from a customer in Peru of US$1,108,000 2008:Nil.
7 This includes an amount of US$20,838,000 2008: US$32,220,000 of value added taxes paid in the development and plant expansion of the San Jos project that will be recovered through the future sales of gold and silver by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
It also includes the VAT of Minera Suyamarca of US$4,091,000 2008: US$12,741,000 and Minas Santa Mara fide Moris of US$5,628,000 2008: US$2,369,000.
The value added tax is valued at its recoverable amount.
108 Accounts 21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually Collectively impaired impaired Total US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2008 548 548 Charge for the year 1,628 1,628 Utilised 189 189 At 31 December 2008 1,987 1,987 Charge for the year 1,116 1,116 Utilised 660 660 At 31 December 2009 2,443 2,443 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Less than 30 to 60 61 to 90 91 to 120 Over Total impaired 30 days days days days 120 days Year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2009 75,873 75,873 2008 47,348 47,348 22 INVENTORIES As at As at As at 31 December 31 December 1 January 2009 2008 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 Finished goods 6,074 2,968 3,551 Products in process 12,538 23,710 30,418 Raw materials 1,002 1,741 494 Supplies and spare parts 28,610 24,437 13,563 48,224 52,856 48,026 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 2,411 1,001 398 Total 45,813 51,855 47,628 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver and concentrate.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of silver, gold and minor impurities delivered in bar form to refiners and is considered a product in process.
The refined products are then sold to the customers and or refiners.
Concentrate is a product containing sulphides with variable content of base and precious metals and is sold to smelters.
The amount of dor on hand at 31 December 2009 included in products in process is US$2,977,000 2008: US$4,632,000.
As part of the managements short-term financing policies, the Group acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the inventory refer to note 26 a.
109 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT AND LOSS As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 1 Warrants in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. 745 2 Option over shares of Gold Resource Corp. 2,301 3 Embedded derivatives 695 2,219 4 Swap contracts 304 Total assets 695 5,569 3 Embedded derivatives 175 5 Zero cost collar contracts 2,452 6 Swap contracts 13 Total liabilities 2,640 1 At 31 December 2008, this item represented a balance of 2,475,355 warrants of Fortuna Silver Mines Inc.
The expiry dates of the warrants were 27 June 2010 and 17 November 2010 for 862,117 and 1,613,238 warrants respectively.
Warrants were fair valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
These warrants were executed during 2009.
2 At 31 December 2009, the Group had executed the options over shares of Gold Resource Corp. At 31 December 2008 this item represented the option over 4,330,000 shares of Gold Resource Corp. with an expiry date of 2 March 2009.
Options are fair valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
3 Sales of concentrate and certain gold and silver volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes for the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or for the refiner to process the dor into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The gain or loss that arises on the fair value of the embedded derivative is recorded in Revenue refer to note 6.
4 The Group holds contracts of derivative instruments with the intention to remove the risk of fluctuations in metal prices.
As at 31 December 2008, the Company did not meet all the criteria stated in IAS 39 to account for the derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
Accordingly, the Group recognised a gain of US$304,000 due to the changes in the fair value occurring during 2008, which is recognised within finance income refer to note 13 2.
The fair value of the forward contracts is calculated based on spot prices plus forward points estimated using SIFO Silver Forward Mid Rates and GOFO Gold Forward Offered Rates for silver and gold, respectively, as published by the London Bullion Market Association at 31 December 2008.
5 The Group entered into zero cost collar contracts covering 5,200,000 ounces of silver in 2010, at an average cap price of US$19.7 and an average floor price of US$12.7.
These contracts expire from January to December 2010.
6 At the end of 2009 the Group signed a swap contract with Citibank and BBVA to fix the interest rate of the JP Morgan led syndicate loan of US$114,320,000 refer to note 26.
24 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 1,430 171 1 Liquidity funds 28,294 93,131 2 Current demand deposit accounts 40,447 14,567 3 Time deposits 7,673 8,278 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the statement of cash flows 77,844 116,147 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
The Group does not have undrawn borrowing facilities available in the future for operating activities or capital commitments.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificate of deposit, commercial paper and floating rate notes with a weighted average annual effective interest rate of 0.71% and a weighted average maturity between 30 to 55 days as at 31 December 2009 2008: 3.98% and between 30 and 54 days refer to note 38 f. 2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and do not bear interest.
3 The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2009 was 3.00% 2008: 2.67%.
These deposits have an average maturity from 1 to 30 days 2008: 1 to 30 days refer to note 38 f. 110 Accounts 25 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at 31 December 2009 2008 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 29,026 50,904 Professional fees 1,179 1,260 Interest payable 114 421 Taxes and contributions 9,061 543 9,622 Salaries and wages payable 13,275 11,955 Mining royalty note 37 2,192 1,012 2 Dividends payable 336 228 Accrued expenses 81 6,304 84 2,158 Guarantee deposits 1,307 2,745 3 Swap contract 4,337 Other 1,370 1,986 Total 81 68,501 627 82,291 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables relate mainly to the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
Trade payables are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US dollars 13,783 20,935 Peruvian nuevos soles 9,298 14,112 Argentinian pesos 5,006 15,128 Mexican pesos 374 390 Pounds sterling 140 68 Chilean pesos 375 213 Canadian dollars 50 49 Australian dollars 9 Total 29,026 50,904 2 Corresponds to dividends payable to minority shareholders of Compaa Minera Arcata S. A. of US$336,000 2008: US$228,000.
3 Corresponds to the amount payable related to the contracts signed with Citibank, JP Morgan and INTL Commodities Inc. with the intention to remove the risk of fluctuations in metal prices.
As these contracts were closed, the Group transferred the balance previously classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit and loss to other payables.
111 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 BORROWINGS As at 31 December 2009 2008 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans note 26 a 115,854 34,773 202,094 56,625 Amount due to minority shareholders note 26 b 75,570 29,598 40,409 Convertible bond payable note 26 c 103,827 1,663 Amounts due to related parties note 31 902 1,036 Total 219,681 112,908 231,692 98,070 a Secured bank loans As at 31 December 2009, the balance corresponds to: i. Pre-shipment loans for a total amount of US$8,750,000 in Compaa Minera Ares and US$20,000,000 in Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
These obligations accrue an effective annual interest rate ranging from 1.05% to 4.75% and are guaranteed by the inventories and the trade receivables of the company refer to note 22.
Pre-shipments are credit lines given by the Banks to pay obligations related to the exports of the Group.
Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito for an amount of US$5,693,000 in Compaa Minera Ares.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate ranging from 6.80% to 7.60%.
Leasing agreement with BIF for an amount of US$3,016,000 in Compaa Minera Ares.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate ranging from 7.15% to 8.25%.
Leasing agreement with Interbank for an amount of US$296,000 in Compaa Minera Ares.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate of 9.01%.
The following table demonstrates the present value and maturity of future minimum lease payments as at 31 December 2009: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 4,406 2,705 Between 1 and 2 years 3,664 2,604 Between 2 and 5 years 935 1,898 Total 9,005 7,207 The following table demonstrates the reconciliation between the total minimum lease payments and the present value as at 31 December 2009 and 2008: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Present value of leases 9,005 7,207 Future interest 718 728 Total minimum lease payments 9,723 7,935 The carrying amount of net lease liabilities approximate their fair value.
v. Loan facility with a syndicate of lenders with JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. acting as the Administrative Agent.
Total secured term loan facility of US$200,000,000 that accrues an effective interest rate of LIBOR 1% and is guaranteed by all the equity share capital, free and clear of any liens, of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. The balance as at 31 December 2009 is comprised of the secured term loan facility of US$114,320,000 plus accrued interest of $1,787,000 and net of transaction costs of US$3,235,000.
During 2009 the Group signed a swap contract with BBVA and Citibank to fix the interest rate at 1.75%.
112 Accounts 26 BORROWINGS CONTINUED The Company has granted the following guarantees on its $114,320,000 bank syndicated loan: Pledge of all shares in Compaa Minera Ares wholly-owned subsidiary.
Subsidiary guarantees by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries whereby these subsidiaries guarantee with their cash flows the repayment of the loan.
The main administrative and financial covenants that the Company and Compaa Minera Ares must comply with during the term of the syndicated loan are as follows: Quarterly unaudited and annual audited financial statements for Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares.
Investments in restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries based on an agreed upon limit unlimited within restricted subsidiaries.
It is intended for every wholly-owned subsidiary to participate in the subsidiary guarantee.
Maintain the following ratios at a consolidated and Compaa Minera Ares level beginning on the date of execution of the agreement and during the term of effect of the loan: Interest expense coverage ratio greater than 3:1.
Debt to EBITDA ratio lower than 2.5:1 from 2009 onwards.
Compliance with the restrictive covenants described in the preceding paragraph is overseen by Compaa Minera Ares management and the Administrative Agent.
The Group and Compaa Minera Ares have complied with the commitments and financial covenants mentioned in the syndicated loan agreement.
As at 31 December 2008, the balance corresponded to: Pre-shipment loans for a total amount of US$18,380,000 in Compaa Minera Ares, US$11,280,000 in Compaa Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. and US$20,000,000 in Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
These obligations accrue an effective annual interest rate ranging from 5.55% to 8.70% and are guaranteed by the inventories of the Company refer to note 22. ii.
Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito for an amount of US$7,207,000 in Compaia Minera Ares.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate ranging from 6.80% to 7.45%.
Loan facility with a syndicate of lenders with JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. acting as the Administrative Agent.
Total secured term loan facility of US$200,000,000 that accrues an effective interest rate of LIBOR 1% and is guaranteed by all the equity share capital, free and clear of any liens, of Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. The balance as at 31 December 2008 is comprised of the secured-term loan facility of US$200,000,000 plus accrued interests of US$4,260,000 and net of transaction costs of US$2,408,000.
b Amounts due to minority shareholders As at 31 December 2009 the balance mainly corresponds to a loan from Minera Andes Inc. to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. for an amount of US$67,124,000 2008: US$62,105,000 with interests rates between 7.86% and 12%.
There is also a loan of US$8,446,000 to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. from Minera Andes S. A.
2008: US$7,902,000 with an interest rate of 12% refer to note 38 f. c Convertible bond payable Placement of US$115,000,000 of senior unsecured convertible bonds, due 2014, which are convertible into ordinary shares of Hochschild Mining plc.
The bonds have a coupon of 5.75% per annum payable semi-annually on 28 January and 28 July of each year.
The issuer has the option to call the bonds on or after 20 October 2012 and until maturity, in the event the trading price of the ordinary shares exceed 130% of the conversion price over a certain period.
In addition, the Group has the right to redeem the bonds if at any time the aggregate principal amount of the bonds outstanding is equal to or less than 15% of the aggregate principal amount of the bonds initially issued.
The following information has to be considered for the conversion into ordinary shares: Conversion premium: 35% above the Reference Share Price Reference Share Price: GBP 2.95 Initial Conversion Price: GBP 3.9825 Fixed Exchange Rate: US$1.59 GBP 1.00 The balance as at 31 December 2009 is comprised of the principal of US$115,000,000 plus accrued interest of US$1,663,000 and net of transaction costs of US$2,741,000 and the bond equity component of US$8,432,000.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: 113 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 BORROWINGS CONTINUED As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years 31,586 81,284 Between 2 and 5 years 188,095 150,408 Total 219,681 231,692 The carrying amount of short-term borrowings approximates their fair value.
The carrying amount and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount Fair values as at 31 December as at 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Bank loans Secured 115,854 202,094 116,358 213,408 Amounts due to minority interest and related parties fixed rates 29,598 33,263 Convertible bond payable 103,827 126,331 Total 219,681 231,692 242,689 246,671 114 Accounts 27 PROVISIONS Executive Provision Workers Contributions long-term for mine profit to Peruvian incentive 1 2 closure sharing Government plan Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2008 32,150 9,195 1,434 799 272 43,850 Increase to existing provision 2,105 4,273 944 302 962 8,586 Accretion resulting from unwinding of discount rate 669 669 Change in discount rate 4,042 4,042 Change in estimate 1,409 1,409 Payments 1,476 13,248 1,368 1,101 21 17,214 Foreign exchange 641 19 622 At 31 December 2008 38,899 861 991 1,213 41,964 Less current portion 1,379 861 991 1,046 4,277 Non-current portion 37,520 167 37,687 At 1 January 2009 38,899 861 991 1,213 41,964 Increase to existing provision 2,073 870 1,499 4,442 Accretion resulting from unwinding of discount rate 278 278 Change in discount rate 2,045 2,045 Change in estimate 27,020 27,020 Payments 2,831 948 956 371 5,106 Foreign exchange 78 12 30 60 Other 88 88 At 31 December 2009 61,321 1,996 893 2,371 66,581 Less current portion 6,640 1,996 893 1,876 11,405 Non-current portion 54,681 495 55,176 1 The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the expected date of depletion of each of the deposits.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure as at 31 December 2009 and 2008 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties in the timing for using this provision includes changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
During 2009 the Group made an internal review of the provision for mine closure for all its mining units.
Consequently, at 31 December 2009 an increase of US$27,020,000 has been recognised in the provision mainly related to changes in the waste dam and tailing dam closure plans, increased contractors costs and the construction of a new water treatment plant in Sipan mining unit.
From the total amount, US$15,220,000 has been recognised as an increase in the mine closure asset refer to note 16 and the remaining US$11,800,000 has been recognised within other expenses refer to note 12 3.
This increase in estimate relates to Ares unit US$2,212,000, Selene unit US$5,864,000, Sipan unit US$5,976,000, Arcata unit US$4,903,000, Pallancata unit US$5,038,000, Moris unit US$990,000, San Jos unit US$2,075,000, net by a decrease in the provision of San Felipe project US$38,000.
2 The 2007 Executive Long-Term incentive plan was replaced by a new plan with different variables.
To terminate the first plan, the Group paid to the employees under the plan an amount of US$1,101,000, during the first semester of 2008, recognising administrative expenses of US$275,000 and exploration expenses of US$27,000.
The new plan reduces the number of variables and only considers Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The plan comprises an amount to be paid in cash to participants depending on the achievement of the three-year performance measures during the performance period which ends on 31 December 2010.
The cash award will be held for an additional period and delivered 50% on 9 May 2011 and the remaining 50% on 9 May 2012, accumulating notional interest at the prevailing inter-bank interest rate.
Only employees who remain with the Company until these dates will have the right of the benefit, with some exemptions that have to be approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost of the long-term employee benefit.
There is no provision in 2009 and 2008 as TSR over the period did not reach the performance level required under the rules of the plan.
115 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 EQUITY a Share capital and share premium Authorised and issued share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2009 is as follows: Authorised Issued Class of shares Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares 500,000,000 125,000,000 338,085,226 84,521,307 The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2008 is as follows: Authorised Issued Class of shares Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares 500,000,000 125,000,000 307,350,226 76,837,557 At 31 December 2009 and 2008, all issued shares with a par value of 25p 2009: weighted average of US$0.469, 2008: weighted average of US$0.476 per share each were fully paid.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person and by proxy has one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share of which they are the holder proxy.
The changes in share capital are as follows: Share Share Number capital Premium of shares US$000 US$000 Shares issued as at 1 January 2008 307,350,226 146,466 395,928 Shares issued as at 31 December 2008 307,350,226 146,466 395,928 Shares issued and paid pursuant to the placing of shares dated 12 October 2009 30,735,000 12,171 Shares issued as at 31 December 2009 338,085,226 158,637 395,928 On 12 October 2009 a share placement was completed and 30,735,000 shares with an aggregate nominal value of US$12,171,000 were issued for a cash consideration of US$140,168,000 net of transaction costs of US$3,453,000.
The share placement was effected through a structure which resulted in the excess of the net proceeds received over the nominal value of the share capital issued being transferred to retained earnings.
b Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Under IAS 39, the Group classifies its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets and are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
Unrealised gain loss in the initial valuation of derivative instruments classified as hedging instruments Correspond to the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument refer to note 2 aa Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
116 Accounts 29 DEFERRED INCOME TAX The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December Restated 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 12,619 17,325 Income statement debit credit 3,543 5,370 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in equity 71 664 Initial balance of deferred tax liability of Southwestern Group 3,663 Foreign exchange effect 294 End of the year 5,190 12,619 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset during the year is as follows: Differences in cost Mine Financial of PP&E development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities: At 1 January 2008 restated 5,192 5,069 3,305 2,829 16,395 Income statement credit charge restated 851 6,610 1,405 523 3,831 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 664 664 At 31 December 2008 restated 4,341 11,679 1,236 2,306 19,562 Income statement credit charge 1,186 4,977 366 1,447 4,350 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 71 71 Foreign exchange 294 294 Arising on acquisition 3,663 3,663 At 31 December 2009 5,527 20,613 799 859 27,798 Differences Provision in cost for mine Mine Tax Interest of PP&E closure development losses payable Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets: At 1 January 2008 restated 4,107 4,855 1,849 14,152 3,628 4,910 33,501 Income statement credit charge restated 2,059 887 1,849 2,593 3,640 654 1,320 At 31 December 2008 restated 2,048 5,742 11,559 7,268 5,564 32,181 Income statement credit charge 7,759 770 8,789 942 1,665 807 At 31 December 2009 9,807 4,972 2,770 8,210 7,229 32,988 117 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 DEFERRED INCOME TAX CONTINUED The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the statement of financial position, are as follows: As at 31 December Restated 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 15,852 21,871 Deferred income tax liabilities 10,662 9,192 Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 1 Recognised : Expire in one year 1,100 Expire in two years 763 4,598 Expire in three years 607 6,458 Expire in four years 849 20,080 Expire after four years 6,044 2,360 9,363 33,496 Unrecognised: Expire in one year 543 1,625 Expire in two years 1,411 1,646 Expire in three years 3,137 2,280 Expire in four years 2,667 4,035 Expire after four years 53,231 41,355 60,989 50,941 Total tax losses recognised and unrecognised 70,352 84,437 1 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that they are expected to be offset against taxable profits arising in future periods, based on the profit forecasts prepared by management.
Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprises gross amounts : As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 44,611 20,641 Impairments of available-for-sale financial assets 11,421 2 Interest expense and exchange difference loss 13,686 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which it is expected that there will not be taxable profits against which the expenditure can be offset.
2 Corresponds to interest expense and exchange difference loss in respect of the project finance loan payable to Minera Andes Inc. refer to note 14 8.
Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings Due to the statutory tax regime in the countries in which the Groups operating companies are tax residents, there are no temporary differences in respect of undistributed reserves for which a deferred tax liability should be recognised.
118 Accounts 30 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED Amount US$000 Year ended 31 December 2008 1 Total dividends paid or provided for during the year 28,531 2 Total dividends declared after year-end and not provided for 6,147 Year ended 31 December 2009 3 Total dividends paid during the year 20,048 Total dividends declared after year-end and not provided for 13,523 1 Corresponds to dividends paid and provided during 2008 of US$22,184,667 and US$6,147,005, and the payment of accrued dividends as at 31 December 2007 of US$200,000 to Dona Limited for dividends declared in 2006.
2 Corresponds to dividends declared after 31 December 2008 to Pelham Investment Corporation, Navajo Overseas Corporation and public shareholders Parent companys shareholders.
3 Corresponds to dividends paid and provided during 2009 of US$6,147,005 and US$6,147,005, and dividends paid to minority shareholders of US$7,754,000.
Dividends per share The dividends declared in August 2009 were US$6,147,005 US$0.020 per share.
A dividend in respect of the year ending 31 December 2009 of US$0.04 per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$13,523,409 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2010.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
31 RELATED-PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company, joint ventures or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable at 31 December at 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Other Fosfatos del Pacfico S. A.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related party balances.
119 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 RELATED-PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Income Recovery of expenses 34 Expenses Purchase of supplies 39 Services received 2 During 2008, in addition to the normal arrangements the Group has with its related parties, the Group purchased a building from Cementos Pacasmayo, a company under common control to that of the Group, for US$3,622,000 representing an arms length purchase price.
Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the senior management team and Directors who receive remuneration.
As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Salaries and bonuses 8,596 8,718 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 8,596 8,718 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the parent company of the Group of US$5,870,520 2008: US$3,847,865, out of which US$399,117 2008: US$463,218 relates to pension payments.
The Group made a loan to one of the Directors of US$200,000 with an interest rate of 7.45% until 30 April 2009, 3.50% from 1 May 2009 to 31 July 2009 and 3.00% from 1 August 2009.
The balance as at 31 December was US$227,214, composed of principal of US$200,000 and interest of US$27,214.
The Group did not collect any amount of this loan.
c Participation in placing by Pelham Investment Corporation Pelham Pelham, a company controlled by Eduardo Hochschild, participated in a placing of the Companys Ordinary Shares Shares in October 2009 by subscribing for 1,064,780 Shares at a price of 295p per Share.
32 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 is as follows: Ernst & Young Others year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 1,443 2,332 30 7 Other services relating to taxation 206 410 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 94 263 Other services 106 Total 1,743 3,111 30 7 1 Includes US$703,000 2008: US$1,178,000 relating to the audit fees of the parent company together with a proportion of the fees in relation to the consolidated Group audit which has been incurred by the parent company.
In 2009, US$1,650,000 are included in administrative expenses, within the professional fees caption refer to note 8.
US$66,910 are capitalised due to the Southwestern acquisition and US$55,815 are capitalised within the transactions costs related to the convertible bond issuance.
In 2008, all fees are included in administrative expenses, within the professional fees caption refer to note 8.
120 Accounts 33 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS As at 31 December Restated 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Loss profit for the year 121,340 21,540 Adjustments to reconcile Group operating profit to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation note 2 f 83,911 60,418 Amortisation of software licences 311 266 Impairment and write-off of assets net 26,713 30,212 Negative goodwill generated in acquisition of subsidiary 7,694 Gain loss on sale disposal of property, plant and equipment 153 252 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 11,421 Premium paid on purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 421 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 1,613 Share of post tax losses of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 47,223 8,214 Increase in provision for mine closure 11,526 3,216 Finance income 28,684 11,683 Finance costs 47,296 25,079 Income tax expense 33,470 19,267 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 1,535 654 Other 63 3,687 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities: Trade and other receivables 19,045 9,306 Income tax receivable 4,690 14,269 Derivative financial instruments 22,831 1,171 Inventories 4,507 4,861 Trade and other payables 3,771 20,016 Provisions 2,195 8,635 Cash generated from operations 215,698 102,167 Transactions that did not affect cash flows The main transactions that did not affect cash flows were the following: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Purchase of property, plant and equipment through leasing 6,058 7,872 121 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 COMMITMENTS a Gold and silver future contracts Silver Quantity as at 31 December 2009 Quotation period 2009 2008 Type of Quotation Organisation ounces ounces contract US$ oz From to January INTL Commodities Inc 157,300 Forward 10.19 2009 Total 157,300 Gold Quantity as at 31 December 2009 Quotation period 2009 2008 Type of Quotation Organisation ounces ounces contract US$ oz From To January INTL Commodities Inc 2,950 Forward 815.06 2009 Total 2,950 The contracts mentioned above are not fair valued in the books as they were entered into for the purpose of the delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the Groups expected sales requirements.
b Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial requirements.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the statement of financial position date are as follows: As at 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 560 1,293 More than one year 10,436 19,192 Some of the significant transactions are explained below: i Ventura Gold Corp. On 8 January 2007, the Group granted an option to Ventura Gold Corp Ventura for the acquisition of an interest in the Inmaculada property, located in Peru.
Under the option and joint venture agreement signed on 13 August 2007, in order to acquire an initial 51% controlling interest, Ventura was required to complete a total of 15,000 metres of drilling at the property and issue a total of 1,000,000 common shares to the Group within a three-year period.
On 19 December 2008 Ventura exercised its option to acquire 51% of the project having completed its drilling requirement.
From the 1,000,000 common shares required to be issued to the Group, only 300,000 shares have been issued as at 31 December 2008 and the remaining 700,000 have been issued during 2009.
The total shares received by the Group are disclosed as Available-for-sale financial assets.
During 2009, the Group decided not to exercise its option to become the operator of the project and to buy back 11% for a payment to Ventura of three times the total investment made in drilling and related exploration work.
Following the Groups decision, as stipulated in the contract, Ventura elected to increase its controlling interest by an additional 19%, upon the completion of a feasibility study on the project before 23 October 2013.
122 Accounts 34 COMMITMENTS CONTINUED ii IAMGOLD On 20 December 2007, the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with IAMGOLD Corporation IAMGOLD to explore and develop minerals in the two groups of properties located in Argentina, which comprise the projects Santa Cruz-Ro Negro and Can del Moro.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 70% interest in each group of properties by investing US$200,000 and US$1,500,000 within two years and completing a pre-feasibility study on the properties before the end of the seventh and sixth year for Santa Cruz and Can del Moro, respectively.
The Group can withdraw from the agreement without incurring any further expenditures or penalties.
iii Andina Minerals Chile Limitada Encrucijada Project On 31 January 2008, the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with Andina Minerals Chile Ltda.
Andina to earn a 51% interest in respect of the Encrucijada project located in Chile.
A payment of US$500,000 was made to Andina upon signing of the agreement.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 51% interest in the project by investing US$3,000,000 within three years.
The Group cannot withdraw from the agreement without investing a minimum of US$800,000 in the project.
At 31 December 2009, the Group has invested US$2,296,000 US$1,165,000 at 31 December 2008. iv Santos Bahamondes Latorre Casualidad Project On 4 March 2008, the Group entered into an option agreement with Santos Bahamondes Latorre Compaa Minera in order to acquire the mining rights of three groups of properties Juana I, Juana II and Casualidad located in Chile.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire the mining rights by making payments of US$1,000,000, US$1,000,000 and US$1,500,000 for Juana I, Juana II and Casualidad, respectively.
If the Group exercises its option it shall pay a 1.5% Net Smelter Return once commercial production begins.
v Iron Creek Capital Corp. Vaquillas Project On 24 September 2008, the Group signed a letter of intent with Iron Creek Capital Corp. Iron Creek in respect of an option and joint venture agreement to earn a 60% interest in the Vaquillas project, located in Chile.
A payment of US$750,000 was made to Iron Creek upon signing of the letter of intent.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 60% interest by incurring expenditure on exploration activities of US$6,000,000 over a five-year period and has to invest at least US$750,000 before withdrawing from the venture.
At 31 December 2009 the Group has invested US$1,668,000 no investment at 31 December 2008.
In addition, the Group participated in a private placement whereby the Group subscribed for shares in Iron Creek for a cash consideration of US$1,000,000, the proceeds of which will be invested in a specific area of the project the Porphiry Area in the two year period from the closing of the private placement.
vi IAMGOLD and Minera Mariana Argentina S. A.
Los Amigos On 5 November 2009, the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with IAMGOLD Corporation IAMGOLD and Minera Mariana Argentina S. A. Mariana to explore and develop minerals in the two groups of properties located in Argentina, which comprise the project Los Amigos.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 51% interest in each group of properties by investing US$1,500,000 within two years.
c Operating lease contract The Group has a number of operating lease agreements.
The lease expenditure charge to the income statement during the years 2009 and 2008 are included in the production costs and administrative expenses.
As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 1,777 1,365 Later than one year and not later than five years 2,431 1,593 123 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 COMMITMENTS CONTINUED d Finance lease contract During 2009 Compaa Minera Ares signed lease agreements for equipment with Banco fide Crdito del Per, Interbank and Banco Interamericano fide Finanzas.
During 2008 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. signed lease agreements for equipment with Banco fide Credito del Per refer to note 16 and 26.
As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 4,898 3,157 Later than one year and not later than five years 4,825 4,778 e Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Peru 147,378 31,860 Mexico 247 19 Argentina 14,900 14,112 162,525 45,991 35 CONTINGENCIES As at 31 December 2009, the Group had the following contingencies: a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions they have undertaken, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Other The Group has conducted its operations in the ordinary course of business in accordance with its understanding and interpretation, and based on advice of legal counsel, of applicable legislation in the countries where the Group has operations.
In certain specific transactions, however, the relevant authorities could have a different interpretation of those laws and regulations that could lead to contingencies or additional liabilities for the Group.
Having consulted legal counsel, management believes that it has reasonable grounds to support its position.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Uncertainties in estimating the liability includes changes in the legal interpretation that the authorities could make in respect of the Groups transactions.
124 Accounts 36 GUARANTEES AND TAX STABILITY AGREEMENTS a Compaa Minera Ares Ares Unit On 28 October 1999, the Ministry of Energy and Mines granted legal stability for the Ares operating unit, starting 1 January 1999 for a 10-year term, expiring on 31 December 2008.
Under this agreement, the Peruvian Government is obliged to guarantee legal stability to the Ares operating unit of the Company covering the following areas: Free trade of its products Removal of currency restrictions Stability of tax rates Fixed rate on the annual validity fee or good standing payment for mining concessions As a result of the Ares stability agreement, Ares paid income tax in Peru at a rate of 30% in respect of income generated by the Ares operating unit, and the annual validity fee or good standing payment for mining concessions were fixed at the rate of US$2.00 per hectare per year.
The Ares operating unit was exempt from paying the governmental royalties covered by Law 28258 Mining Royalties Law with respect to revenues generated at the Ares operating unit for so long as the stability agreement remains in effect.
The expiration of the agreement results in the Ares unit being subject to the actual tax law and Mining Royalties law from 1 January 2009.
The current tax rate is 30%, therefore there is no effect related to the expiration of the stability agreement.
Arcata Unit On 31 July 2007, the Ministry of Energy and Mines granted legal stability to Compaa Minera Ares for the Arcata operating unit, starting 1 January 2009 for a 10-year term.
As a result of the stability agreement Compaa Minera Ares will pay income tax in Peru at a rate of 32% in respect of income generated by the Arcata operating unit.
The Peruvian Government is obliged to guarantee stability of the tax regime that was in effect as at 5 February 2007, during the period of 10 years.
On 8 June 2009, Compaa Minera Ares resigned only the stability of tax rates, in conclusion the rate of 30% will be applied in respect of income generated by the Arcata operating unit.
b Minera Santa Cruz Minera Santa Cruz has been granted with two tax stability certificates in relation to provincial and national taxes in Argentina in respect of the San Jos project.
The stability certificates run for a 30-year period commencing on 21 November 2005.
Under these certificates, Minera Santa Cruzs tax stability in respect of the San Jos operating unit covers, among others, the following areas: The mining royalty cannot exceed 3% of the pit-head value of the production: however, it must be noted that the Provincial Government may not agree with such construction and, on the contrary, may argue that the tax stability does not cover the mining royalty.
So far, in accordance with such 3% cap, the Provincial Government fixed the mining royalty applicable to the San Jos operating unit at: i 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production when the final product is dor: and ii 2.55% of the pit-head value of the production when the final product is mineral concentrate or precipitates.
The National Export tax is 5% when the final product is dor and 10% when the final product is gold or silver concentrate although rebates are available for the first three years, if shipped from port 3%, 2% and 1% rebate for years 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively.
Income tax rate not higher than 35%.
125 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37 MINING ROYALTY Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources.
Mining royalties are calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrate or equivalent, based on the quoted market prices.
As at 31 December 2009, the amount payable as mining royalties for the mining units of Ares, Arcata, Selene, and Pallancata amounted to approximately US$1,988,000 Selene, Arcata and Pallancata amounted to US$876,000 at 31 December 2008, and is recorded under the caption Trade and other payables in the statement of financial position.
Management, having consulted with legal counsel, is of the opinion that the Ares mining unit has not been affected by this law and therefore need not make any royalty payments or provisions for such payments until 31 December 2008 due to the fact that it has the legal stability agreement refer to note 36.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinian legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to request royalties from mine operators.
For San Jos, the mining royalty is fixed at 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production where the final product is dor and 2.55% where the final product is mineral concentrate or precipitates.
As at 31 December 2009, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$204,000 2008: US$136,000.
38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
The Group has made significant developments in the management of the Group's risk environment which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, the Country General Managers and the head of the internal audit function.
The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy on risk management and internal control in support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
a Foreign currency risk The Group principally produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pounds sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Argentine pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
Increase decrease in Effect US$ other on profit Effect currencies before tax on equity Year rate US$000 US$000 2009 Pounds sterling 10% 194 Argentinian pesos 10% 22 Mexican pesos 10% 400 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 3,431 2008 Pounds sterling 10% 430 1 Argentinian pesos 10% 1,362 Mexican pesos 10% 48 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 1,161 Canadian dollars 10% 75 205 1 Minera Santa Cruz, one of the Groups subsidiaries which is the legal owner of the San Jos mine, had debts denominated in US dollars.
As Minera Santa Cruzs functional currency was the peso during 2008, the translation of this loan into pesos created a loss.
Following the commencement of operations the Group was required to change the functional currency of Minera Santa Cruz to US dollars and, as a result, these loans were no longer being exposed to foreign currency risk.
126 Accounts 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED b Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: thus, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
Whilst committed to being un-hedged, management continuously monitors silver and gold prices but shall take the necessary action, where appropriate and within Board approved parameters, to mitigate the impact of this risk.
As a result of the financial crisis, the Company found itself constrained in its ability to use its cash balance given uncertainty surrounding commodity prices.
Authorisation was granted to hedge a portion of the Group's 2009 and 2010 production schedule in order to allow the Company to free-up its cash balance in order to pursue higher growth opportunities through acquisition and strategic investments.
The Group also has embedded derivatives arising from the sale of concentrate and dor which were provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded refer to notes 6 and 23 3.
For these derivatives sales price adjustments and hedges, the sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Increase Effect decrease on profit price of before tax Year ounces of: US$000 2009 Gold 550 10% Silver 1,534 10% 766 2008 Gold 157 10% Silver 2,063 10% c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and non-compliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the statement of financial position date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, cash balances in banks and hedging activities as at 31 December 2009: Credit As at rating or % 31 December collected as 2009 at 23 March Summary commercial partners US$000 2009 Consorcio Minero S. A. Cormin 21,628 92% Teck Cominco Metals Ltd 17,481 BB Doe Run Per S. R. L. 1,108 0% Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 29,040 91% LS Nikko.
4,922 A1 MRI Trading AG 2,078 98% Johnson Matthey Inc. 605 100% Argor Heraus S. A.
116 100% Others 3 NA 76,981 127 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, cash balances in banks and hedging activities as at 31 December 2008: As at 31 December 2008 Credit Summary commercial partners US$000 rating Consorcio Minero S. A. Cormin 16,382 NA Teck Cominco Metals Ltd 13,902 BBB Louis Dreyfus Per S. A.
7,143 NA Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 6,606 NA Sudamericana Trading S. R. L. 3,129 NA Others 186 NA 47,348 As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Hedging counterparties US$000 US$000 Citibank 2,032 490 INTL Commodities Inc. 186 JP Morgan 420 Total 2,452 304 As at 31 December 2009 Credit Financial counterparties US$000 rating JP Morgan 13,024 A -1 S&P Citibank 40,348 A -1 S&P Banco Nacional fide Mxico 5,350 F1 FR Banco fide Crdito del Per 11,691 F2 FR Banco fide la Nacin Peru 1,072 A S&P Banco Santander 1,001 A -1 S&P Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 199 A -1 S&P Scotiabank 67 A - 3 S&P HSBC 818 B S&P Others including Cash in hand 4,274 NA Total 77,844 128 Accounts 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As at 31 December 2008 Credit US$000 rating JP Morgan 93,131 Aa1 Citibank 8,061 A1 Banamex 5,460 Aa3 Banco fide Crdito del Per 2,966 Baa2 Banco Bilbao Viscaya Argentaria 745 Aa1 Banorte 66 BBB Others including Cash in hand 5,718 NA Total 116,147 As a result of the recent and ongoing financial crisis, the Group has evaluated and introduced additional efforts to try to mitigate credit risk exposure.
To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group has implemented the following options: Active use of prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts.
Delaying delivery of title and or advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition.
Obtaining parent guarantees to shore up the credit profile of the customer where possible.
Maintaining a diversified portfolio of clients as diversified as possible.
Evaluating the credit worthiness of customers.
Limiting delivery of product to the extent possible based on open exposures.
To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group has implemented the following options: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk.
Investing cash to the extent possible with counterparties with whom the Group has debt outstanding.
Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts.
Maintaining excess cash abroad in hard currency.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 21.
129 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments excluding embedded derivatives from provisionally priced sales, with all other variables held constant: Effect Increase on profit Effect decrease in before tax on equity Year prices US$000 US$000 2009 10% 1,917 10% 1,917 2008 10% 1,615 730 10% 1,391 730 As at 31 December 2009, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
31 December Level 3 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Embedded derivatives refer to note 23 3 695 695 Available-for-sale financial assets refer to note 20 Equity shares 19,173 7,430 11,743 Debt securities 8 8 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Embedded derivatives refer to note 23 3 175 175 Zero cost collars contracts refer to note 23 5 2,452 2,452 Swap contracts refer to note 23 6 13 13 During the period ending 31 December 2009, there were no transfers between these levels.
e Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of short and medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
In 2009 the Group increased its short term bank lines by over 30% in addition to accessing further long-term financing through the issue of equity and convertible bonds.
130 Accounts 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The table below categorises the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date: Between Between Less than 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables 68,501 81 68,582 Borrowings 123,412 39,819 209,178 372,409 Total 191,913 39,900 209,178 440,991 At 31 December 2008 Trade and other payables 82,359 402 292 83,053 Borrowings 102,705 98,800 161,792 363,297 Total 185,064 99,202 162,084 446,350 f Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
It is important to note that currently all existing financial obligations are either at fixed rates or have been fixed with the use of derivatives.
As at 31 December 2009 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 24 1,430 1,430 Time deposits note 24 7,673 7,673 Loans to minority shareholders note 21 39,443 39,443 Amounts due to minority shareholders note 26 75,570 75,570 Secured bank loans note 26 34,773 31,586 84,268 150,627 Convertible bond payable note 26 1,663 103,827 105,490 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 24 12,994 12,994 131 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As at 31 December 2008 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 24 171 171 Time deposits note 24 8,278 8,278 Loans to minority shareholders note 21 6,502 22,269 8,062 36,833 Amounts due to minority shareholders note 26 40,409 22,248 7,350 70,007 Secured bank loans note 26 52,365 2,604 1,898 56,867 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 24 93,131 93,131 Secured bank loans note 26 4,260 56,432 141,160 201,852 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate.
The Group is exposed to the fluctuation of rates expressed in US dollars.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2009 and 2008 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
Increase Effect decrease on profit interest before tax Year rate US$000 2009 50bps 490 2008 50bps 520 g Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third parties refer to notes 26 and 28.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
In addition to such controls, management and the Board have decided to secure commodity prices in 2010 in order to guarantee an appropriate capital level and shareholder return.
132 Accounts 39 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS a On 6 May 2006, the Group signed an agreement with Silex Argentina S. A. Silex, a wholly owned subsidiary of Golden Minerals Company Golden Minerals to explore and develop minerals in a group of properties located in Argentina, which comprise the project El Quevar.
The initial interest held by the Group was 35%, which was subsequently reduced to 20% in exchange for Silex funding the feasibility study.
On 30 December 2009, the Group entered into an agreement with Golden Minerals and Silex to sell its interest in the project in exchange for 400,000 common shares and a warrant to purchase 300,000 common shares of Golden Minerals at a price per share of US$15.
The agreement was subject to certain conditions precedent that did not take place until 7 January 2010. b On 16 February 2010, the Group acquired 1,273,036 shares of its associate Lake Shore for CAD$5,130,000 approximately US$4,920,000.
After completion of the transaction, the Groups ownership in Lake Shore increased from 35.69% to 35.92%.
c Between 26 January 2010 and 5 February 2010 the Group acquired 440,500 shares of its associate Gold Resource Corp. for US$$4,322,000 in the open market.
In addition, on 8 March 2010 the Group signed a subscription agreement with Gold Resource Corp. by which the Group acquired 600,000 shares for a total consideration of US$5,172,000.
Following completion of these purchases, the Groups ownership in its associate increased from 25% to 26.7%.
d On 9 February 2010, the Group signed an engagement letter with BMO Capital Markets Limited BMO for the sale of the San Felipe project, the Groups zinc project located in northern Mexico.
e On 5 March 2010, Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A. a related party of the Group, purchased Hochschild Mining plcs 36.9% stake in Zincore at a price of C$0.27 per share representing a 11.6% premium over the 20 day average closing price.
Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A. paid a total cash consideration of C$10,287,000.
As a result of the transaction, Hochschild Mining plc has no further interest in Zincore.
The disposal was approved on behalf of the Hochschild board by a committee comprising solely independent Non-Executive Directors the Independent Committee.
The Independent Committee has been advised by Canaccord Adams Limited that the terms of the disposal are fair and reasonable as far as shareholders are concerned.
f On 11 March 2009 the Group has filed suit in the New York State Supreme Court asking that Minera Andes Inc. MAI and its subsidiary Minera Andes SA MASA be required to execute the formal loan agreement documents in respect of the US$65 million project finance loan.
This facility was provided by the Group to one of its subsidiaries Minera Santa Cruz S. A. for the development of the San Jos operation in Argentina.
The law suit lists the following causes of action: i a decree by the court requiring MASA and its parent company to execute formal loan agreement documents with the Group consistent with the previous agreements between the two companies, ii it asks that MAI and MASA be enjoined from further interference in the repayment of the project finance loan, iii asks the court to order payment to the Group of benefits derived by MAI and MASA as a result of the loan, and iv requests an order declaring that other shareholder loans are subordinate to the project finance loan.
