GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Operating Board 1 Maria Thompson Paul Loft Greg Ball Oliver Stocken Commercial Director Managing Director, Homebase Managing Director, Financial Services Chairman 3 Gordon Bentley Peter Connor Eugene Brazil Richard Ashton Company Secretary Information Systems Director Managing Director, Customer Services Finance Director 5 Sarah Carpenter David Guise Sara Weller Andy Hornby Director of Strategic Development Human Resources Director Managing Director, Argos Non-Executive Director Sarah Carpenter left the Group at the end of February.
Eugene Brazil retires from the business at the end of October.
50 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Board of Directors 1 Oliver Stocken 2 Terry Duddy Chairman Chief Executive Oliver was a director of NM Rothschild & Sons Terry began his career at Letraset, working in personnel and held several roles within Barclays Group management and then in product management.
In culminating in his appointment as group finance 1984, he joined Dixons Stores Group where he held director of Barclays PLC.
In 2000, he was appointed to a variety of commercial positions, including sales the GUS board where he chaired the audit committee director of Currys, product marketing director of and subsequently the remuneration committee.
In Dixons Stores Group and, latterly, managing director October 2006, he became chairman of Home Retail of PC World.
Terry joined GUS in August 1998 as chief Group.
He is deputy chairman of 3i Group plc, a executive of the newly acquired Argos, becoming a non-executive director of Standard Chartered plc GUS director later that year.
In 2000, he was appointed 2 and chairman of Stanhope plc and Oval Limited.
chief executive of Argos Retail Group.
In October 2006, Terry Duddy Oliver is also chairman of the Trustees of the he became chief executive of Home Retail Group.
Chief Executive Natural History Museum.
3 Richard Ashton 4 Penny Hughes Finance Director Non-Executive Director Richard started his career at  Penny spent ten years with Coca Cola, initially as LLP where he trained as a chartered accountant.
In marketing director and ultimately as president of 1994, he joined GE where he spent eight years and held Coca-Cola GB & Ireland.
She has held a number of a variety of positions.
These included chief financial non-executive roles on the boards of international of cer of GE Capitals pan-European equipment businesses such as Vodafone, Trinity Mirror, Body Shop nancing business, headquartered in The Netherlands, and Reuters, and will leave the GAP board at the end of assistant to GE Capitals chief financial of cer in the May 2009.
Currently, she serves on the board of the US and various finance roles in the UK.
Richard joined Swedish bank Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken.
She is Argos Retail Group as finance director in November president of the Advertising Association and a trustee 2001.
In October 2006, he became finance director of the British Museum.
Penny joined the Board of 4 of Home Retail Group.
Home Retail Group in December 2006.
Penny Hughes Non-Executive Director 5 Andy Hornby 6 John Coombe Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Andy began his career at Boston Consulting Group John held a number of senior financial roles within before joining Blue Circle as business development Charterhouse Group plc and Charter Consolidated plc director, Blue Circle Home Products.
Following a before joining Glaxo Holdings in 1986.
Appointed to move to ASDA he held a number of senior general the board in 1992, he was ultimately chief financial management roles, including managing director of of cer of GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring George, ASDAs clothing business.
He joined the GUS board in April 2005.
Andy joined the board of Halifax as chief executive, He became a non-executive director of Home Retail Halifax Retail.
Andy was chief executive of HBOS plc Group in October 2006.
He is the senior independent from August 2006 until the takeover by Lloyds TSB in director and chairs the audit committee of Home Retail January 2009.
Andy joined the GUS board in January Group.
He is a non-executive director of HSBC 2004.
He became a non-executive director of Home Holdings, chairman of Hogg Robinson Group and a Retail Group in October 2006.
Andy chairs the former member of the Code Committee of the Panel remuneration committee of Home Retail Group.
Until 2003, he was a 6 member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
He is also a trustee of the Royal Academy of Arts John Coombe Non-Executive Director Trust, where he chairs the audit committee.
COMMITTEES Nomination Committee: Audit Committee: Oliver Stocken Chairman, John Coombe, John Coombe Chairman, Terry Duddy, Andy Hornby, Penny Hughes Andy Hornby, Penny Hughes Remuneration Committee: Andy Hornby Chairman, John Coombe, Penny Hughes, Oliver Stocken Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 51
