FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England under the Companies Act 1985 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Home Retail Group is a home and general merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2009.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on the historic cost basis modi ed for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and nancing policies are controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other interested parties under a contractual agreement.
Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant in uence but not control.
The equity method is used to account for investments in joint ventures and associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its joint ventures and associates are included on the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses are recognised in its income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in a joint venture or associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the fide nition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Changes in accounting standards A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009, but have had no material impact on the results or the financial position of the Group.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
74 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 In addition, the Group has early-adopted the amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments relating to vesting conditions and cancellations.
The amendment clari es that vesting conditions are service and performance conditions only.
These conditions are now included in the grant date fair value.
All cancellations, whether by the Group or the individual, are subject to the same accounting treatment.
The effect of adopting this revised standard on the results from prior periods was not material, so comparative gures have not been restated.
As a result of early adoption of the revised standard an additional charge of 3.2m has been re ected in the current year, which has no impact on the tax charge.
At the balance sheet date a number of IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations were in issue but not yet effective.
Those relevant for the Group, if endorsed by the European Union, for the financial year beginning 1 March 2009 are listed below: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassi cation of Financial Instruments Improvements to IFRSs May 2008.
Those relevant for the Group, if endorsed by the European Union, for future financial years are listed below: IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items.
The impact on the Group of the above new standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective will be fully considered in due course, however it is considered unlikely that they will have a signi cant impact on the Groups financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, will, by fide nition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and assumptions that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Signi cant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension bene ts The present value of the fide ned bene t obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the fide ned bene t obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the year-end and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the year-end.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash out ows expected to be required to settle the fide ned bene t obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for fide ned bene t obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 24.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment loss, based on the recoverable amount, being the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The value-in-use calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash ows and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 14.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of assets Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Assets are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash ows from the asset at an appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes estimates of both the expected cash ows and an appropriate discount rate which use managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash ows will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
Provisions Provisions have been estimated for onerous leases, self insurance and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store or the incidence of insurance claims against the Group.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
Inventory provisions Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer accepts delivery.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Revenue is adjusted to show sales net of all related discounts.
Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
A provision for estimated returns is made, representing the pro t on goods sold during the year which will be returned and refunded after the year-end.
Interest income Interest income on customer store card accounts and loans is recognised as revenue on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
76 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
Group companies The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identi able net assets of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, re ecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satis ed.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the asset will generate probable future economic bene t. The cost of other intangible assets with nite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Brands Acquired brands have a nite useful life and are shown at their fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated to spread the cost of the brands over their estimated useful lives of 10 years on a straight-line basis.
This amortisation method re ects the pattern in which the assets future economic bene ts are expected to be consumed.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the speci c software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identi able and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic bene ts beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups businesses.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the period of the lease: and land is not depreciated.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Receivables Trade Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement immediately.
Financial services The gross margin from the sale of a retail product on extended credit terms is recognised at the time of the sale of the retail product.
The finance charges relating to the sale of financial services are included in the income statement as and when instalments are received.
Income under instalment agreements is credited to the income statement using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the original effective interest rate, and continues to recognise the unwinding of the discount as interest income.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost bases in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost or weighted average basis which approximates to actual cost.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash ow hedges relating to their purchase.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Current asset investments Current asset investments include cash on deposit held with banks, with original maturities of greater than three months.
Borrowings and borrowing costs All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value and other borrowing costs is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
78 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, if the deferred taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an out ow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an out ow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks speci c to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Provisions are made for onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading revenue is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Provisions are also made for legal claims, restructuring costs and estimated cost of claims incurred by the Groups captive insurance company but not settled at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases Leases in which a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Employee bene ts The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans is the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The fide ned bene t obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash out ows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a speci ed period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing support until the catalogue is launched, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year-end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are approved by the shareholders.
Insurance Certain of the Groups insurances are handled by the Groups captive insurance company, Global Guernsey Limited, which accounts for all insurance business on an annual basis and the net consolidated result is dealt with as part of the operating costs in these financial statements.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance placed with third parties and re-insurance premiums in respect of risks not retained by the Groups captive insurance company are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Financial instruments The Group classi es its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classi cation depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classi cation of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement Financial assets and liabilities at fair value are so designated by management on initial recognition.
Derivatives are generally designated as hedges.
Items in this category are classi ed as current assets or current liabilities if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classi ed as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and current asset investments in the balance sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classi ed in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Cash ow hedges The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash ow is expected to occur up to one year into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward currency exchange contracts hedging the Groups exposure to foreign currency liabilities is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
80 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
Non-GAAP financial information Exceptional items Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items are impairment charges, restructuring costs and the pro ts losses on the disposal of businesses.
Benchmark pro t before tax PBT The Group uses the term benchmark PBT as a measure which is not formally recognised under IFRS.
Benchmark PBT is fide ned as pro t before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges, exceptional items, costs related to demerger incentive schemes, nancing fair value remeasurements, nancing impact on retirement bene t balances, the discount unwind on non-benchmark items and taxation.
This measure is considered useful in that it provides investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
Total net debt The Group uses the term total net debt which is considered useful in that it provides the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably property leases.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risk factors There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group: market risk foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identi es, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure suf cient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and pro tably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors as well as subject to audit review.
Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in pro ts which could arise as a result of exchange rate uctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate competitive stance.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash ows up to one year forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash ows become certain.
For segment reporting purposes, each subsidiary designates contracts as fair value hedges or cash ow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated as hedges of foreign exchange risk on speci c assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
Weekly reports are made to management to demonstrate that this objective is being achieved.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to one year into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
If on 28 February 2009, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 3.5% 2008: approximately 2.5%, weaker stronger against the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax pro t would have been 6.7m lower higher 2008: 3.9m lower higher mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains arising on retranslation of US dollar denominated balances in subsidiary companies with a sterling functional currency.
Equity would have been 11.7m higher lower 2008: 5.3m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
If on 28 February 2009, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 4.4% 2008: approximately 3.8%, weaker stronger against the euro, with all other variables held constant, post-tax pro t would have been 5.0m lower higher 2008: 2.9m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on retranslation of sterling denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 0.4m lower higher 2008: 0.3m higher lower, arising mainly from foreign exchange gains or losses on retranslation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Market risk cash ow and fair value interest rate risk Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances on xed interest rates and oating rates, the Groups income and operating cash ows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group currently holds a net cash position and has undrawn borrowing facilities.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from the variance in market rate when deposits are made.
This risk is managed by combining overnight deposits with term deposits.
Interest rate risk also arises from any future long-term borrowings that it may incur.
Borrowings issued at xed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most bene cial effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on pro ts before tax.
The aim will normally be to manage interest rate risks by achieving a ratio of between 30% and 70% of net debt xed rate.
The Group had no borrowings at any point during the year.
Credit risk The Group has no signi cant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Customers are credit scored using an external credit agency.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major debit and credit cards or via in-house operated financial products.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with major banks and financial institutions.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are set for each organisation on a scale based on credit rating and maturity period.
82 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Group policy is that at the date that cash is deposited with major banks and financial institutions they must have a credit rating of at least AAStandard & Poors or Aaa Moodys and are subject to a maximum exposure of 50m.
For any organisation that holds a credit rating of AAA, the maximum exposure is 100m.
The policy was extended temporarily during the year to include banks with a rating of A, which bene ted from the Republic of Irelands State Guarantee Scheme, whilst that country maintained a AAA rating.
Amounts with a maturity of up to one year may be invested with sign off from the finance director but the Board may approve deposits with unlimited duration.
The above policy has been complied with throughout the year.
Where a term deposit has been made and the counterparty ratings have subsequently reduced, each relevant position has been reviewed and all decisions to maintain each position until the normal maturity date have been approved by the Board.
Since the year-end all term deposits have matured and been repaid, with the Groups cash balance deposited in overnight AAA rated money market funds.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings as follows: Cash and term deposits and current asset investment Cash and Current Bank and institution Bank and institution short term asset rating at rating at cash deposits investment a transaction date 28 February 2009 Maturity date m m AAA AAA n a 134.4 AA AA 7 April 2009 25.0 AA A 15 April 2009 75.0 A b A 7 April 2009 50.0 209.4 75.0 a The current asset investment comprises a term cash deposit invested for a period of nine months.
b Covered by the Republic of Irelands State Guarantee Scheme.
The Republic of Ireland maintained a credit rating of AAA Standard & Poors or Aaa Moodys at the date of the transaction and at the balance sheet date, but this has subsequently been reduced to a AA rating.
Marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts 2009 2008 Bank and institution rating m m AA 6.7 0.8 AA- 14.1 0.2 A 22.9 0.5 A 8.4 52.1 1.5 Of the 52.1m marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts held at the year-end, 84% will have matured within three months of the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding exibility.
Liquidity is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining suf cient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs.
At 28 February 2009, the Group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility available of 700m, 685m of which does not expire until 2013.
This facility includes a covenant related to adjusted benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
It is in place to enable the Group to finance its working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes, should the need arise.
The Group has not drawn down on the facility and has been in compliance with the requirements of the covenant throughout the year.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
At 28 February 2009 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 574.1 574.1 At 1 March 2008 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 596.6 596.6 When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an out ow of the currency being sold and an in ow of the currency being bought.
The table below analyses the Groups out ow and in ow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
At 28 February 2009 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts out ow 324.4 232.1 92.6 22.8 671.9 in ow 368.2 239.7 93.0 23.1 724.0 At 1 March 2008 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts out ow 256.6 200.9 86.1 543.6 in ow 256.7 201.1 83.9 541.7 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group nances its operations through a combination of retained pro ts, property leases and borrowing facilities where necessary.
The Group has signi cant liabilities through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
The Groups net debt varies signi cantly throughout the year due to trading seasonality, and the position as at 28 February 2009 is set out in the analysis of net cash debt on page 73.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 2009 2008 US dollar 1.77 2.00 1.43 1.99 Euro 1.22 1.43 1.13 1.31 84 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Primary reporting format business segments The Groups primary reporting format is by business segment.
This is in line with the current management structure, which re ects the different risks associated with the different businesses.
The Group is organised into three main business segments: Argos, Homebase and Financial Services, together with Central Activities.
Revenue earned from sales is disclosed by origin and is not materially different from revenue by destination.
52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Income statement Notes m m m m m Revenue 6 4,281.9 1,513.2 102.3 5,897.4 Pro t Operating pro t loss before exceptional items 303.6 14.9 6.1 32.6 292.0 Exceptional items 9 17.8 672.3 0.6 3.3 694.0 Segment result 285.8 657.4 5.5 35.9 402.0 Finance income 10 63.7 Finance expense 10 53.5 Net nancing income 10 10.2 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 17 2.4 Loss before tax 394.2 Taxation 11 18.9 Loss for the year 413.1 The result for Financial Services is after deducting funding costs of 13.6m note 10.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 81.7 53.0 134.7 Impairment of xed assets 16 152.2 152.2 Impairment of goodwill 14 381.7 381.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 22.7 1.4 0.6 24.7 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 16 61.9 49.0 110.9 Capital expenditure on intangible assets 15 39.6 1.2 3.9 44.7 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Income statement Notes m m m m m Revenue 6 4,320.9 1,568.5 95.4 5,984.8 Pro t Operating pro t loss before exceptional items 376.2 45.1 5.5 40.5 386.3 Exceptional items 9 19.4 20.2 0.8 Segment result 376.2 25.7 5.5 20.3 387.1 Finance income 10 62.3 Finance expense 10 25.0 Net nancing income 10 37.3 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 17 1.6 Pro t before tax 426.0 Taxation 11 131.4 Pro t for the year 294.6 The result for Financial Services is after deducting funding costs of 19.6m note 10.
As at 1 March 2008 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Balance sheet Notes m m m m m Segment assets 1,280.1 686.7 459.1 273.2 2,699.1 Investment in joint ventures and associates 17 7.7 7.7 Taxation 63.5 63.5 Goodwill 14 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Total assets 2,432.4 1,457.1 459.1 344.4 4,693.0 Segment liabilities 743.8 432.1 56.1 0.3 1,232.3 Taxation 115.5 115.5 Total liabilities 743.8 432.1 56.1 115.8 1,347.8 Net assets 1,688.6 1,025.0 403.0 228.6 3,345.2 Less: goodwill 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Net operating assets 536.3 254.6 403.0 228.6 1,422.5 86 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 71.3 55.6 126.9 Impairment of xed assets 16 10.3 10.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 21.1 3.0 0.6 24.7 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 16 80.9 95.4 176.3 Capital expenditure on intangible assets 15 29.8 4.5 0.7 35.0 Geographical segments The Group trades predominantly in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and consequently the majority of revenues, capital expenditure and segment assets arise there.
ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 m m Sale of goods 5,795.1 5,889.4 Provision of services by Financial Services 102.3 95.4 Total 5,897.4 5,984.8 7.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES 52 weeks ended 28 F ebruary 2009 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 Before Exceptional After Before Exceptional After exceptional items exceptional exceptional items exceptional items note 9 items items note 9 items Expenses by function m m m m m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling costs 1,444.4 301.7 1,746.1 1,405.8 19.4 1,425.2 Administrative costs 287.2 392.3 679.5 311.7 20.2 291.5 Total net operating expenses 1,731.6 694.0 2,425.6 1,717.5 0.8 1,716.7 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Expenses by nature Notes m m Loss pro t before tax is stated after charging crediting: Operating lease rental expense Plant and equipment 9.8 9.8 Property 363.0 335.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 3,742.8 3,758.0 Write down of inventories 131.0 123.0 Pro t loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 134.7 126.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 24.7 24.7 Employee bene t costs 8 776.9 768.1 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 7.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES CONTINUED 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Auditors remuneration m m Audit services: Fees payable for the audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.8 Other services: Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 services relating to taxation 0.1 0.2 all other services 0.2 0.1 Total fees payable to  LLP 1.2 1.2 The above disclosure is presented in accordance with SI 2005 2417, where audit fees in respect of the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation are included within other services.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS AND EMPLOYEE NUMBERS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Employee costs Notes m m Wages and salaries a 686.7 670.6 Social security costs 42.3 42.9 Post-employment bene ts 24 26.6 33.0 Share-based payments 29 21.3 21.6 776.9 768.1 a Includes exceptional reorganisation costs.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 1 March 2008 Number of Full time Number of Full time Average numbers of employees employees equivalent employees equivalent Argos 33,199 17,811 32,976 17,749 Homebase 19,951 11,455 19,678 11,618 Financial Services 553 487 498 435 Central Activities 42 41 45 44 53,745 29,794 53,197 29,846 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Key management compensation m m Short-term employee bene ts 2.8 5.2 Post-employment bene ts 1.4 1.5 Share-based payments 3.7 6.3 7.9 13.0 Key management consists of the members of the Home Retail Group plc Board and the managing directors of both retail businesses.
88 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 9.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 m m Goodwill impairment a 381.7 Store impairment charges b 152.2 10.3 Onerous lease provisions c 117.3 Costs relating to the post-acquisition integration of the Focus DIY stores d 7.6 9.1 Reorganisation and restructuring charges e 35.2 Accrual release relating to incentive schemes f 20.2 Exceptional items in operating loss pro t 694.0 0.8 Tax on exceptional items in loss pro t before tax 58.8 1.0 Exceptional corporation tax credit g 27.4 12.6 Exceptional deferred tax charge h 3.9 5.9 Exceptional tax 82.3 5.7 Exceptional loss pro t for the year 611.7 6.5 a Management has interpreted the economic environment and resulting retail downturn as an external indicator of impairment.
As a result, and as required by IAS 36, the assets of the business have been subject to an impairment review.
Details of the goodwill value-in-use calculations can be found in note 14.
As a result of the value-in-use calculations an impairment charge of 381.7m has been booked against the carrying value of the Homebase goodwill.
b As a result of the impairment review, certain assets have been written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The growth rates and discount rates used are consistent with those used in the goodwill calculations, as disclosed in note 14.
For the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009, this resulted in a net impairment charge in respect of the Homebase store portfolio of 152.2m.
c The onerous lease provisions cover potential liabilities for onerous lease contracts for stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading income is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower the provisions are based on the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted at a pre-tax rate of 5.8%, relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected sublet income.
For the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009, this resulted in an onerous lease charge in respect of the Homebase store portfolio of 117.3m.
d Represents costs relating to the post-acquisition integration of certain of the Focus DIY stores acquired in the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008. e Represents costs relating to the reorganisation and restructuring programme during the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009.
Actions taken include a streamlining of head of ce functions across all parts of the Group, restructuring of store-based staff and a consolidation of home delivery warehouses.
f Represents the release of an accrual in respect of previous GUS-related long-term incentive schemes which were settled in June 2007. g Represents the recognition of a corporation tax credit arising from the revision and agreement of prior year tax computations and the completion of a periodic review of the tax risks associated with the Groups overseas trading operations.
h The deferred tax charge of 3.9m represents the reversal of a deferred tax asset created on IFRS transition.
The prior year charge of 5.9m represents an additional deferred tax charge arising from the re-estimation of qualifying assets in respect of accelerated tax depreciation, following the agreement of prior year tax computations.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 10.
NET FINANCING INCOME COSTS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 m m Finance income: Bank deposits and other interest 18.6 18.8 Expected return on retirement bene t assets 45.1 43.5 Total finance income 63.7 62.3 Finance expense: Interest cost of perpetual securities 3.3 Unwinding of discounts a 4.3 1.8 Financing fair value remeasurements: net losses on financial instruments 0.9 net exchange losses 28.9 8.1 Interest expense on retirement bene t liabilities 33.9 30.5 Total finance expense 67.1 44.6 Less: finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 13.6 19.6 Total net finance expense 53.5 25.0 Net nancing income 10.2 37.3 a Included within unwinding of discounts is a 1.8m charge 2008: nil relating to the discount unwind on exceptional onerous lease provisions.
TAXATION 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Analysis of charge in year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 94.5 119.4 Double tax relief 1.6 1.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 27.7 17.8 Total current UK tax charge 65.2 99.9 Overseas tax 3.1 3.9 Total current tax charge 68.3 103.8 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53.6 17.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.2 11.2 Rate change impact 1.0 Total tax expense in income statement 18.9 131.4 90 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Factors affecting the tax charge The effective tax rate for the year of 4.8% 2008: 30.8%, is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% 2008: 30.0%.
The differences are explained below: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 m m Loss pro t before tax 394.2 426.0 Loss pro t before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 110.4 127.8 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 153.3 14.2 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 0.2 3.0 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 23.5 6.6 Rate change impact 0.3 1.0 Total tax expense in income statement 18.9 131.4 Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be in uenced by the pro le of pro ts earned in the different tax jurisdictions within the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Exceptional tax see note 9 m m Exceptional loss pro t before tax 694.0 0.8 Exceptional loss pro t before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 194.3 0.2 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 135.5 0.8 Net exceptional tax credit in respect of prior years 23.5 6.7 Exceptional tax credit 82.3 5.7 12.
DIVIDENDS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders m m Final dividend of 10.0p per share 2008: 9.0p for the prior year 86.8 78.1 Interim dividend of 4.7p per share 2008: 4.7p for the current year 40.4 40.8 Ordinary dividends on equity shares 127.2 118.9 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 28 February 2009 of 10.0p per share, amounting to a total final dividend of 85.6m, has been recommended by the Board of Directors, and is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
This would make a total dividend for the year of 14.7p per share, amounting to 126.0m.
The recommended dividend has not been included as a liability at 28 February 2009 in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date.
It will be paid on 22 July 2009 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 22 May 2009.
The Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST has waived its entitlement to dividends in the amount of 1.8m 2008: 1.3m.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 13.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the pro t attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts, net of vested but unexercised options and share awards.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Earnings m m Loss pro t after tax for the financial year 413.1 294.6 Adjusted for: Exceptional items 694.0 0.8 Demerger incentive schemes 8.4 11.7 Financing fair value remeasurements 28.9 9.0 Financing impact on retirement bene t balances 11.2 13.0 Discount unwind on exceptional onerous lease provisions 1.8 Attributable taxation 61.1 0.4 Net exceptional tax credit in respect of prior years 23.5 6.7 Benchmark pro t after tax for the financial year 224.2 294.4 Weighted average number of shares millions millions Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 866.6 867.7 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 10.4 9.6 Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 877.0 877.3 EPS pence pence Basic EPS 47.7 34.0 Diluted EPS a 47.7 33.6 Basic benchmark EPS 25.9 33.9 Diluted benchmark EPS 25.6 33.6 a In accordance with IAS 33, as the Group made a loss after tax for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009, the effect of share incentive awards is anti-dilutive and as such diluted EPS equals basic EPS.
92 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 14.
GOODWILL Argos Homebase Total m m m Cost At 2 March 2008 and 28 February 2009 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Impairment At 2 March 2008 Charge for the year 381.7 381.7 At 28 February 2009 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 28 February 2009 1,152.3 388.7 1,541.0 Argos Homebase Total m m m Cost At 4 March 2007 1,152.3 726.6 1,878.9 Additions 43.8 43.8 At 1 March 2008 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Impairment At 4 March 2007 and 1 March 2008 Net book value at 1 March 2008 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The recoverable amount of each of the business segments is determined as being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on financial plans approved by management looking forward five years.
Cash ows are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate beyond the five-year plan period.
There are a signi cant number of inter-connected assumptions that underpin the value-in-use calculations, however the key assumptions, which management believes are appropriate for both retail businesses, are: a long-term growth rate of 2.5% 2008: 2.25%, which has been used to extrapolate cash ows beyond the five-year plan period: a post-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2008: 7.0%, which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 11.8% 2008: 10.0%, has been estimated taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses and has been applied to the cash ow projections: and operating pro ts for the current year, of 303.6m for Argos 2008: 376.2m and 14.9m for Homebase 2008: 45.1m, have been adjusted into the plan period, incorporating assumptions in respect of sales growth, gross margin and cost savings following the Groups cost reduction programme.
In establishing the value of operating pro ts during the plan period, the Board has approved a set of projections which it considers to be prudent and which provides a sensible basis upon which to make business planning decisions.
These projections re ect managements continued expectation of a dif cult trading environment for the product markets in which each business segment operates.
For the Homebase business in particular, these forecasts assume a continued deterioration in the trading environment in the early years of the plan period, followed by a gradual improvement in the latter years of the plan period.
Management will continue to pursue a range of options designed to achieve pro ts in excess of these prudent forecasts.
As a result of the value-in-use calculations an impairment charge of 381.7m was booked at the half year against the carrying value of the Homebase goodwill.
As at 28 February 2009 the value-in-use calculations were updated.
No additional impairment was required.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would cause the carrying value of the Argos business segment to exceed its recoverable amount.
With regards to the Homebase business segment however, the value-in-use calculation remains sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions used and the table below sets out the sensitivities for changes to these key assumptions: Impact on value-in-use Key assumption Sensitivity m Value-in-use headroom as at 28 February 2009 46 Post-tax discount rate - 1% 49 69 Long-term growth rate - 1% 56 40 Operating pro t change in each and every year - 1m 11 11 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 2 March 2008 186.7 186.7 Additions 24.1 20.6 44.7 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 28 February 2009 210.5 20.6 231.1 Amortisation At 2 March 2008 103.0 103.0 Charge for the year 24.5 0.2 24.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 28 February 2009 127.3 0.2 127.5 Net book value at 28 February 2009 83.2 20.4 103.6 Assets in the course of construction included above at 28 February 2009 27.8 27.8 Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 4 March 2007 152.0 152.0 Additions 35.0 35.0 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 1 March 2008 186.7 186.7 Amortisation At 4 March 2007 78.6 78.6 Charge for the year 24.7 24.7 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 1 March 2008 103.0 103.0 Net book value at 1 March 2008 83.7 83.7 Assets in the course of construction included above at 1 March 2008 19.4 19.4 94 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 2 March 2008 102.3 1.7 382.4 1,158.0 1,644.4 Exchange differences 3.0 7.4 10.4 Additions 7.0 22.0 81.9 110.9 Disposals 1.1 70.7 188.9 260.7 Transfers between categories 0.1 0.1 At 28 February 2009 108.2 1.6 336.8 1,058.4 1,505.0 Depreciation and impairment losses At 2 March 2008 10.4 0.4 200.7 701.1 912.6 Exchange differences 0.6 4.0 4.6 Charge for the year 1.3 18.1 115.3 134.7 Impairment losses 7.6 81.0 63.6 152.2 Disposals 1.1 70.3 187.0 258.4 Transfers between categories 0.1 0.1 At 28 February 2009 18.2 0.3 230.2 697.0 945.7 Net book value at 28 February 2009 90.0 1.3 106.6 361.4 559.3 Assets in the course of construction included above at 28 February 2009 4.8 44.1 48.9 Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 4 March 2007 91.6 5.1 335.7 1,055.0 1,487.4 Exchange differences 0.2 1.4 4.4 6.0 Additions 10.7 42.4 123.2 176.3 Acquired through business combination 1.0 0.5 1.5 Disposals 1.7 25.1 26.8 Transfers between categories 3.6 3.6 At 1 March 2008 102.3 1.7 382.4 1,158.0 1,644.4 Depreciation and impairment losses At 4 March 2007 9.1 0.7 180.8 605.2 795.8 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 2.2 2.6 Charge for the year 1.3 18.2 107.4 126.9 Impairment losses 2.5 7.8 10.3 Disposals 1.5 21.5 23.0 Transfers between categories 0.4 0.4 At 1 March 2008 10.4 0.4 200.7 701.1 912.6 Net book value at 1 March 2008 91.9 1.3 181.7 456.9 731.8 Assets in the course of construction included above at 1 March 2008 4.0 7.0 71.0 82.0 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Store assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Store assets are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the same as those detailed for the goodwill impairment model in note 14.
As a consequence of this review, an exceptional impairment charge of 152.2m has been recognised in respect of the Homebase store portfolio.
Management does not believe that the sensitivities as set out in note 14 would result in a signi cant further impairment.
INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2009 2008 m m Opening 7.7 9.2 Reclassi cation to financial assets 8.1 Exchange differences 1.1 0.9 Share of loss pro t after tax 0.4 2.8 Additions 6.8 Disposals 3.9 Closing 8.4 7.7 The Groups interest in joint ventures consists of a 50% holding in Home Retail Group Personal Finance Limited, a company incorporated in England, and its interest in associates consists of a 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited which trades as home store more, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, which was acquired during the prior year for 6.8m.
In addition, on 14 November 2007 the Group disposed of its 33% holding of AAGUS Financial Services Group NV, a company incorporated in The Netherlands, which was previously reported as an associate.
The Groups share of the revenue of its joint venture for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 is 2.9m 2008: 0.8m and its share of the loss after tax is 2.0m 2008: 1.2m.
At 28 February 2009, the Groups share of the net liabilities of its joint venture amounted to 9.3m 2008: 4.4m, consisting of assets of 25.7m 2008: 16.3m and liabilities of 35.0m 2008: 20.7m.
No liability has been recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of the joint venture, but the Groups share of the accumulated losses has been taken against the carrying value of a loan made by the Group to the joint venture, which is reported within other financial assets in note 25.
The Groups share of the revenue of its associates for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 is 5.9m 2008: 4.4m and its share of loss after tax is 0.4m 2008: 2.8m pro t. At 28 February 2009, the Groups share of the net assets of its associates amounted to 8.4m 2008: 7.7m, consisting of assets of 9.5m 2008: 8.2m, which includes goodwill of 4.9m 2008: 4.2m, and liabilities of 1.1m 2008: 0.5m.
INVENTORIES 2009 2008 m m Goods for resale 930.3 1,004.8 96 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Trade receivables: Instalment receivables 491.1 0.2 488.9 1.7 Other trade receivables 59.3 51.6 550.4 0.2 540.5 1.7 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 70.1 0.2 60.8 0.6 480.3 479.7 1.1 Other receivables 56.4 3.4 59.7 3.7 Prepayments and accrued income 57.0 58.4 593.7 3.4 597.8 4.8 The carrying values of current trade and other receivables are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
Long-term receivables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
All receivables due after more than one year are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a broad customer base.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 28 February 2009, trade receivables of 86.0m 2008: 76.4m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 70.3m as at 28 February 2009 2008: 61.4m.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to store card holder balances on customer accounts on which indications of possible default have been identi ed.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: m At 3 March 2007 58.8 Charge for the year 36.6 Utilised 34.0 At 1 March 2008 61.4 Charge for the year 42.1 Utilised 33.2 At 28 February 2009 70.3 As at 28 February 2009, trade receivables of 28.7m 2008: 24.2m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to store card holders and corporate customer receivable balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Less than 3 months 26.5 22.2 3 to 6 months 1.7 1.5 6 to 9 months 0.2 0.3 9 to 12 months 0.3 0.2 28.7 24.2 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 20.
CURRENT ASSET INVESTMENTS 2009 2008 m m Term cash deposit 75.0 The current asset investment comprises a term cash deposit invested for a period of nine months which matured after the balance sheet date on 15 April 2009.
The interest rate on this deposit was 6.1%.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 209.4 174.0 The effective interest rate during the year ended 28 February 2009 for cash and cash equivalents was 4.8% 2008: 5.5%.
Under the terms of a re-insurance agreement, bank balances totalling 2.9m 2008: 3.4m are the subject of custodial agreements and may not be withdrawn without the consent of the re-insured.
The Group has provided letters of credit totalling 12.5m 2008: 12.5m to AIG Europe UK Limited as part of their re-insurance agreement.
These letters are secured by cash deposits.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Trade payables 486.0 501.3 Social security costs and other taxes 45.0 48.1 Accruals and deferred income 380.1 64.0 444.8 41.3 Other payables 88.1 95.3 999.2 64.0 1,089.5 41.3 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and the fair values are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
Long-term payables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
98 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 23.
PROVISIONS Onerous Insurance Restructuring leases provisions provisions Other Total m m m m m At 1 March 2008 51.4 31.4 5.1 10.8 98.7 Charged to the income statement 122.2 8.0 35.2 6.2 171.6 Utilised during the year 4.7 6.3 6.7 7.0 24.7 Discount unwind 4.5 0.1 4.6 At 28 February 2009 173.4 33.1 33.6 10.1 250.2 Analysed as: 2009 2008 m m Current 51.6 26.1 Non-current 198.6 72.6 250.2 98.7 The onerous lease provision covers potential liabilities for onerous lease contracts for stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading revenue is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash ows relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected sublet income.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2016.
Provision is made at the year-end for the estimated costs of claims incurred by the Groups captive insurance company but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the costs of claims that have arisen but have not yet been reported to the Group.
The estimated cost of claims includes expenses to be incurred in settling claims.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2013.
A number of organisational changes are being undertaken to improve the operational ef ciency of the Group and drive further cost productivity.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include legal claims and other sundry provisions.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates both fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution plans.
A fide ned bene t plan is a pension plan that fide fines an amount of pension bene t that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A fide ned contribution plan is a pension plan under which both the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these bene ts, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
Pension arrangements for UK employees are operated principally through a fide ned bene t scheme the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and a fide ned contribution scheme the Home Retail Group Stakeholder Pension Scheme.
In other countries, bene ts are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
fide ned bene t schemes The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme The scheme has rules which specify the bene ts to be paid and are nanced accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2006 by independent, quali ed actuaries, Watson Wyatt LLP, using the projected unit method.
The next full actuarial valuation of the scheme will be carried out as at 31 March 2009.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 24.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The movements during the year in the net liability asset recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Opening 83.7 9.3 Total charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 8.6 13.8 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 135.4 73.9 Contributions paid 13.9 14.3 Closing 46.4 83.7 The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid into the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme by the Group during the next financial year is 13m.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2009 2008 m m Fair value of scheme assets 504.4 646.5 Present value of funded scheme liabilities 539.8 552.1 fide cit surplus in the funded scheme 35.4 94.4 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 11.0 10.7 Retirement bene t liability asset recognised in the balance sheet 46.4 83.7 The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 20.4 26.8 Curtailment 0.6 Discount unwind on scheme liabilities 33.9 30.5 Expected return on scheme assets 45.1 43.5 Total charge to consolidated income statement 8.6 13.8 The current service cost includes 1.8m 2008: 2.2m in respect of unfunded pension arrangements.
The charge is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement: 2009 2008 m m Administrative costs 19.8 26.8 Finance expense note 10 33.9 30.5 Finance income note 10 45.1 43.5 Total charge to consolidated income statement 8.6 13.8 100 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 IAS 19 valuations The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Watson Wyatt LLP to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at 28 February 2009 and 1 March 2008.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations were as follows: 2009 2008 % % Rate of in ation 3.4 3.5 Rate of increases for salaries 4.7 4.8 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.3 3.4 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.4 3.5 Discount rate 6.5 6.1 The impact of changing material assumptions is as follows: 2009 2008 Indicative Indicative Indicative Indicative effect effect effect effect Increase on scheme on annual on scheme on annual decrease in liabilities service cost liabilities service cost assumptions m m m m Rate of in ation 0.1% - 9.4 - 0.6 - 12.4 - 0.8 Rate of increase for salaries 0.1% - 2.2 - 0.2 - 3.4 - 0.3 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.1% - 5.0 - 0.2 - 7.3 - 0.4 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 0.1% - 2.8 - 0.1 - 3.4 - 0.2 Discount rate 0.1% - 11.0 - 0.5 - 14.6 - 0.8 Life expectancy 1 year - 14.9 - 0.7 - 14.6 - 0.7 The discount rate is based on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the fide ned bene t obligation.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with PA92 Series tables with medium cohort projections for mortality improvements up to the current year.
The allowance for mortality improvements beyond the current year is based on medium cohort improvements with a 1% oor.
Previously it had been assumed that the probability of death occurring at each age would decrease by approximately 0.25% each year.
The effect of this change to the mortality assumption has been to add between 1 to 1.5 years to the average expectation of life on retirement.
Based on these assumptions the average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be: 22.5 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 2008: 21.4 25.6 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 2008: 24.3 23.9 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 2008: 22.3 27.0 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 2008: 25.1 The assets of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows: 2009 2008 Expected Expected Percentage long-term Percentage long-term Fair of scheme rate of Fair of scheme rate of value assets return value assets return m % % pa m % % pa Market value of scheme assets: Equities 302.3 60 8.4 438.0 68 8.1 Fixed interest securities 190.4 38 5.4 202.7 31 5.0 Other 11.7 2 4.5 5.8 1 5.3 504.4 100 7.2 646.5 100 7.1 The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets is the weighted average of the best estimate of the individual asset categories and their inherent expected rates of return.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 24.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Changes in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Opening fide ned bene t obligation 562.8 628.0 Current service cost 20.4 26.8 Curtailment 0.6 Interest cost 33.9 30.5 Contributions paid by employees 6.8 6.9 Actuarial gain on liabilities recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 58.9 118.7 Bene ts paid 13.6 10.7 Closing fide ned bene t obligation 550.8 562.8 Changes in the market value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Opening market value of scheme assets 646.5 637.3 Expected return 45.1 43.5 Actuarial loss on assets recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 194.3 44.8 Contributions paid by the Group 13.9 14.3 Contributions paid by employees 6.8 6.9 Bene ts paid 13.6 10.7 Closing market value of scheme assets 504.4 646.5 Cumulative actuarial loss gain included in the statement of recognised income and expense 101.4 34.0 The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of 149.2m 2008: 1.3m loss.
History of experience gains and losses: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 550.8 562.8 628.0 579.1 465.5 Fair value of scheme assets 504.4 646.5 637.3 604.6 392.5 Net fide cit surplus on the scheme 46.4 83.7 9.3 25.5 73.0 Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 1.5 4.3 20.8 0.2 3.6 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.3% 0.8% 3.3% 0.0% 0.8% Experience loss gain on scheme assets 194.3 44.8 18.0 70.9 8.1 Percentage of scheme assets 38.5% 6.9% 2.8% 11.7% 2.1% fide ned contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to the fide ned contribution schemes and amounted to 6.8m 2008: 6.2m.
Contributions totalling 0.3m 2008: 0.3m were payable to the schemes at 28 February 2009 and are included within trade and other payables.
102 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 25.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Other financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 25.5 3.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 28.2 0.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 9.2 14.2 Total other financial assets 53.7 9.2 4.3 14.2 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 1.5 2.8 Total other financial liabilities 1.5 2.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts The forward foreign exchange contracts are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to one year into the future and will be transferred to inventory.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 28 February 2009 and 1 March 2008 will be released to inventory within one year from the balance sheet date.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 28 February 2009 were 671.9m 2008: 543.6m.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
DEFERRED TAX 2009 2008 m m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: Opening 20.8 29.6 Income statement credit charge note 11 49.4 28.6 Rate change impact 1.0 Tax on pensions and share schemes credited charged to shareholders equity 32.5 22.8 Closing 61.1 20.8 The deferred tax amounts recognised are as follows: Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year 87.4 46.6 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be settled after more than one year 26.3 67.4 Net deferred tax asset liability 61.1 20.8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated Other Asset tax temporary provisions depreciation differences Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 4 March 2007 43.2 31.2 74.4 Income statement charge 5.6 1.1 6.7 Rate change impact 2.4 0.9 3.3 Tax charged to equity 1.1 16.7 17.8 At 1 March 2008 34.1 12.5 46.6 At 2 March 2008 34.1 12.5 46.6 Income statement credit charge 28.5 12.0 16.5 Tax charged to equity 1.1 37.9 39.0 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 0.1 0.7 15.5 14.7 At 28 February 2009 63.8 0.7 22.9 87.4 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 4 March 2007 25.0 20.5 0.7 44.8 Income statement credit charge 1.7 11.8 11.8 21.9 Rate change impact 1.5 2.2 0.6 4.3 Tax charged to equity 5.0 5.0 At 1 March 2008 21.8 30.1 15.5 67.4 At 2 March 2008 21.8 30.1 15.5 67.4 Income statement credit 2.1 30.8 32.9 Tax charged to equity 6.5 6.5 Transfer to deferred tax assets 0.7 15.4 14.7 At 28 February 2009 19.7 6.6 26.3 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax bene t through the future taxable pro ts is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 1.1m 2008: 1.4m in respect of all non-trading losses, which total 3.9m 2008: 5.0m, that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition, the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 32.2m 2008: 32.2m in respect of capital losses, which total 114.9m 2008: 114.9m, that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available inde nitely.
104 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 27.
SHARE CAPITAL 2009 2008 Number 2009 Number 2008 of shares m of shares m Authorised: Ordinary share capital of 10p each 2,000,500,000 200.1 2,000,500,000 200.1 2009 2008 Number Number of shares 2009 of shares 2008 m m m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid: Ordinary share capital of 10p each 877.4 87.7 877.4 87.7 28.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY Share Merger Other Retained capital reserve reserves earnings Total m m m m m At 2 March 2008 87.7 348.4 3.9 3,602.0 3,345.2 Loss for the financial year 413.1 413.1 Net income expense recognised in equity for the financial year 52.6 98.7 46.1 Movement in share-based compensation reserve note 29 21.3 21.3 Net movement in own shares 21.1 0.4 21.5 Equity dividends paid during the year note 12 127.2 127.2 Other distributions 0.2 0.2 Total equity at 28 February 2009 87.7 348.4 35.4 2,983.7 2,758.4 Share Merger Other Retained capital reserve reserves earnings Total m m m m m At 4 March 2007 87.7 348.4 11.4 3,350.8 3,078.7 Pro t for the financial year 294.6 294.6 Net income recognised in equity for the financial year 15.2 51.6 66.8 Movement in share-based compensation reserve note 29 21.6 21.6 Net movement in own shares 0.1 2.3 2.4 Equity dividends paid during the year note 12 118.9 118.9 Total equity at 1 March 2008 87.7 348.4 3.9 3,602.0 3,345.2 Other distributions represents dividend equivalent amounts paid to participants in the Groups share award schemes on exercise of awards under these schemes.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the demerger of the Group from GUS plc during 2006.
Other reserves Other reserves principally consist of shares held in trust, the hedging reserve and the translation reserve.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 28.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY CONTINUED Net movement in own shares represents the purchase, and subsequent utilisation or sale, of shares for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes.
Shares in Home Retail Group plc are held in the following trusts which have been established since demerger: Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST The EST provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under share option and share grant schemes with the exception of the Share Incentive Plan.
At 28 February 2009, the EST held 20,082,708 shares with a market value of 42.7m.
The shares in the EST are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 21.5m.
During the year 11,398,812 shares were acquired for a cost of 21.6m, with the remaining shares in the EST having been acquired as part of the demerger from GUS plc in 2006 at no cost.
Dividends on these shares are waived.
Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust The Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
At 28 February 2009, the Trust held 1,345,240 shares with a market value of 2.9m.
These shares are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 5.6m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
These can be analysed into three categories, being those rolled over from old GUS plc schemes as a result of the demerger from GUS on 11 October 2006, incentive schemes speci cally related to the demerger Demerger incentive schemes and new Home Retail Group plc schemes subsequent to the demerger.
Prior to the demerger, a number of Home Retail Group plc employees participated in old GUS plc share-based payment schemes.
As part of the demerger, some of these schemes had early vesting with vesting occurring prior to completion of the demerger, while others were modi ed by rolling them over to become Home Retail Group plc share-based payment schemes.
Speci cally, all executive share option schemes in operation following the demerger from GUS plc were rolled over from a GUS plc share option arrangement to a Home Retail Group plc arrangement.
Furthermore, certain share grant schemes namely the co-investment plan and the performance share plan which originally operated as GUS plc share grant schemes, were rolled over as Home Retail Group plc share grant schemes.
Under IFRS 2, these changes were treated as modi cations to the schemes and hence revalued as at the demerger date.
Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of ordinary shares in the Company 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 m m Share option awards 7.4 5.3 Share grant awards 13.9 16.3 Total expense recognised all equity-settled 21.3 21.6 The total share-based payments charge of 21.3m 2008: 21.6m includes 8.6m 2008: 10.4m relating to demerger incentive schemes which, net of a credit relating to national insurance of 0.2m 2008: 1.3m charge, total 8.4m 2008: 11.7m, and are excluded from benchmark pro t before tax.
Summary of share option and share award arrangements During the year ended 28 February 2009, Home Retail Group plc had a number of share option and share award arrangements for its employees, all of which are equity-settled.
Details of these arrangements are as follows: Rolled over from old GUS plc schemes Share options The 1998 approved and non-approved executive share option schemes.
Under these schemes, the exercise price of granted options is equal to the market price of the shares over the three dealing days preceding grant.
Options are conditional on the employee completing three years service.
The options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date, subject to the Groups EPS compound annual growth exceeding compound annual retail price in ation by 4% per annum over a continuous three-year period.
This is not a market-based performance condition as fide ned by IFRS 2.
The options have a maximum term of 10 years.
No new options have been granted under these schemes since demerger.
106 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Share awards The ex-GUS plc performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant for nil consideration, with the percentage of the award distributed to participants determined by ranking total shareholder return relative to a comparator group, which is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
Awards under this plan have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The ex-GUS plc co-investment plan permitted the awards of matching shares to participants, conditional on the achievement of speci ed performance targets related to the benchmark operating pro t of the Group.
The matching shares are a nil consideration option and have been classi ed as an award of shares because the nature of the award is the same.
The grant date is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed, which is one year before the quantity of shares awarded is determined.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest after a four-year period for nil consideration, and participants have a further two years to exercise their awards.
The underlying value of the award is known at grant date, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
Demerger incentive schemes Share awards The performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant, at which time shares will be distributed to participants for nil consideration.
The re-investment plan is a three-part scheme running over three, four and five years, under which participants were awarded matching shares.
The percentage of the award distributed to participants is conditional upon continued service, ranking of total shareholder return relative to a comparator group and the achievement of speci ed performance targets related to the return on invested capital of the Group.
The total shareholder return performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
Under the long-term incentive plan a one-off grant of matching shares was made to participants at demerger, based upon the operating pro t performance of the Group over the three years prior to demerger.
The quantity of shares was determined at demerger, following assessment of performance, and awarded in June 2007.
The awards made under this plan will normally vest two years later, and participants have a further two years to exercise their awards.
The share incentive plan was a one-off free share grant to all employees at the time of the demerger.
The shares are being held in a trust on behalf of participants and will normally be forfeited if a participants employment with the Group ceases within three years of the grant date.
Participants can exercise their awards after the three-year period, however awards can be exercised free of tax after a further two years.
The shares continue to be held by the trust until the awards are either exercised by participants or lapse.
New Home Retail Group plc schemes Share options The Home Retail Group plc Sharesave Plan permits the grant to employees of options over the Companys shares linked to a building society save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of between 5 and 250 per month.
Options are normally capable of being exercised at the end of the threeor five-year period at an exercise price calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding invitation to participants.
Options must be exercised within six months of the end of the threeor five-year save-as-you-earn contract.
Share awards The performance share plan.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED The co-investment plan permits the awards of matching shares to participants.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of speci ed performance targets in two stages.
The grant date is the start of the financial year in which the first performance stage the achievement of speci ed performance targets related to the benchmark operating pro t of the Group is assessed, which is one year before the quantity of shares awarded is determined.
For awards granted during the year, the percentage of the award distributed to participants will be determined by the extent to which the targets for the second performance stage the achievement of speci ed performance targets related to the EPS growth and return on invested capital of the Group from the second to fourth years following grant are met.
Information relating to share option valuation techniques The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine an appropriate value of the option grants.
The estimated fair values and inputs into the option pricing model are as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 February 1 March Options granted over Home Retail Group plc shares under the Home Retail Group plc Sharesave Plan 2009 2008 Weighted average: Fair value 0.55 1.08 Share price on grant date 2.38 4.70 Exercise price 1.90 3.79 Expected volatility 42.4% 24.3% Expected dividend yield 6.2% 3.1% Risk free interest rate 4.4% 5.4% Expected option life to exercise 3.7 years 3.8 years Expected volatility is a measure of expected uctuations in the share price over the expected life of an option.
The measure of volatility used by the Company in its pricing model during the year ended 28 February 2009 has been calculated by using implied volatility from market quoted prices of traded options over the Companys shares.
For the year ended 1 March 2008, as limited historical volatility existed for the Companys share price, an average of volatilities was calculated from comparator companies.
Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 1 March 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options options Outstanding at beginning of year 17,160,056 3.76 9,958,258 3.70 Granted 14,266,007 1.90 9,777,675 3.79 Forfeited 7,828,759 3.48 1,801,009 3.77 Exercised 758 1.90 679,050 3.45 Expired 349,307 3.73 95,818 3.36 Outstanding at year-end 23,247,239 2.71 17,160,056 3.76 Exercisable at year-end 4,733,476 3.57 462,044 3.39 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the year was 2.14 2008: 4.44.
108 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 Share options outstanding at the end of the year Share options at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: As at 28 February 2009 Weighted Weighted average remaining lives average Range of exercise prices Number of exercise price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 12,984,269 1.90 3.3 3.8 2.00 2.99 34,097 2.79 3.9 3.00 3.99 10,228,873 3.74 1.1 5.8 As at 1 March 2008 Weighted Weighted average remaining lives average Range of exercise prices Number of exercise price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 2.00 2.99 38,350 2.80 4.9 3.00 3.99 17,121,706 3.76 2.5 5.8 Information relating to share award valuation techniques The value of the awards is determined as the observed market closing share price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the co-investment plan, this occurs after the first year of performance is assessed.
The performance share plans and the re-investment plans marketbased performance condition is included in the fair value measurement on grant date and is not revised for actual performance.
All of the share awards are equity-settled.
Under the share awards, the participants have an entitlement to either dividend equivalents or dividend distributions from issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market share price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
There were 7,609,354 ordinary share awards 2008: 3,962,197 granted during the year with a weighted average fair value of 1.84 2008: 3.14.
OPERATING LEASES 2009 2008 m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than one year 393.0 358.9 Between one and five years 1,394.3 1,359.7 More than five years 2,537.0 2,611.5 Total operating leases 4,324.3 4,330.1 The Group leases various retail stores, of ces and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses, contingent rentals and renewal rights.
COMMITMENTS 2009 2008 m m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 17.6 25.8 Intangible assets 4.0 Total commitments 21.6 25.8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 32.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Cash generated from operations m m Loss pro t before tax 394.2 426.0 Adjustments for: Share of post-tax losses pro ts of joint ventures and associates 2.4 1.6 Net nancing income 10.2 37.3 Operating loss pro t 402.0 387.1 Pro t loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.4 Depreciation and amortisation 159.4 151.6 Impairment losses 533.9 10.3 Finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 13.6 19.6 Decrease increase in inventories 74.5 98.4 Decrease increase in receivables 12.6 21.2 Decrease increase in payables 97.3 71.5 Movement in working capital 10.2 48.1 Increase in provisions 146.9 9.2 Movement in retirement bene ts 5.9 12.5 Share-based payment expense net of dividend equivalent payments 21.1 21.6 Cash generated from operations 468.4 564.2 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 February 1 March 2009 2008 Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt m m Net cash at beginning of the year 174.0 60.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.0 1.8 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 31.4 111.6 Decrease in debt 223.6 Net cash at the end of the year 209.4 174.0 2009 2008 Non-GAAP measures Notes m m Financing net cash: Cash at bank and in hand 21 209.4 174.0 Current asset investments 20 75.0 Total nancing net cash 284.4 174.0 Major non-cash transactions The Group did not enter into any new finance lease arrangements during the year 2008: nil.
110 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 34.
RELATED PARTIES The ultimate parent company of the Group is Home Retail Group plc.
The principal subsidiary and associate undertakings at 28 February 2009 are shown in note 36.
Transactions between Home Retail Group plc and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below: Joint Venture The Group lent 2.0m 2008: nil to a joint venture, Home Retail Group Personal Finance Limited.
The total loan of 10.1m 2008: 8.1m was outstanding as at 28 February 2009.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
During the year, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
Home Retail Group pension plans Transactions between the Group and the Home Retail Group pension plans are disclosed in note 24.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS There are no material post balance sheet events.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS Country of Percentage of Description incorporation ordinary shares held Home Retail Group UK Limited Group holding company England 100 Argos Limited General merchandise retailing England 100 Argos Distributors Ireland Limited General merchandise retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Homebase Limited Home enhancement retailing England 100 Homebase House and Garden Centre Limited Home enhancement retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Hampden Group Limited Home enhancement retailing Northern Ireland 100 Home Retail Group Card Services Limited Financial services England 100 ARG Personal Loans Limited Financial services England 100 Argos Business Solutions Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Product sourcing for the Hong Kong 100 Home Retail Group companies Held directly by the Parent Company Details of interests in joint ventures and associated undertakings are given within note 17.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 111
