Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 Independent auditors report on the Company We have audited the parent company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies of Galiform Plc for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2009 Act 2006 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting framework that has U the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
U the information given in the Directors Report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, year for which the financial statements are prepared is as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Matters on which we are required to report by exception we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in our opinion: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
U adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of U the parent company financial statements and the part of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and U certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing are not made: or Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
U we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matters and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the Group financial statements reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of Galiform Plc for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2009. from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the John Adam Senior Statutory Auditor accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP circumstances and have been consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall London, United Kingdom presentation of the financial statements.
3 March 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: U give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 26 December 2009: U have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and U have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
