annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC Interpretations.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and those financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading.
Adoption of New Standards, Amendments and Interpretations The following new standards, amendments and interpretations became effective for and were adopted during the year ended 31 December 2009: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting conditions and cancellations Amendment to IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Reclassification of Financial Assets Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Relating to IAS 18 Revenue IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been adopted from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
Segment reporting under IFRS 8 requires a presentation of the segment results based on management reporting methods and a reconciliation between the results of the business segments and the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements requires a new performance statement, the statement of comprehensive income, to report all non-owner changes in equity.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The statement of changes in equity reports transactions with owners in their capacity as owners.
The financial statements have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
The adoption of the amendment to IAS 16, a part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2008, requires those entities, whose activities include renting assets, to recognise rental income as revenue and to transfer the carrying amount of the assets to inventories when the assets become held for sale, and to present the carrying amount in cost of sales and the proceeds as revenue on the sale of those assets.
A consequential amendment to IAS 7 states that the cash flows arising from the purchase, rental and sale of those assets are classified as cash flows from operating activities.
The impact of this on the Groups accounts has been to reclassify net cash outflows of 11.0m for the year ended 2008 from investing activities to operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Although the adoption of the other standards, amendments and interpretations represents a change in accounting policy, comparative figures for 2008 have not been restated, as these changes do not impact the financial performance or position of the Group.
uk 44 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Standards, Amendments and Interpretations Effective Subsequent to the Year End IFRS 1 revised First-time Adoption IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment to IFRS I Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Not yet endorsed by the European Union It is anticipated that all new requirements will not significantly impact the Groups results or financial position except for IFRS 3 revised.
IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for the Group for all business combinations which complete after 31 December 2009.
The revised standard introduces significant changes to the accounting for business acquisitions.
All payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as liabilities subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
All costs directly attributable to the acquisition must be expensed to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The Group has chosen to expense in 2009 costs of 0.2m directly attributable to acquisitions that may complete after 31 December 2009.
IFRS 3 revised also offers a choice, on an  basis, to measure any non-controlling interest currently the minority interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The Group will continue to measure any non-controlling interest at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Change in Accounting Policy from Carrying Property at Valuation to Historic Cost The Group has elected to change its accounting policy from carrying property at valuation to carrying it at historical cost under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
The accounting policy for depreciation remains unchanged.
The property portfolio of the Group has reduced significantly following the disposal of Gibson Energy on 12 December 2008 and the significance of property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet has declined.
In addition, the majority of the Groups peers use historical cost and so the use of historical cost will improve comparability.
uk 45 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this change in policy, as required by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
The impact of this change in accounting policy is set out below: Year ended Hunting 31 December Restated Energy Year ended 2008 Change in Year ended France 31 December as previously accounting 31 December Discontinued 2008 reported policy 2008 Operation as presented m m m m m Consolidated Income Statement: Gross Profit 120.1 120.1 10.3 109.8 Other operating income 4.7 4.7 0.3 4.4 Operating expenses 114.8 0.2 114.6 8.3 106.3 Net finance costs 3.2 3.2 0.2 3.4 Share of post-tax profits in associates 1.2 1.2 1.2 Taxation 7.7 0.1 7.8 0.8 7.0 Profit for the year: From continuing operations 0.3 0.1 0.4 1.7 1.3 From discontinued operations 256.3 51.0 307.3 1.7 309.0 Profit for the year 256.6 51.1 307.7 307.7 Earnings per share: Basic EPS 193.4p 39.0p 232.4p 232.4p Diluted EPS 187.4p 45.0p 232.4p 232.4p Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: Profit for the year 256.6 51.1 307.7 307.7 Other comprehensive income after tax: Exchange adjustments 44.2 3.8 40.4 40.4 Release of foreign exchange adjustments on disposal of subsidiary 18.0 4.2 13.8 13.8 Impairment of revalued assets 0.4 0.4 Other components of comprehensive income 15.9 15.9 15.9 Other comprehensive income after tax 9.9 0.8 10.7 10.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 266.5 51.9 318.4 318.4 Year ended 31 December Restated 2008 Change in Year ended as previously accounting 31 December reported policy 2008 m m m Consolidated Balance Sheet: Property, plant and equipment 130.6 11.0 119.6 Deferred tax liabilities 18.6 2.1 16.5 Other assets and liabilities 454.2 454.2 Net assets 566.2 8.9 557.3 Share capital 33.0 33.0 Share premium 90.0 90.0 Revaluation reserve 9.6 9.6 Foreign currency translation reserve 33.1 0.8 33.9 Retained earnings 383.5 0.1 383.4 Other components of equity 4.8 4.8 Minority interests 12.2 12.2 Total equity 566.2 8.9 557.3 The impact of the change in accounting policy on the 2007 results was to reduce profit for the year from discontinued operations by 0.2m.
uk 46 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Consolidation On adoption of IFRS, the Company elected not to restate business combinations prior to 1 January 2004.
The Group accounts include the results of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with its share of associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Uniform accounting policies have been adopted across the Group.
Minority interests Minority interests are those interests in the net assets and results of consolidated subsidiaries, which are not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Group, and are identified separately in shareholders equity.
Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Generally, the Group regards an investment in the voting rights of between 20% and 50% as an associate.
The Groups share of after tax results of associates is included separately in the income statement and the Groups share of the net assets is included separately in the balance sheet.
Discontinued Operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has either been disposed of during the year or that is classified as held-for-sale, which represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Revenue Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of goods or services in the ordinary course of business, taking into account trade discounts and volume rebates, and is stated net of sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, which is normally on delivery of the products.
Long term contracts are contracts which cover more than one accounting period and which do not fall within the definition of construction contracts.
Revenue on long term contracts for the supply of services is recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by reference to the work done during the period.
An estimate of the profit attributable to work completed is only recognised once the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured.
Expected losses are recognised in full as soon as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less the sum of recognised losses and progress billings is disclosed as trade receivables payables.
uk 47 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Revenue on long term contracts for the supply of goods is recognised on completion of the contract when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
However, if control and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its current state are transferred to the customer as construction progresses, then revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are regarded as significant items of income and expense, which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size, incidence or nature to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Exceptional items are principally profits or losses on the closure or disposal of subsidiaries, provision for warranties on disposal of subsidiaries, the impairment of assets and provisions for onerous leases.
Interest Interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method, except for finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets until such time as they are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Foreign Currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and associates are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of Hunting PLC is sterling.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
For consolidation purposes, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve, together with exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas net equity investments.
The foreign currency translation reserve commenced on 1 January 2004 and all cumulative translation differences for foreign operations that existed on 1 January 2004 were deemed to be zero.
On the disposal of a business, the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve relating to that business are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Segmental Reporting Financial information on operating segments that corresponds with information regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM is disclosed in the accounts.
Information on operating segments, which are components of the Group that are engaged in providing related products, is presented.
Geographical information presented is based on the location of where the sale originated and where the non-current assets are located.
Research and Development Research costs and development costs ineligible for capitalisation are written off to the income statement as incurred.
uk 48 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Taxation The taxation charge in the income statement comprises current tax and deferred tax arising on the current years net profits and adjustments to tax arising on prior years profits.
Current tax is the expected net tax payable arising in the current year on the current years net profits, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, plus adjustments to net tax payable in respect of prior years net profits.
Deferred tax is the expected net tax payable on the current years net profits arising in a future year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised separately on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
If items of income and expense are recognised in other comprehensive income, then the current and deferred tax relating to those items is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred taxation on unremitted overseas earnings is provided for to the extent a tax charge is foreseeable.
Exploration Expenditure Oil and gas exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised to wells or fields as appropriate, pending determination of the existence of commercial reserves.
Expenditures incurred during the exploration and appraisal phases are written off unless probable commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Drilling expenditure and directly attributable operational overheads associated with an exploratory dry hole are expensed immediately upon final determination that commercially viable quantities of hydrocarbons are not found.
When an oil or gas field has been approved for development, the accumulated exploration and appraisal costs are transferred to oil and gas properties.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition and installation of the items and finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land or assets under construction, using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives, at the following rates: Freehold buildings 2%-10% Leasehold buildings life of lease Oil and gas exploration and development equipment unit of production 1 Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 6%-33 % 3 Pipelines, tanks and associated equipment 3%-20% The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Freehold land and expenditure on the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources are not depreciated.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any impairment in value.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
uk 49 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Computer software integral to an item of machinery is capitalised as part of the hardware.
Property, plant and equipment are impaired if their recoverable amount falls below their carrying value.
Impairment losses are charged to the income statement immediately.
Oil and gas development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Where commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, the capitalised costs are depreciated using the unit of production method over the total proved reserves of the field concerned.
Costs are depreciated only when commercial reserves associated with a development project can be determined with reasonable accuracy and commercial production has commenced.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Negative goodwill is immediately written off to the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashgenerating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that business remaining on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, where applicable.
Those assets that have a finite life are amortised in accordance with the pattern of expected future economic benefits, or when this cannot be reliably estimated, by using the straight-line method.
General computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over a period of between three and eight years, customer relationships are amortised over a period of between five and ten years and other intangibles over a period of between three and eight years.
Impairments The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of goodwill at least annually.
The Group also assesses at least annually whether there have been any events or changes in circumstances that indicate that property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets may be impaired and an impairment review is carried out whenever such an assessment indicates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For the purposes of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Where impairment exists, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Impairments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been previously recognised.
uk 50 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out method and net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs of disposal in the ordinary course of business.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of less than three months from the date of deposit that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash.
Accrued interest is disclosed as part of the year end balance.
For cash flow statement purposes, cash and cash equivalents include bank overdrafts and short-term deposits with a maturity of less than three months from the date of deposit.
Financial Assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale financial assets.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date, which is normally the consideration paid, plus, in the case of financial assets that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is impaired by comparing its carrying value with the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at a rate relevant to the nature of the financial asset.
If the carrying amount is higher, it is reduced to the appropriate value and the loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Financial assets cease to be recognised when the right to receive cash flows has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
A financial asset is included in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term and also includes derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest accrued on loans carried at amortised cost is regarded as an integral part of the loan balance and therefore included within the carrying amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest receivable within twelve months on loans due after more than one year is recognised within non-current assets.
c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement.
Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date which is normally the consideration received less, in the case of financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group subsequently re-measures all of its non-derivative financial liabilities, including trade payables, at amortised cost.
Interest accrued on loans that are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method is regarded as an integral part of the loan balance and therefore included within the carrying amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest payable within twelve months on loans due after more than one year is recognised in non-current borrowings.
uk 51 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Debt Issue Costs Costs arising on the issue of new loan facilities are capitalised and amortised through interest expense using the effective interest method.
Derivatives and Financial Instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value as net proceeds received or consideration paid at the trade date and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that have not been designated in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivative and primary financial instruments that are designated in a hedge relationship are accounted for under one of the following methods: a Fair value hedge Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are fair value hedges.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives designated in a fair value hedge are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair values of the hedged items that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items and interest arising on the hedging instruments and hedged items are disclosed separately within finance costs.
b Cash flow hedge Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions are cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated in a cash flow hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are taken to the income statement at the same time the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains and losses that were reported in equity are immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Net investment hedge in foreign operations Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity.
Gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are released to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
All of the Groups hedges to which hedge accounting is applied, are tested for effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and are fully documented as hedges at the point of inception of the hedge relationship.
Embedded derivatives An embedded derivative is a feature in a sales or purchase contract that causes the cash flows of the contract to change whenever there is a change in a specified variable.
The Group reviews its sales and purchase contracts when they first become a party to the contract in order to determine the existence of embedded derivatives within them.
Derivatives that are embedded within a host contract are separated from that contract and measured at fair value unless either 1 the host contract is measured at fair value, in which case the fair value of the derivative is subsumed within the fair value of the entire contract, or 2 the derivative is closely related to the host contract, in which case the derivative is measured at cost.
An embedded derivative is regarded as not closely related to its host contract when the cash flows it modifies are associated with risks that are not inherent in the contract itself.
Subsequent reassessment of whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host contract is prohibited unless there is a change in the contracts terms.
uk 52 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Leases A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and their lease terms.
The corresponding rental obligations are included in borrowings as finance lease liabilities, initially at a value equal to the fair value of the leased asset, of if lower, at a value equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Interest incurred on finance leases is charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental of these is charged to the income statement as incurred over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
Operating lease income is recognised in the income statement within other income as it is earned.
Provisions Provisions are liabilities where the amount or timing of future expenditure is uncertain.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
If the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted to their present value.
If an obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated it is classified as a contingent liability.
Employee Benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the expected cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Method, with valuations updated annually by qualified independent actuaries at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the statement of comprehensive income.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as offset by the fair value of plan assets.
Interest arising on the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on the plans assets is recognised, as a net figure, within interest in the income statement.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and is otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
All cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 have been recognised in reserves.
The expected cost of post-employment benefit obligations is spread evenly over the period of service of the employees.
Share-based Payments The Group issues equity-settled shared-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer, using the Monte Carlo valuation model, and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the current expectations.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments has been applied from 1 January 2004 to grants of equity instruments issued after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005. www.
uk 53 annual report & accounts 2009 Principal Accounting Policies continued Share Capital The Companys share capital comprises a single class of shares, Ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
Treasury Shares Treasury shares are stated at cost and presented as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Consideration received for the sale of these shares is also recognised directly in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken directly to retained earnings.
Dividend Distributions Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as liabilities in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the interim dividends are paid and the final dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders and are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements and assumptions about the future, resulting in the use of accounting estimates.
These will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results and adjustments will consequently be necessary.
Estimates are continually evaluated, based on experience, consultation with experts and reasonable expectations of future events.
Accounting estimates are applied in determining the carrying amounts of the following significant assets and liabilities: employee benefits as detailed in note 30, property, plant and equipment useful lives, goodwill note 15, deferred taxation timing of liabilities and timing and recoverability of assets, share based payments as detailed in note 37 available for sale financial assets fair value and provisions fair value of obligation and discount rate.
In respect of the sale of Gibson Energy, accounting estimates and judgements have been applied in determining the fair value of the outstanding equity warrant note 27, which is based on managements best estimate of the recoverable amount given the global market conditions, and provisions for tax indemnities, where the timing and amount of any provisions that may be payable remains uncertain.
