1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 83 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings and Disputes In accordance with IFRS, the Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer can be reliably estimated.
In such instances a provision is calculated and recorded in the financial statements.
In instances where these criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group: or a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognised in the financial statements because it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Realisation of any contingent liabilities not currently recognised or disclosed in the financial statements could have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
As required under purchase accounting, claims and contingencies are recorded initially at fair value.
Future changes to these estimates of fair value are required to be reflected in the income statement and could have a material effect on the Groups results and financial condition.
Application of these accounting principles to legal proceedings and disputes, including cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related effects, is inherently difficult, given the complex nature of the facts and law involved.
Deciding whether or not to provide for loss in connection with such claims requires the Groups management to make determinations about various factual and legal matters beyond its control.
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal proceedings at each balance sheet date, in order to assess the need for provisions in its financial statements.
Among the factors considered in making decisions on provisions are the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment, the legal processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought, the progress of the case including progress after the date of the financial statements but before those statements are issued, the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, experience of similar cases and any decision of the Groups management as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Groups determinations at any time do not reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, with an adverse impact upon the Groups profit from operations, financial position and liquidity.
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related effects.
In the opinion of the Groups lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously contested.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the revenue, profit or financial condition of the Group.
Consequently, in respect of any such cases, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
In October 2003 the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT commenced an investigation under the Competition Act 1998 into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain.
On 24 April 2008, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections SO which set out the OFTs allegations against the tobacco manufacturers Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher, and 11 retailers.
The OFT alleges that these tobacco manufacturers and retailers variously engaged in one or more unlawful practices in relation to retail prices for some or all of a number of tobacco products in breach of Chapter 1 of the Competition Act 1998.
Following the issue of the SO, the OFT invited recipients of the SO to enter into settlement discussions on a without prejudice basis to reach early resolution agreements with the OFT.
On 11 July 2008, the OFT announced that six of the parties subject to the SO had reached early resolution agreements with the OFT, agreeing to pay a combined figure of some 132.3 million if all leniency and early resolution discounts are taken into account.
Other than Imperial Tobacco Group, the parties which have also not settled with the OFT and are therefore contesting the OFTs allegations, are the Co-operative Group, Morrisons including Safeway, Shell and Tesco.
Imperial Tobacco Groups detailed written response to the SO was submitted to the OFT on 15 August 2008 and Imperial Tobaccos representatives made submissions to the OFT in defence of the allegations at an oral hearing on 3 December 2008.
The OFT indicated in a letter dated 12 October 2009, that it currently intends to notify the parties of its final decision in the investigation in the first quarter of 2010.
We have no indication of whether that will be an infringement decision, a file closure decision or some other form of decision.
If the OFT proceeds to an infringement decision, it may impose a fine.
The maximum amount of any fine, under the statutory regime we believe that the OFT may apply, is 10 per cent of a companys UK turnover for up to three years although the actual amount may be less.
By way of example, in the three years to 30 September 2003, Imperial Tobacco Groups aggregate net UK turnover was 2,215 million.
The applicable turnover on which the amount of a fine is based expressly excludes VAT and other taxes directly related to turnover, which Imperial Tobacco Group has been advised would also exclude duty.
In addition, if the OFT were to make an infringement finding, it could issue orders prohibiting that activity in the future, whilst the infringing company might face the prospect of damages actions from third parties.
If the OFT were to make an infringement decision, Imperial Tobacco Group would be able to appeal the OFTs decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal, and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
We take compliance with competition law very seriously and reject any suggestion that we have acted in any way contrary to the interests of consumers.
Consequently, the Group has not provided any amount in the consolidated financial statements.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 83 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Intangible assets other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on managements estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue, and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Due to the long lives of certain assets, changes to the estimates used can result in significant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative industry or economic trends.
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite lived assets are subject to impairment review.
The Groups management undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
When it is determined that there is an indicator that the carrying value may not be recoverable, impairment is measured based on estimates of the recoverable amount of the underlying assets of the cash-generating unit.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application of the Groups accounting estimates in relation to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect the amounts reported in the financial statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and the carrying values of those assets.
If business conditions were different, or if different assumptions were used in the application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely that materially different amounts could be reported in the Groups financial statements.
See notes 9 and 10 to these financial statements.
Retirement Benefits The costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit retirement schemes operating within the Group are determined using methods relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions.
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18.
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions.
It is important to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent increase decrease in the discount rate would increase decrease the IAS 19 pension expense by approximately 3 million.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent decrease increase in the expected return on plan assets would increase reduce the IAS 19 pension expense by approximately 14 million.
Income Taxes The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
