1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 77 Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union collectively IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policies on financial instruments, retirement benefit schemes and share schemes below.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements note on pages 83 to 84.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
This could affect future financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Consolidated Income Statement Presentation Since the Group adopted IFRS in 2005, the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group were consistently prepared on the basis that: a the foreign currency exchange element of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as net investment hedges under IAS 39 was reported as part of profit from operations: b foreign currency exchange differences on borrowings not designated as net investment hedges under IAS 39 were also taken to profit from operations, but were not separately disclosed: and c the interest element of changes in the fair value of derivatives was reported as part of net finance costs.
During the year, as part of our ongoing procedures to improve the quality of our financial reporting, we reviewed our Consolidated Income Statement presentation in the light of current best practice and against those members of our peer group reporting under IFRS.
On the basis of this review we concluded that it would be more helpful to users of our financial statements to present the foreign exchange element of changes in value of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency exchange differences on borrowings not designated as net investment hedges as part of net finance costs rather than profit from operations.
For the year ended 30 September 2008 an amount of 314 million has been reclassified from administrative and other expenses to net finance costs.
There was no effect on profit before taxation.
Consolidated Balance Sheet As detailed in note 24, the fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of Altadis were finalised in January 2009, with adjustments made to the previously published provisional fair values.
The consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2008 has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the fair value adjustments.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Transactions with minority interests are treated as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 131 to 132.
Joint Ventures Joint ventures are those businesses which management and third parties jointly control.
The financial statements of joint ventures are consolidated using the proportionate method, with the Groups share of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet classified according to their nature.
In the same way, the Groups share of income and expenses is presented in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function.
If necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of these companies to unify their accounting policies with those used by the Group.
Foreign Currency Items included in the financial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates the functional currency.
The income and cash flow statements of Group companies using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling the Groups presentational currency at average rates of exchange in each period.
Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The differences between retained profits and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 77 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted by IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when treated as qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies after deducting permanent intragroup loans.
Gains or losses on these hedges are transferred to equity and offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.
Revenue Recognition For the Tobacco segment, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing third party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Licence fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
For the Logistics segment, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
The Logistics business only recognises commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts as a commission agent.
Distribution and marketing commissions are included in revenue.
Revenue is recognised on products on consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
Duty and Similar Items Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the characteristics of duty.
In countries where duty is a production tax, duty is included in revenue and in the income statement as an expense.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from revenue.
Payments due in the United States under the Master Settlement Agreement and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act are considered to be levies having the characteristics of duty and are treated as a production tax.
Taxes Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
The Group establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities only where it is considered more likely than not that an amount will be paid or received.
The Group applies this test to each individual uncertain position.
The Group measures the uncertain positions based on the single most likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base.
However, the deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Dividends Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible Assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised.
Previously all goodwill was written off through equity in the period of acquisition.
As permitted under IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in accordance with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying value of the Group companys assets and liabilities including the carrying amount of related goodwill.
Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible Assets Other Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
78 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 79 These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and computer software.
The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established international brands with global potential.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Other trademarks, supply agreements including customer relationships and computer software are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Other trademarks up to 30 years straight line Supply agreements 3 15 years straight line Computer software up to 5 years straight line Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired, less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with them will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 14 years straight line The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are included within property, plant and equipment.
They are initially valued at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
The associated lease liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet, and the interest element of the leasing payments is charged to the income statement.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Impairment of Assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the income statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised transaction costs.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
However, as the Group has decided as permitted under IAS 39 not to cash flow or fair value hedge account for its derivative financial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise unless the derivative qualifies and has been designated as a net investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in equity.
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit support annex documents under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements in respect of certain derivatives with negative fair values are net settled and are therefore netted off the carrying value of those derivatives on the balance sheet.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 79 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity but excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds twelve months is classified as a current asset, consistent with recognised industry practice.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be implemented, and the amount required to settle any obligations arising can be reliably estimated.
Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Retirement Benefit Schemes The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Under a defined benefit scheme, the amount of retirement benefit that will be received by an employee is defined with respect to period of service and final salary.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet is the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date and the fair value of the scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to profit from operations.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the average vesting period.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in full in the statement of recognised income and expense for the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
A charge is also made within net finance costs for the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the year.
This arises from the schemes being one year closer to payment.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays a defined contribution to the scheme: there are no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
Such contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Any prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
Share-Based Payments The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment to share-based employee compensation schemes in respect of awards granted after 7 November 2002.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation schemes.
The cost of employees services received in exchange for the grant of rights under both types of scheme is expensed over the vesting period, and is determined by reference to the fair value of the instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions e. g. earnings per share.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable under all schemes, and re-measures the fair value of the cash-settled schemes.
The Group recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes and current liabilities for cash-settled schemes.
The fair value is measured based on an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to shares arising under share-based employee compensation schemes.
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable to equity holders of the Company.
When the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of any proceeds received by the Employees Share Ownership Trusts.
Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to equity holders of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to equity holders of the Company.
80 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 81 Segmental Reporting A business segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to those of other business segments.
The two distinct businesses of Tobacco and Logistics have been used as the primary reporting segments.
Transactions between segments are undertaken on an arms length basis reflecting market prices for comparable products and services.
Use of Non-GAAP or Adjusted Measures Management believes that reporting non-GAAP or adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reflects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of profit from operations, net finance costs, profit before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, post-employment benefits net financing cost, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation effects.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported profit from operations are included within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported net finance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8.
The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are one-off in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not influenced by the day-to-day operations of the Group, and the movements in fair value of financial instruments which are marked-to-market and not naturally offset.
Adjusted net finance costs also exclude all interest on items not included within adjusted net debt.
This allows comparison of the Groups cost of debt with adjusted net debt.
The adjusted measures are used by management to assess the Groups financial performance and aid comparability of results year-on-year.
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are as follows: Acquisition Accounting Adjustments In 2008 there were a number of acquisition accounting adjustments required under IFRS which affected reported profit from operations.
The most significant of these were one-off adjustments related to the adjustment to fair value stocks held in Altadis at the date of acquisition, and the elimination of sales between the Altadis and Imperial Tobacco Groups.
Prior to the acquisition of Altadis, Imperial Tobacco sold products to Altadis, principally to the logistics business for distribution in France, Spain, Italy and Portugal, and recognised profit at the time of sale to Altadis.
Following the acquisition the enlarged Group recognises these profits when the products are sold out of the enlarged Group, so there was an initial post acquisition period during which no profit was recognised.
These one-off effects had no impact on the performance of the business or on cash flow.
Consequently we excluded these adjustments and their related taxation effects from our adjusted earnings measures.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite.
Acquired intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised.
We exclude from our adjusted measures the amortisation of acquired intangibles, other than software, and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles and tax deductible goodwill.
The deferred tax liability is excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the intangibles and goodwill.
The related current cash tax benefit is retained in the adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing tax benefit to the Group.
Impairment of goodwill is also excluded from our adjusted measures.
Brand Divestment The Group was required to divest a small number of fine cut and pipe tobacco brands as a condition of the European Commissions approval of the acquisition of Altadis.
This one-off gain and its related taxation effects have no impact on the operational performance of the business and have consequently been excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisfies the hedge accounting rules under IFRS and the Group chooses to designate the derivative financial instrument as a hedge.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a result, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments as permitted under IAS 39.
However, the Group does apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Groups foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise income statement volatility.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges from adjusted net financing costs.
Fair value gains and losses on the interest element of derivative financial instruments are excluded as they will reverse over time or are matched in future periods by interest rate charges.
Fair value gains and losses on the currency element of derivative financial instruments are excluded as the relevant foreign exchange gains and losses on the commercially hedged item are accumulated as a separate component of equity in accordance with the Groups policy on foreign currency.
Restructuring Costs Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Post-Employment Benefits Net Financing Cost The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement benefit liabilities, together with the unwind of discount on redundancy and social plans costs included in restructuring provisions, are reported within net finance costs.
These items together with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 81 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management Net Revenue Net revenue comprises the Tobacco segment revenue less duty and similar items.
Management considers this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Tobacco operations.
Distribution Fees Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue excluding the cost of distributed products.
Management considers this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges and finance lease liabilities.
New Accounting Standards The following interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers Application of these interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
The following standards and interpretations were issued but application was not mandatory for the period: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IAS 27 Revised Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 and IAS 1 amendment Puttable Financial Instruments IAS 39 amendments Reclassification of Financial Assets and Eligible Hedged Items IAS 39 IFRIC 9 amendment Embedded Derivatives IFRS 2 amendments Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, and Group Cash-settled Share-based Payments IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 1 and IAS 27 amendment Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 7 amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the net assets or results of the Group other than IFRS 3 Revised which may have a material impact on the reporting of future acquisitions.
IAS 1 Revised will require some changes in the format of the financial statements and terminology.
