1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:40 Page 131 Principal Subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group, which are unlisted unless otherwise indicated, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales, wholly owned Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Incorporated overseas, wholly owned Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Altadis S. A. Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products in Spain Altadis Distribution France S. A. S. France Distribution of tobacco products in France Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU, Spain Finance company Altadis Finance B. V. the Netherlands Finance company Altadis Maroc, S. A. Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products in Morocco Altadis Middle East Fzco.
United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East 1 Altadis USA Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United States of America Commonwealth Brands Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the United States of America Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista, S. A. Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services in Spain Dunkerquoise des Blends S. A. S. France Tobacco processing in France Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco CR s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy, Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland Imperial Tobacco Hellas S. A. Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece 1 Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl.
Italy Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Italy Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Dohnyforgalmaz Kft, Hungary Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Norway A. S. Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Imperial Tobacco Sigara five Tutunculuck Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey Sanayi five Ticaret A. S. Turkey Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A. S. Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co. Limited, Taiwan Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Taiwan Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan Company Limited, Taiwan Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis five Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey Pazarlama A. S. Turkey Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland Logista Italia S. p. A. Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Sweden Socit Nationale dExploitation Industrielle des Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in France and Tabacs et des Allumettes S. A. France export of tobacco products Supergroup S. A. S. France Wholesale distribution in France IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 131 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:40 Page 132 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Principal Subsidiaries continued Incorporated overseas continued Tobaccor S. A. S. France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Africa Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o, Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia Van Nelle Canada Limited, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands 800 JR Cigar Inc. United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the sale of cigars in the United States of America Incorporated overseas, partly owned 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Percentage owned Altadis Polska, S. A. Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland 99.97 ZAO Balkanskaya Zvezda, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 99.9 Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8 Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan 98.6 2 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A.
Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Ivory Coast 74.1 Imperial Tobacco TKS a. d. Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Macedonia 99.1 Incorporated overseas, joint ventures 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Percentage owned Altabana S. L. Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars 50.0 Corporacin Habanos, S. A. Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0 In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany The subsidiaries listed above were held throughout the year with the exception of 800 JR Cigar Inc. the remaining 49 per cent of which was acquired in October 2008.
The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
1 The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Altadis USA Inc. and Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire issued share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by a number of Group companies.
2 Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
