1849 Black Sun ImpTob p135 p136:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:43 Page 136 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Adjusted attributable earnings Distribution fees Market capitalisation Adjusted profit after tax attributable Distribution fees comprises the Logistics The market price of a share multiplied to the equity holders of the company.
segment revenue excluding the cost by the number of shares in issue.
Management Adjusted distribution margin Market share considers this an important measure The adjusted profit from operations Market share represents our best estimate in assessing the profitability of for the Logistics segment divided by of the volumes of our brands sold as a Logistics operations.
distribution fees for the Logistics segment.
percentage of total market volumes during Earnings per share adjusted the reporting period, including the most Adjusted measures Adjusted profit after tax attributable to the appropriate independent data available.
Management believes that reporting equity holders of the Company divided by We use latest monthly data only where the adjusted measures provides a useful the weighted average number of shares moving annual total would be misleading comparison of business performance in issue during the period excluding shares for example, if market entry or a significant and reflects the way in which the business held to satisfy employee share plans and product launch has taken place part way is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted shares purchased by the Company and through the reporting period.
measures of profit from operations, net held as Treasury shares.
finance costs, profit before tax, taxation, Make your own MYO attributable earnings and earnings Earnings per share basic Tobacco which is made into a cigarette per share exclude, where applicable, Profit after tax attributable to equity holders using a tube machine and filter tubes.
amortisation of acquired intangibles, of the Company divided by the weighted restructuring costs, retirement benefits Net revenue average number of shares in issue during net financing income, fair value gains and Net revenue comprises the Tobacco the period excluding shares held to losses on derivative financial instruments segment revenue less duty and similar satisfy employee share plans and shares in respect of commercially effective items.
Management considers this an purchased by the Company and hedges, one-off acquisition accounting held as Treasury shares.
important measure in assessing the adjustments, brand divestment gains profitability of Tobacco operations.
The adjusted Earnings per share diluted measures in this report are not defined As for basic earnings per share except that Other tobacco products OTP terms under International Financial the weighted average number of shares Tobacco products other than cigarettes Reporting Standards and may not be includes the weighted average number of i. e. fine cut tobacco, cigars, pipe tobacco, comparable with similarly titled measures shares that would be issued on conversion snuff and snus.
of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares Private label arising from rights under the employee Adjusted net debt An exclusive retailer or distributor brand share plans.
Management monitors the Groups usually in the low-price segment.
borrowing levels using adjusted net debt Effective tax rate Productivity which excludes interest accruals, the fair The tax charge in the income statement Productivity is measured as factory output value of derivative financial instruments as a percentage of profit before taxation.
providing commercial cash flow hedges Enterprise value EV and finance lease liabilities.
Roll your own RYO Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Tobacco which is used with rolling papers Adjusted operating margin Ex dividend date to hand make cigarettes.
The adjusted profit from operations for The date from which shares are traded the Tobacco business divided by net Snus without the right to the most recently revenue for the Tobacco segment.
Snus is a moist oral tobacco product.
It is manufactured and consumed primarily Adjusted profit from operations FMC in Sweden and Norway.
Profit from operations adjusted for Factory-made cigarettes.
amortisation of acquired intangibles, Total Shareholder Return TSR restructuring costs, one-off acquisition Fine cut tobacco FCT The total investment gain to shareholders accounting adjustments and brand Loose tobacco which is used with rolling resulting from the movement in the share divestment gains.
papers roll your own or filter tubes make price and assuming dividends are your own.
Amortisation immediately reinvested in shares.
A systematic charge to the income Framework Convention Travel retail statement to write off the value of on Tobacco Control Products made available in a market intangible assets with finite lives over The World Health Organizations Framework principally for travelling consumers.
Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC Volumes is the global tobacco treaty that seeks Attributable earnings Our volume Key Performance Indicator to regulate tobacco products.
Profit after tax attributable to the KPI represents the number of units equity holders of the company.
Cash conversion rate The International Organization for Weighted average cost of capital Cash conversion is calculated as cash Standardization, widely known as ISO, The weighted average of the costs of flow from operations before tax payments is an international standard-setting body less net capital expenditure relating comprised of representatives from various various types of capital that finance a to property, plant and equipment and national standards organisations.
Capital would software as a percentage of adjusted It promulgates worldwide industrial generally include a mix of debt profit from operations.
136 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 Business Overview Our Total Tobacco Portfolio Performance Highlights Imperial Tobacco is a leading international tobacco company, which manufactures, markets, distributes and Adjusted profit 1 1 sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, Net Revenue from Operations CIGARETTES FINE CUT TOBACCO CIGARS PAPERS & TUBES rolling papers and tubes.
United Kingdom 893m 601m See page 23 Germany 826m 403m See page 24 Get more online by visiting: Spain 610m 275m www.
com See page 25 1 View the 2009 Annual Report online 21bn 2 Access the latest shareholder information cigarettes UK 24bn 3 View archive information cigarettes 59bn Germany 4 Access shareholder services Our Balanced cigarettes Rest of EU 1,490m 566m Rest of EU 5 Tell us what you think Geographic See page 26 Footprint 174bn 30bn cigarettes cigarettes Spain Rest of World 14bn cigarettes Americas Americas 861m 288m See page 27 Rest of the World 2,138m 617m See page 28 Registered Office Imperial Tobacco Group PLC PO Box 244 Upton Road Bristol BS99 7UJ Adjusted profit UK 1 1 Distribution Fees from Operations Registered in England and Logistics Wales No: 3236483 Logistics 964m 177m Our logistics business is one of the See page 32 Registrars largest in Europe.
Its core business Equiniti is Tobacco Logistics as well as Aspect House providing other logistics services.
Spencer Road See page 8 for more Lancing information on our West Sussex BN99 6DA 2009 results.
1 Management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide a useful comparison of business performance and reflect the way in which the business is controlled.
Definitions are included in our accounting policies 0871 384 2037 within the notes to the financial statements.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported measures are 44 0 121 415 7009 also included in the relevant notes.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Imperial Tobacco is a leading international tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2009 company which manufactures, markets, distributes and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Registered Office Imperial Tobacco Group PLC PO Box 244 Upton Road Bristol BS99 7UJ UK www.
com DELIVERING Returns SUSTAINABLE focused GROWTH Sales Targeted growth investment We continue to build on our long track record of creating sustainable shareholder value.
Cost Strong optimisation cash flow See overleaf for an overview Our business model provides a virtuous of our business today.
circle of investment and sustainable See page 12 for details on growth and has consistently delivered our strategy.
strong returns to our shareholders.
