Financial statements Independent AudItors report to the Members of Informa plc We have audited the parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of Informa plc for the period from We conducted our audit in accordance with International 11 March 2009 to 31 December 2009 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing company balance sheet and the related Notes 1 to 9.
An audit includes examination, on a test financial statements have been prepared under the accounting basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in policies set out therein.
the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an We have reported separately on the Group financial statements assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made of Informa plc for the year ended 31 December 2009. by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, are appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law applied and adequately disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
information and explanations which we considered necessary To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements.
The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the parent company opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom In our opinion: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the the parent company financial statements give a true Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial have been properly prepared in accordance statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not deloitte LLp kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors information and explanations we require for our audit.
London, United Kingdom We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 2 March 2010 as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
124 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
