Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 1 general information On 30 June 2009, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a new parent company was introduced which is now called Informa plc the Company.
The previous parent company has been renamed as Informa Group plc Old Informa.
The introduction of a new parent company constitutes a Group reconstruction and has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
The comparative equity structure has been restated to reflect the new equity structure of the Company.
Therefore, although the Group reconstruction did not become effective until 30 June 2009, the consolidated financial statements of the Company are presented as if the Company had always been part of the Group.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2008 are also presented on this basis.
Earnings per share are unaffected by the reorganisation.
The Company is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and headquartered in Switzerland.
The address of the registered office is given on page 29.
The consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2009 and for year then ended comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries and its interests in associates and jointly controlled entities together referred to as the Group.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Principal Activities and Business Review sections of the Directors Report on page 27.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, for further analysis refer to Corporate Governance Statement on page 38.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
These financial statements have been presented to the nearest million, instead of 000 as previously reported.
The comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Standards and interpretations adopted in the current period The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: IAS 1 revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing Costs IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IAS 39 amended IFRIC 9 amended Embedded derivatives IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments: disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Improvements to IFRSs 2008 The adoption of these Standards and Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies except for adopting IFRS 7, IFRS 8 and IAS 1, which have only effected the presentation and disclosure in these financial statements.
IFRS 7 amended expands the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The Group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in this amendment.
66 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors to allocate resources and to assess performance.
In contrast, the predecessor Standard IAS 14 Segment Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments business and geographical, using a risks and rewards approach, with the Groups system of internal financial reporting to key management personnel serving only as the starting point for the identification of such segments.
As a result, following the adoption of IFRS 8, the identification of the Groups reportable segments has changed.
IAS 1 revised 2007 requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, a Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity has been included in the primary statements, showing changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
Further, IAS 1 requires a third comparative to be included within the Statement of Financial Position along with supplementary notes in the instance that any previously reported financial information is restated or represented.
In the current year, the Group restructuring and adoption of IFRS 8 triggers this requirement.
However, the Board of Directors have concluded that the addition of the 2007 comparative information would not provide the user of the consolidated financial statements with any additional helpful information or enhance the overall clarity of the consolidated financial statements, given a full explanation of the impact of both IFRS 8 and the Group restructuring are provided in the Notes 6 and 25 respectively.
Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IAS 24 revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures not endorsed by the EU IAS 27 amended 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements endorsed by the EU IAS 28 revised 2008 Investments in Associates endorsed by the EU IAS 32 amended 2009 Classification of Rights Issues endorsed by the EU IAS 39 amended 2009 Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items endorsed by the EU IFRS 2 amended 2009 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions not endorsed by the EU IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations endorsed by the EU IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not endorsed by the EU IFRIC 14 amended 2009 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement not endorsed by the EU IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners endorsed by the EU IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers endorsed by the EU IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments not endorsed by the EU Improvements to IFRSs 2009 not endorsed by the EU The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for: Treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 revised 2008 comes into effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 9 is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting of financial assets and reduces complexity.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 and therefore the Group has not commenced its evaluation of the impact on the Groups reported profit or net assets.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 67 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 2 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Adjusted results Management believe that adjusted results and adjusted earnings per share Note 14 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The principal adjustments made are in respect of: restructuring and reorganisation costs the costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating acquired businesses, non-recurring business restructuring, closure or disposal of businesses and costs associated with Board level changes: and amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets the Group continues to amortise other intangible assets and test for impairment of these assets.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible software assets is included in the adjusted results.
The amortisation charge in respect of all remaining other intangible assets is excluded from the adjusted results as management does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading.
The Groups operations are split into three broad market sectors of Academic Information, Professional & Commercial Information and Events & Training.
These divisions are further analysed into more specific segments which bring together products in comparable market areas under common business heads.
This is how the Groups operational management is structured and its results are reviewed and thus form the reporting segments Note 6.
Significant exchange rates The following significant exchange rates versus GBP were applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2009 2008 2009 2008 USD 1.5566 1.8637 1.6114 1.4602 EUR 1.1196 1.2627 1.1180 1.0465 68 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 3 Accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised over the term of the subscription.
Exhibition income is deferred and recognised when the exhibition is held.
Delegates income represents fees earned and is recognised when the event is held.
Copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the directory or publication.
Advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
Consulting and training revenues are recognised as services are delivered.
Where consultancy services are provided over a period of time, revenue is recognised using the stage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be measured reliably.
The stage of completion is determined with regard to key milestones in the contract being attained and the percentage of services performed under the contract as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2004 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 NonCurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 69 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 3 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units, as defined by the Board for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular cash generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal, the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 4.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows: Book lists 20 years Journal titles 20 - 40 years Database content and intellectual property 4 - 10 years Large scale events and exhibitions 8 - 10 years Software, which is not integral to a related item of hardware, is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be 3-10 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Property and equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 - 15 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Income Statement.
70 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Inventory Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The statements of financial position of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the hedging and translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging and translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 71 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 3 Accounting policies continued Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Statement of Financial Position as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease and is matched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
72 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Pension costs Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
The interest cost arising on the pension liability less the interest return on the scheme assets is presented within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Income Statement and in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The expected return on scheme assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension scheme.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments.
The classification is determined by Management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments within the Group.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 73 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 3 Accounting policies continued Available-for-sale investments Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair value of listed securities are based on quoted market prices and the unlisted securities are based on cost.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income Statement for the period.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 39 days 2008: 38 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
74 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured at the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 75 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 3 Accounting policies continued The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Income Statement for the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 24.
ESOP Trust shares Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection with certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
4 critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors are required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In addition to the judgment taken by management in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgments concerning the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
76 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on the acquisition of a business combination, management are required to make estimates when utilising the Groups valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows, revenue and gross profit multiples.
Asset lives are estimated based on the nature of the intangible asset acquired and range between 3 and 40 years.
Valuation of share-based payments In order to determine the value of share-based payments, management are required to make an estimation of the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price calculated over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The list of inputs used in the Binomial and Monte Carlo Simulation models to calculate the fair values are provided in Note 37.
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value Management have made a number of assumptions with regards to the models used to value financial instruments at their fair value at year end.
Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied.
Note 24 details the methods used to value the primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups borrowing requirements and the derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate profile.
For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
Other financial instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, where possible, by observable market prices or rates.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets There are a number of assumptions management have considered in performing impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets, as determining whether goodwill or intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 15 details the assumptions that have been applied.
Pension assumptions There are a number of assumptions management have considered on the advice of actuaries which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Note 36 details the assumptions which have been adopted.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgment in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgment is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and restructuring.
These provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Details of the Groups provisions are set out in Note 28.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome Note 28.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 77 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 5 revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Subscriptions 425.7 363.6 Delegates 304.7 408.9 Copy sales 202.4 188.9 Exhibition 89.3 88.2 Sponsorship 50.5 52.6 Consulting 79.0 79.1 Advertising 31.6 38.6 Other 38.5 58.1 Total revenue 1,221.7 1,278.0 6 Business segments Business segments Management has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Board of Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
In prior years, externally reported segment information was based on the markets being served rather than the services being provided.
Information currently reported to the Board for the purposes of managing performance is now focused on the different services the Group offers, namely publishing, and training and events.
The Groups five newly identified reportable segments under IFRS 8 are therefore as follows: Academic Information AI This division, which includes the Taylor & Francis publishing business, provides a portfolio of online and print publications, primarily for academic users across the spectrum of Science, Technology, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Professional and Commercial Information PCI This division, which includes Datamonitor, Informa Business Information and Informa Financial Information provides information, across a range of formats and on a global basis, to a variety of sectors including Medical, Pharmaceutical, Financial, Law, Commerce, Commodities, Maritime and Telecoms.
Events and Training Europe, US and ROW These three divisions provide events and training to Europe, US and Rest of the World ROW.
Information regarding the Groups reportable segments is reported below and has been prepared consistently with the Groups accounting policies.
Amounts reported for the prior year have been restated in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8.
78 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Segment revenue and results 31 December 2009 Events Events Events AI PCI Europe US ROW Unallocated Total m m m m m m m Revenue Note 5 294.4 368.3 242.4 201.1 115.5 1,221.7 Adjusted operating profit 104.3 118.7 40.1 27.6 18.8 309.5 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 0.7 13.3 9.3 3.4 1.0 6.4 34.1 Intangible asset 1 amortisation Note 16 21.7 45.1 23.5 27.7 11.7 129.7 Operating profit 81.9 60.3 7.3 3.5 6.1 6.4 145.7 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 31 1.0 Finance costs Note 10 51.7 Investment income Note 11 3.5 Profit before tax 96.5 1 Excludes software amortisation.
31 December 2008 Events Events Events AI PCI Europe US ROW Unallocated Total m m m m m m m Revenue Note 5 243.5 366.7 314.0 232.8 121.0 1,278.0 Adjusted operating profit 76.4 102.5 56.0 44.9 26.0 305.8 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 1.2 4.3 4.8 5.9 0.5 0.6 17.3 Intangible asset 1 amortisation Note 16 19.6 42.4 26.6 24.8 10.5 123.9 Operating profit 55.6 55.8 24.6 14.2 15.0 0.6 164.6 Profit on disposal of businesses Note 31 16.8 Finance costs Note 10 77.4 Investment income Note 11 5.0 Profit before tax 109.0 1 Excludes software amortisation.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 3.
Adjusted operating result by segment is the measure reported to the Groups Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Unallocated costs of 6.4m 2008: 0.6m relate to the aborted transaction costs and change of domicile refer to Note 8.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 79 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 6 Business segments continued Segment assets 2009 2008 m m AI 930.1 935.0 PCI 1,070.6 1,136.5 Events Europe 500.3 557.7 Events US 408.0 458.2 Events ROW 155.5 216.8 Total segment assets 3,064.5 3,304.2 Unallocated assets 74.2 157.0 Total assets 3,138.7 3,461.2 For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, management monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for corporate balances, including taxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segment.
80 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The Groups revenues from its major products and services were as follows: 2009 2008 m m AI Subscriptions 161.4 124.1 Copy sales 131.9 118.5 Other 1.1 0.9 Total AI 294.4 243.5 PCI Subscriptions 264.3 239.5 Copy sales 70.5 70.4 Advertising 22.4 26.6 Other 11.1 30.2 Total PCI 368.3 366.7 Events Delegates 304.7 408.9 Exhibition 89.3 88.2 Sponsorship 50.5 52.6 Consulting 79.0 79.1 Advertising 9.2 12.0 Other 26.3 27.0 Total events 559.0 667.8 Total revenue 1,221.7 1,278.0 Information about major customers No individual customer amounts to more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographical location are detailed below: Revenue Segment assets 2009 2008 2009 2008 Geographical information m m m m United Kingdom 168.1 164.0 1,412.0 1,475.5 North America 480.8 467.9 1,108.6 1,432.9 Continental Europe 314.2 380.1 377.7 289.3 Rest of World 258.6 266.0 240.4 263.5 1,221.7 1,278.0 3,138.7 3,461.2 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 81 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 7 net operating expenses Operating profit has been arrived at after crediting charging: Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales 445.0 445.0 490.3 490.3 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 9 330.3 330.3 344.5 344.5 Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 13.5 129.7 143.2 5.2 123.9 129.1 Depreciation 17 9.2 9.2 10.8 10.8 Impairment of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 Net foreign exchange gains losses 1.4 1.4 0.2 0.2 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.2 Operating lease expenses Land and buildings 34 26.5 26.5 21.8 21.8 Other 34 0.9 0.9 1.2 1.2 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 34.1 34.1 17.3 17.3 Other expenses 84.3 84.3 97.2 97.2 Total net operating expenses 912.2 163.8 1,076.0 972.2 141.2 1,113.4 Amounts payable to the auditors, Deloitte LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is provided below: 2009 2008 m m Fee payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.7 0.9 Fee payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 Total audit fees 1.1 1.2 Fee payable to the Companys auditors for non-audit services comprises: Corporate finance services 1.0 0.2 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 1.2 0.4 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 38 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
82 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 8 restructuring and reorganisation costs 2009 2008 m m Business restructuring 27.7 14.9 Integration costs 1.8 Aborted transaction costs 2.1 0.6 Change of domicile 4.3 34.1 17.3 In the year ended 31 December 2009, business restructuring costs comprise reorganisation costs of 5.0m 2008: 1.4m, redundancy costs of 18.0m 2008: 9.9m and vacant property provisions of 4.7m 2008: 3.6m.
9 staff numbers and costs The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of employees 2009 2008 AI 1,457 1,477 PCI 3,149 3,218 Events 3,985 4,643 8,591 9,338 Since the adoption of IFRS 8 Operating segments there has been a change to our reportable segments Note 6, which has determined the split of our staff numbers.
The comparative information has been restated to reflect this change.
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 293.5 306.5 Social security costs 27.3 29.0 Pension costs charged to operating profit Note 36 8.9 8.5 Share-based payment Note 37 0.6 0.5 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 330.3 344.5 Redundancy costs Note 8 18.0 9.9 348.3 354.4 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 83 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 9 staff numbers and costs continued The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 54.
2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.9 2.6 Post-employment benefits 0.8 0.3 Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 2.8 3.0 10 Finance costs 2009 2008 Note m m Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 47.7 73.4 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 36 3.7 3.9 Total interest expense 51.4 77.3 Hedge ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges 0.3 0.1 51.7 77.4 11 Investment income 2009 2008 Note m m Loans and receivables: Interest income on bank deposits 1.0 0.8 Expected return on pension scheme assets 36 2.5 4.2 3.5 5.0 84 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 12 taxation The tax credit charge comprises: 2009 2008 Note m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 14.7 24.8 Foreign tax 38.4 22.8 53.1 47.6 Deferred tax: Current year 21 28.8 24.6 Deferred tax arising on Group restructuring 21 34.3 Total tax credit charge on profit on ordinary activities 10.0 23.0 The tax related to adjusting items within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Amortisation of other intangible assets Note 16 129.7 37.3 123.9 37.2 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 34.1 6.4 17.3 5.4 Loss profit on disposal of businesses Note 31 1.0 0.2 16.8 4.7 Deferred tax arising on Group restructuring 34.3 164.8 78.2 124.4 37.9 The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated on each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
The total tax credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2009 2008 m % m % Profit before tax 96.5 109.0 Tax charge at weighted average rate 22.2 23.0 21.8 20.0 Permanent differences 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.1 Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not been recognised 0.8 0.9 Deferred tax arising on Group restructuring 34.3 35.6 Tax credit charge and effective rate for the year 10.0 10.4 23.0 21.1 In addition to the income tax credit charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax charge of 3.5m 2008: credit of 10.5m all of which relates to deferred tax Note 21 has been recognised directly in equity during the year.
The tax charge arising on the disposal of the relevant subsidiary was 0.2m 2008: 4.6m.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 85 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 13 dividends 2009 2008 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 9.51p per share 48.0 1 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 5.13p per share 25.9 1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 3.28p per share 16.6 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 3.60p per share 21.6 38.2 73.9 Proposed second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 7.85p per share 2008: 3.28p per share 47.0 16.6 1 Dividend per share has been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue.
Details of the rights issue are provided in Note 25.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 11.30 pence per ordinary share, the interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 6.10 pence per ordinary share and the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 3.90 pence per ordinary share have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue.
Holders of 71,628 2008: Nil ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each have waived their rights to receive dividends.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan DAP arrangements put in place as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source a DAP election.
Shareholders who i held 100,000 or fewer shares on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own the shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, are deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the DAP arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 100,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make a DAP election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made a DAP election, or are deemed to have made a DAP election, dividends will be received directly from the Company, domiciled in Switzerland, and will be taxed accordingly.
86 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 14 earnings per share Basic The basic earnings per share calculation is based on a profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of 105.6m 2008: 84.9m.
This profit on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less those non-vested shares held by employee share ownership trusts which is 560,764,541 2008: 505,049,586 restated.
Diluted The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic earnings per share calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 560,843,788 2008: 505,358,233 restated.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of diluted potential ordinary shares: 1 2009 2008 Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation 560,764,541 505,049,586 Effect of dilutive share options 79,247 308,647 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculation 560,843,788 505,358,233 1 Restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue.
Adjusted earnings per share The basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share calculations have been made to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
They are based on the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations above except that profits are based on continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders and are adjusted for items that are not perceived by management to be part of the underlying trends in the business, and the tax effect of those adjusting items, as follows: 2009 2008 m m Profit for the year 106.5 86.0 Minority interest 0.9 1.1 Adjusting operating profit items net of attributable taxation 86.6 86.5 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 192.2 171.4 Earnings per share: 1 Adjusted basic p 34.27 33.94 1 Adjusted diluted p 34.27 33.92 1 Restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 87 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 15 goodwill m Cost At 1 January 2008 1,569.8 Additions in the year Note 32 2.1 Derecognised on disposals of subsidiaries in the year Note 31 0.1 Exchange differences 258.3 At 1 January 2009 1,830.1 Additions in the year Note 32 0.4 Derecognised on disposals of subsidiaries in the year Note 31 1.4 Exchange differences 83.3 At 31 December 2009 1,745.8 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2008 15.5 Exchange differences 4.1 At 1 January 2009 19.6 Exchange differences 1.1 At 31 December 2009 18.5 Carrying amount At 31 December 2009 1,727.3 At 31 December 2008 1,810.5 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the major groups of cash generating units is set out below: 2009 2008 m m AI 406.9 425.9 PCI 692.5 717.0 Events Europe 344.8 363.1 Events US 225.4 248.0 Events ROW 57.7 56.5 1,727.3 1,810.5 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates for the period.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts and long-term growth in gross domestic product.
The Group has changed its method of calculating the value in use from estimating cash flows over 25 years to a terminal value calculation.
88 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors for the next year and extrapolates cash flows for the following four years based on an estimated growth rates.
The estimates of future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for managements estimates of future performance.
The cash flows thereafter are based upon the long-term historic growth rates of the underlying territories in which the CGU operates.
The pre-tax discount rates applied are 9.5% for AI and PCI and 10.5% for the Events businesses.
These rates have increased this year reflecting the risk premium associated with each CGU.
A growth rate of 3% has been applied for years 2-5 in AI and PCI and a range between 2% and 15% for the Events businesses.
The rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The terminal growth rate of 2% has been used for AI and PCI, and 3% for the Events businesses.
The only change from last year is the increase by 1% point for the Events businesses.
This is consistent with appropriate external sources for the relevant markets.
The most recent financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors have been prepared after considering the most recent economic environment which has resulted in more conservative estimates about the future.
At 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008, the carrying amounts of goodwill for CGUs were tested for impairment and deemed not to be impaired.
The carrying amounts were calculated based on future projected cash flows discounted at rates as disclosed above, which represented the Groups weighted average cost of capital plus a premium for risk.
Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: An increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1%.
A decrease of between 1% and 5.5% depending on the CGU on forecast operating profits over the next 5 years, and a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% for all CGUs in the Events businesses.
The sensitivity analysis shows that no impairment would result from an increase in the pre-tax discount rate.
An impairment of between 0.5 million and 7.3 million would result from sensitivities applied to the growth rates.
Those CGUs which had the lowest level of headroom or potential impairment in this analysis related to the Events businesses, which predominantly concentrate on the Financial Services sector.
If the economic environment surrounding this sector continues to decline throughout 2010, the effect of which would erode the customer base further, there may be the possibility of a future impairment.
Management will conduct regular reviews to monitor this.
2 Of the 11.3m 2008: 27.4m additions to intangible software assets, 11.3m 2008: 25.3m is represented by cash paid.
3 The reclassification of 21.4m relates to Intangible software assets within Property and equipment Note 17 which have now been correctly presented within Intangible software assets.
Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of 59.0m 2008: 55.6m and accumulated amortisation of 7.2m 2008: 1.2m which relates to software that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
90 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 17 property and equipment Freehold Leasehold Equipment land and land and fixtures buildings buildings and fittings Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 0.6 9.0 92.1 101.7 1 Additions 1.7 12.2 13.9 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1.1 1.1 Disposals 0.5 12.8 13.3 Exchange differences 0.3 5.3 5.6 At 1 January 2009 0.6 10.5 97.9 109.0 1 Additions 1.1 3.8 3.9 8.8 2 Reclassification 21.4 21.4 Disposals 1.9 5.2 7.1 Exchange differences 0.5 4.5 5.0 At 31 December 2009 1.7 11.9 70.7 84.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2008 0.3 5.8 71.0 77.1 Disposals 0.4 9.2 9.6 Charge for the year 1.2 9.6 10.8 Exchange differences 0.3 3.3 3.6 At 1 January 2009 0.3 6.9 74.7 81.9 Disposals 1.7 1.3 3.0 Charge for the year 0.1 1.1 8.0 9.2 2 Reclassification 21.4 21.4 Exchange differences 0.3 3.5 3.8 At 31 December 2009 0.4 6.0 56.5 62.9 Carrying amount At 31 December 2009 1.3 5.9 14.2 21.4 At 31 December 2008 0.3 3.6 23.2 27.1 1 All the 8.8m 2008: 13.9m additions to tangible fixed assets was paid in cash during the year.
2 The reclassification of 21.4m relates to Intangible software assets within Property and equipment which have now been correctly presented within Intangible software assets Note 16.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 91 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 18 subsidiaries The listing below shows the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2009 which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country of registration Ordinary Company and incorporation Principal activity shares held Taylor & Francis Group LLC USA Publishing 100% Taylor and Francis Group Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa Healthcare AS Norway Publishing 100% Informa Healthcare AB Sweden Publishing 100% Agra Informa Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and publishing 100% Euroforum BV Netherlands Conference organisation and publishing 100% Euroforum Deutschland Holding GmbH Germany Conference organisation and publishing 100% IBC Asia S Pts Limited Singapore Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa USA Inc USA Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa UK Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% MMS Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% PJB Publications Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% I. I. R. Holdings Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% 1 Robbins-Gioia LLC USA Performance improvement 100% AchieveGlobal Inc USA Performance improvement 100% ESI International Inc USA Performance improvement 100% I. I. R. Limited England and Wales Conference organisation 100% Institute for International Research Inc USA Conference organisation 100% The Forum Corporation of North America USA Performance improvement 100% Huthwaite Inc USA Performance improvement 100% IIR Deutschland GmbH Germany Conference organisation 100% Institute for International Research IIR BV Netherlands Conference organisation 100% Datamonitor Limited England and Wales Business information 100% Informa IP GmbH Switzerland Royalties and licences 100% Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Finance 100% Informa Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa Group plc England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa IP LLC USA Holding company 100% 1 The holding in Robbins-Gioia is structured by proxy agreement with certain powers retained by the proxy holders to among others, protect the national security interests of the government of the United States of America.
Of the above only Informa IP GmbH, Informa IP LLC, Informa Finance GmbH and Informa Group Holdings Limited are directly owned by Informa plc.
The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year.
Refer to Note 3 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
92 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 19 trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Current Trade receivables 195.3 236.9 Less: provision 25.2 22.1 Trade receivable net 170.1 214.8 Other receivables 11.9 20.1 Prepayments and accrued income 31.8 42.1 Conference costs in advance 6.5 10.5 220.3 287.5 The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 39 days 2008: 38 days.
The Group has provision policies for its various divisions which have been determined by references to past default experience.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 24 f. Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
20 cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 m m Cash and cash equivalents 17.5 13.7 Bank overdrafts 1.0 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 16.5 10.3 Bank overdrafts are included in cash and cash equivalents as they form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 24 d. Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 93 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 21 deferred tax Accelerated tax Pensions Cash flow depreciation Intangibles Note 36 Other Losses hedges Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 2.0 291.1 2.4 21.6 3.2 4.6 261.3 Credit to equity for the year 0.9 9.6 10.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.6 2.6 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year 0.6 28.2 0.5 2.5 24.6 Foreign exchange movements 38.3 38.3 At 1 January 2009 2.6 303.8 2.8 19.1 3.2 14.2 267.1 Credit debit to equity for the year 0.4 3.9 3.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year 1.6 31.7 0.1 1.2 28.8 Adjustment due to group restructuring 34.3 34.3 Foreign exchange movements 14.4 1.7 12.7 At 31 December 2009 4.2 223.8 3.1 16.2 3.2 10.3 195.2 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for Consolidated Statement of Financial Position purposes: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax liability 228.0 306.5 Deferred tax asset 32.8 39.4 195.2 267.1 At 31 December 2009, the Group has unused tax losses of 11.5m 2008: 11.5m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 3.2m 2008: 3.2m, has been recognised in respect of these losses.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of post acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 3.1m 2008: 512.2m.
The deferred tax liability has significantly reduced, principally because of changes to the legislation concerning the tax treatment of overseas dividends in the United Kingdom.
The majority of the deferred tax liability represents withholding tax payable on dividends.
No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra group dividends in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
94 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 22 Inventory 2009 2008 m m Raw materials 0.8 1.0 Work in progress 3.6 2.8 Finished goods and goods for resale 34.7 36.1 39.1 39.9 Write down of inventory during the year amounted to 1.6m 2008: 2.8m.
23 Borrowings 2009 2008 m m Non-current 1 Bank borrowings 889.1 1,234.6 Total non-current borrowings 889.1 1,234.6 Current 1 Bank borrowings 116.3 Loan notes due in less than one year 1.2 Total current borrowings 117.5 Total borrowings 889.1 1,352.1 1 The current weighted average effective interest rate taking into account all bank loans and interest derivatives is 4.7% 2008: 5.5%.
There have been no breaches of bank covenants during the year.
The bank borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
The Group maintains the following significant lines of credit: Syndicated bank loan facilities comprised of an amortising term loan facility that has been fully drawn in three currency tranches of GBP 316.2m 2008: GBP 400.5m, USD 630.0m 2008: USD 798.0m and EUR 135.0m 2008: EUR 171.0m and a 500.0m 2008: 500.0m revolving credit facility.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus 0.6% 2008: LIBOR plus 1%.
52.2m 2008: 62.0m comprised of a number of bilateral bank facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus margins that vary between 0% and 6%.
The Group had the following committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December: 2009 2008 Expiry date m m In more than two years 433.7 252.5 The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 24 g. Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 95 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 24 Financial instruments a Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups risk management policies.
The committee meets and reports regularly to the Board of Directors and the Risk Committee a sub-Committee of the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Group treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies that have been established to identify and analyse risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies provide written principles on funding and investment policies, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, who undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2008.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings Note 23, cash and cash equivalents Note 20 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 25, reserves and retained earnings.
Gearing ratio The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the capital structure on a quarterly basis and as part of this review, the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as the net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including current and non-current borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity including capital, reserves and retained earnings.
96 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 b Categories of Financial instruments Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
2009 2008 Notes m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Trade receivables 19 170.1 214.8 Other receivables 19 11.9 20.1 Cash and cash equivalents 20 16.5 10.3 Total financial assets 198.5 245.2 Financial liabilities Amortised cost Bank borrowings 23 889.1 1,350.9 Loan notes 23 1.2 Trade payables 29 28.5 30.8 Accruals 29 134.4 167.5 Other payables 29 39.5 27.7 Deferred consideration 29 2.3 15.5 1 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 39.6 46.1 Total financial liabilities 1,133.4 1,639.7 1 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships are presented 26.4m 2008: 20.9m within current liabilities and 13.2m 2008: 25.2m within non-current liabilities.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 97 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 24 Financial instruments continued c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Groups activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and by managing the risk of currencies of its borrowings, the Group is able to achieve a level of natural hedge of both the Statement of Financial Position net currency assets and also the currency earnings due to the currency interest payable.
Refer to both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk in Note 24 d and e respectively.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board sets the Groups treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Groups businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
Group treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
The Board and the Treasury Committee provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as funding, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investments of excess liquidity.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of managements control actions in mitigating against both external and internal risk events.
The risk model consolidates unique risk events and aggregated risk categories at both a business unit level and Group-wide, and the results are presented to the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee for discussion and review, and may drive the allocation of Internal Audit previously known as Group Internal Control resources to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
d Interest rate risk The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets and is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings by the use of interest rate swap contracts.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either protecting the Statement of Financial Position or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
The Group policy is to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to hedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency during that period.
This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating to fixed interest payments which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest-based loan covenants.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
Interest rate swap contracts The Group draws down on its borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
A portion of those are then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group treasury policy in order to manage its cash flow interest rate risk.
Such contracts enable the Group to convert borrowings from floating rates and swap them into fixed rates.
Under interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
98 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the future interest rate curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balance at the end of the financial year.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: Cash flow hedges Average contracted Notional fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value Outstanding receive floating, 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 pay fixed contracts % % m % m % Within one year 4.45 4.97 144.4 313.2 26.4 20.9 Within one to two years 4.59 4.73 397.2 202.4 10.4 14.3 Within two to five years 5.66 4.64 112.0 495.8 2.8 10.9 653.6 1,011.4 39.6 46.1 At 31 December 2009, the fixed interest rates vary from 3.13% to 6.15% 2008: 4.01% to 6.23%, and the main floating rates are EURIBOR and LIBOR.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2009 will be released to the Consolidated Income Statement when the related bank borrowings are repaid Note 23.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: NonNonFixed Floating interest Total Fixed Floating interest Total rate rate bearing 2009 rate rate bearing 2008 m m m m m m m m Bank borrowings 653.6 235.5 889.1 1,011.5 339.4 1,350.9 Loan notes 1.2 1.2 Trade payables 28.5 28.5 30.8 30.8 Accruals 134.4 134.4 167.5 167.5 Other payables 39.5 39.5 27.7 27.7 Deferred consideration 2.3 2.3 15.5 15.5 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge 1 accounting relationships 39.6 39.6 46.1 46.1 693.2 235.5 204.7 1,133.4 1,057.6 340.6 241.5 1,639.7 1 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships are presented 26.4m 2008: 20.9m within current liabilities and 13.2m 2008: 25.2m within non-current liabilities.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis A high percentage of loans are designated in hedging relationships, and hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be effected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year would decrease or increase by 2.4m 2008: 3.4m.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 99 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 24 Financial instruments continued e Foreign currency risk The Group is a business with significant net US Dollar USD and net Euro EUR transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Without action in conversion of USD and other trading currencies, such as the EUR, cash positions in these currencies would develop imbalances by growing GBP debt.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
This policy has the effect of protecting the Groups consolidated Statement of Financial Position from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
After taking into account foreign currency borrowings of 526.0m 2008: 730.4m used to hedge against net investments in foreign subsidiaries, the remaining monetary assets and liabilities are in the same currency as the functional currency of the operations involved.
The following significant exchange rates versus GBP applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2009 2008 2009 2008 USD 1.5566 1.8637 1.6114 1.4602 EUR 1.1196 1.2627 1.1180 1.0465 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group receives approximately 45% of its revenues and incurs approximately 41% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged to USD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP.
Each 1 cent movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate has a circa 3.5m impact on revenue and a circa 1.1m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to USD interest and US tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
The Group receives approximately 9% of its revenues and incurs approximately 10% of its costs in Euros.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the Euro against the GBP.
Each 1 cent movement in the Euro to GBP exchange rate has a circa 1.0m impact on revenue and a circa 0.2m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to Euro interest and Euro tax liabilities.
100 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Statement of Financial Position are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high creditratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies such as Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
No new credit exposure on derivative financial instruments is permitted to a financial institution with a rating lower then A or equivalent.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the Treasury Committee at least annually.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The main components of this provision are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss provision is determined by references to past default experience.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit rating system to assess the potential customers credit quality.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each division.
As the events division works on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a very low bad debt history.
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure to any single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, which are non-interest bearing, approximates their fair value.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 101 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 24 Financial instruments continued f Credit risk continued Ageing of trade receivables: Gross 2009 Provision 2009 Gross 2008 Provision 2008 m m m m Not past due 98.5 0.9 141.6 0.2 Past due 0 30 days 50.8 0.7 43.5 0.1 Past due 31 60 days 16.7 0.4 17.0 0.1 Past due 61 90 days 6.8 0.4 13.0 0.1 Past due 91 120 days 4.9 0.4 8.2 0.5 Past due greater than 120 days 17.6 22.4 13.6 21.1 195.3 25.2 236.9 22.1 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
Included in the past due greater than 120 days, is a provision relating to returns on books of 9.3m 2008: 9.5m.
This provision is based on Managements best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall impairment balance.
Included in the Groups trade receivables, are debtors with a carrying amount of 9.0m 2008: 9.7m, which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
Movement in the provision: 2009 2008 m m Balance at beginning of the year 22.1 13.8 Provision recognised 5.3 10.9 Receivables written off as uncollectible 1.3 1.9 Amounts recovered during the year 0.9 0.7 25.2 22.1 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the above amount.
There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade receivables in both 2009 and 2008.
102 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury.
They have built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in Note 23 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the Groups interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Carrying Contractual Less than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 31 December 2009 m m m m m Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 198.5 198.5 198.5 198.5 198.5 198.5 31 December 2008 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 245.2 245.2 245.2 245.2 245.2 245.2 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Statement of Financial Position.
The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle the debt.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Carrying Contractual Less than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 31 December 2009 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 889.1 896.1 896.1 Trade and other payables 202.4 202.4 202.4 Deferred consideration 2.3 2.3 2.3 1,093.8 1,100.8 204.7 896.1 Derivative financial liability Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 39.6 40.4 29.3 9.1 2.0 1,133.4 1,141.2 234.0 9.1 898.1 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 103 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 24 Financial instruments continued g Liquidity risk continued Carrying Contractual Less than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 31 December 2008 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 1,350.9 1,369.1 128.0 116.9 1,124.2 Loan borrowings 1.2 1.2 1.2 Trade and other payables 226.0 226.0 222.6 3.4 Deferred consideration 15.5 15.5 15.5 1,593.6 1,611.8 367.3 116.9 1,127.6 Derivative financial liability Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 46.1 51.5 20.0 18.9 12.6 1,639.7 1,663.3 387.3 135.8 1,140.2 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Statement of Financial Position.
The Group draws down on its borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
A portion of those are then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group Treasury policy.
The first portion of these swaps that matures within twelve months is 144.4m 2008: 313.2m, the second portion that matures in a period greater than one year but less than two years is 397.2m 2008: 202.4m and the final portion that matures between two and five years is 112.0m 2008: 495.8m.
h Fair value of financial instruments The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: the fair value of derivative instruments is calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives: and the fair value of financial guarantee contracts is determined using option pricing models where the main assumptions are the probability of default by the specified counterparty extrapolated from market-based credit information and the amount of loss, given the default.
104 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate to their fair values due to the short maturity of the instruments or because they bear interest at rates approximate to the market.
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated amount fair value amount fair value 2009 2009 2008 2008 Notes m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Trade receivables 19 170.1 170.1 214.8 214.8 Other receivables 19 11.9 11.9 20.1 20.1 Cash and cash equivalents 20 16.5 16.5 10.3 10.3 Financial liabilities Amortised Cost Bank borrowings 23 889.1 889.1 1,350.9 1,350.9 Loan notes 23 1.2 1.2 Trade payables 29 28.5 28.5 30.8 30.8 Accruals 29 134.4 134.4 167.5 167.5 Other payables 29 39.5 39.5 27.7 27.7 Deferred consideration 29 2.3 2.3 15.5 15.5 i Fair value measurements recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 39.6 39.6 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 105 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 25 share capital The Company was incorporated under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 on 11 March 2009, as a public company limited by shares with the name Informa Limited and changed its name on 29 April 2009 to Informa plc.
The Company became the parent company of the Informa Group and the existing parent company, then also named Informa plc, was renamed Informa Group plc.
The Company was incorporated on 11 March 2009 with an authorised share capital of 1,000,000 divided into 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
Of such shares, twenty ordinary shares were taken by the subscribers to the memorandum of association and were paid up in full in cash.
On 21 April 2009 the authorised share capital was increased to 150,000,012,000 unissued ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each and consolidated into 555,555,600 ordinary shares of 27 pence each.
On 27 April 2009 the total authorised share capital was then increased to 202,500,000 divided into 750,000,000 shares of 27 pence each.
On 27 May 2009 the Group undertook a 2 for 5 rights issue, offering 170,096,930 new ordinary shares at 150 pence per share, representing a bonus to existing shareholders of 0.1887 ordinary shares per ordinary share held.
The rights issue raised 242.5m, net of expenses of 12.5m.
The issue price of 150 pence per new ordinary share represented a 48.9 per cent discount to the closing middle market price of 297.25 pence per ordinary share on 30 April 2009 being the last business day before the announcement of the rights issue, adjusted for the final dividend for 2008 which was not paid on the new ordinary shares, and a 40.6 per cent discount to the theoretical ex-rights price based on that closing price, also adjusted for that dividend.
On 30 June 2009 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Old Informa, the former holding company of the Group, and its shareholders under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006, and as sanctioned by the High Court, all the issued shares in that Company were cancelled and the same number of new shares were issued to the Company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Old Informa for each ordinary share in the Company held on the record date, 30 June 2009.
On 20 July 2009, the Jersey Court approved the reduction of capital of Informa plc, whereby the nominal value of each ordinary share was reduced from 27 pence to 0.1 pence and the balance of the share premium account was transferred to retained earnings.
The effect of the reduction of capital was to reduce share capital by 160.1m, reduce share premium by 1,839.3m and increase retained earnings by 1,999.4m.
This also resulted in an authorised share capital of 202,500,000 divided into 202,500,000,000 shares of 0.1 pence.
Share capital as at 31 December 2009 amounted to 0.6m.
During the period, Informa plc issued, in addition to the rights issue, 223,568 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence for consideration of 0.2m as a result of the exercise of options and the vesting of LTIPs 2008: 494,738 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence for a consideration of 1.2m were issued as a result of the exercise of share options.
2009 2008 m m Authorised 202,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2008: 600,000,000 of 0.1p each 202.5 0.6 1 2009 2008 m m Issued and fully paid 599,239,331 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2008: 425,118,833 of 27p each 0.6 114.8 1 Restated to reflect the new capital structure of the new parent company of the Group refer to Note 1.
106 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 114.8 114.6 Rights issue 45.9 Shares issued on options exercised 0.2 Capital reduction 160.1 At 31 December 0.6 114.8 1 Restated to reflect the new capital structure of the new parent company of the Group refer to Note 1.
Share options held by Directors as at 31 December 2009 are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 52.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 107 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 26 capital and reserves This note provides further explanation for the reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share capital and share premium The share capital and share premium reflect the new equity structure of the Company refer to Note 1.
Reserve for shares to be issued This reserve relates to share options granted to employees under the employee share option plan.
Further information about sharebased payments to employees is set out in Note 37.
Merger reserve The merger reserve has not changed since 2004, when it was created from the business combination with Taylor & Francis Group plc.
Other reserve Other reserve includes the redemption reserve, which is the reserve fund into which profits are allocated for the purpose of redeeming or buying back shares in the Company.
Since the creation of the new equity structure the inversion accounting has been recorded in this reserve refer to Note 1.
ESOP Trust shares As at 31 December 2009 the Informa Employee Share Trust held 189,050 2008: 93,269 ordinary shares in the Company at a cost of 0.4m 2008: 0.4m and a market value of 0.6m 2008: 0.2m.
71,628 shares 2008: Nil held by the Employee Share Trust have not been allocated to individuals and accordingly, dividends on these shares are waived.
The remaining 117,422 shares 2008: 93,269 held by the Employee Share Trust have been allocated to an individual and accordingly, dividends on these shares are payable.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held 0.0% 2008: 0.0% of its own called up share capital.
Hedging and translation reserve This reserve has two elements i the hedging reserve which comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred: and ii the translation reserve which comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Capital reserve The capital reserve was created on 19 December 2007 as a result of the reduction of the Companys issued share capital and cancellation of the Companys share premium account.
On 31 March 2008, the entire capital reserve was released to retained earnings in accordance with the terms of an undertaking given to the court in connection with the reduction and cancellation.
108 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 minority interest The Groups non-controlling interest in 2009 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Nicholas Publishing International 25.0%, S. C. S. Laidlaw et Cie trading as IIR Monaco 20.0%, and Agra CEAS 18.2% in 2008: Nicholas Publishing International 25.0%, S. C. S. Laidlaw et Cie trading as IIR Monaco 20.0%, Euroforum Handelszeitung Konferenz AG 40% and Agra CEAS 18.2%.
28 provisions Contingent Property Restructuring Total Contingent Property Total consideration leases provision 2009 consideration leases 2008 m m m m m m m 1 January 15.4 7.5 22.9 31.9 4.7 36.6 Increase in year 3.0 4.7 29.5 37.2 1.0 3.0 4.0 Reclassification to deferred consideration 10.0 10.0 Utilisation 9.7 2.9 21.9 34.5 7.5 0.2 7.7 Release 1.7 1.7 3.4 At 31 December 7.0 7.6 7.6 22.2 15.4 7.5 22.9 Included in current liabilities 4.3 2.5 7.6 14.4 7.2 2.8 10.0 Included in noncurrent liabilities 2.7 5.1 7.8 8.2 4.7 12.9 The contingent consideration relates primarily to the Datamonitor Limited and Black Book acquisitions.
The contingent consideration for Datamonitor is expected to be paid by 31 December 2010 and for Black Book by 31 December 2011.
As discussed in Note 8, during 2009 the Group implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects.
With the exception of amounts relating to vacant properties see below, the provision is expected to be substantially utilised by 31 December 2010.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 109 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 29 trade and other payables 2009 2008 m m Current Deferred consideration 2.3 15.5 Trade payables 28.5 30.8 Accruals 134.4 167.5 Other payables 36.3 24.3 Total current 201.5 238.1 Non-current Other payables 3.2 3.4 Total non-current 3.2 3.4 204.7 241.5 An analysis of the maturity of debt is given in Note 24 g. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 52 days 2008: 46 days.
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2009 or 2008.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
30 deferred income 2009 2008 m m Subscriptions and event fees received in advance 292.0 309.3 110 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 31 disposal of subsidiary Disposals made in 2009 On 6 July 2009 the Group disposed of its interest in Mark Two Communications B. V. with a loss of 1.0m.
The net assets of Mark Two Communications B. V. at the date of disposal were as follows: m Trade and other receivables 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.1 Deferred income 0.1 Attributable goodwill 1.4 Amount recycled from the translation reserve 0.4 Net assets 1.0 Loss on disposal 1.0 Total consideration Disposals made in 2008 On 1 April 2008 the Group disposed of its interest in Map of Medicine with a profit of 17.8m arising and other smaller interests during the year with a net loss of 1.0m.
The net assets of Map of Medicine at the date of disposal were as follows: m Property and equipment 8.1 Trade and other receivables 1.7 Trade and other payables 0.8 Other intangible assets 7.6 Attributable goodwill 0.1 Net assets 16.7 Profit on disposal 17.8 Total consideration 34.5 Satisfied by: Cash 35.0 Deferred consideration 0.9 Directly attributable costs 1.4 34.5 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 111 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 32 Business combinations Business combinations made in 2009 Heldref Journals On 8 July 2009, the Group acquired the trade and specific assets of The Helen Dwight Reid Educational Foundation, a publisher of journals and magazines devoted to a variety of fields, for cash consideration of 8.5m.
Including deferred consideration, total consideration is not expected to exceed 9.2m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets acquired m m m Other intangible assets 11.2 11.2 Trade and other payables 0.5 0.5 Deferred income 1.5 1.5 Net assets 1.5 10.7 9.2 Total consideration 9.2 Satisfied by: Cash 8.5 Deferred consideration 0.7 9.2 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 8.5 8.5 If the acquisitions had taken place on the first day of the financial year 1 January 2009, they would have contributed 0.6m to profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders and 3.7m to the revenue of the Group.
112 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Other business combinations made in 2009 During 2009, the Group acquired the intellectual property of The Black Book of Outsourcing Black Book, Cards Event, Broadband Worldwide Forum Event and various other publishing titles.
Total cash consideration of 4.7m was paid.
Including deferred and contingent consideration, total consideration is not expected to exceed 9.2m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets acquired m m m Other intangible assets 9.3 9.3 Deferred income 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 Net assets 0.1 8.9 8.8 Goodwill 0.4 Total consideration 9.2 Satisfied by: Cash 4.7 Deferred consideration 1.4 Contingent consideration 3.0 Directly attributable costs 0.1 9.2 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 4.7 4.7 Goodwill of 0.4m represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the intangible assets acquired.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is largely attributable to the anticipated incremental sales synergies associated with being part of the Group.
The values are a best estimate of fair value but these will be reviewed and adjusted in the next year should this be necessary.
If the acquisitions had taken place on the first day of the financial year 1 January 2009, they would have contributed 0.7m to profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders and 3.2m to the revenue of the Group.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 113 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 32 Business combinations continued Cash paid on acquisition net of cash acquired 2009 2008 m m 1 Current year acquisitions 13.2 Prior year acquisitions 2008 acquisitions 0.8 5.7 2007 acquisitions Infoline Conferences Limited 0.6 Forum Pacific Rim Franchises 0.2 HQ Link Pte Limited 0.4 Datamonitor plc 9.6 7.9 Productivity Press 0.3 The Superyacht Cup SA 0.5 0.2 Informanews Iberia, SA 0.7 0.7 Other 0.1 0.4 2006 acquisitions: Citeline, Inc 13.7 Junction Limited 0.1 0.2 2005 acquisitions: Mark Two Communications B. V. 0.1 38.5 16.3 1 These acquisitions are covered by the Current years business combinations table on page 112.
Where goodwill is provisional, a best estimate of fair value has been made but these will be reviewed and adjusted in the next year should it be necessary.
The combined benefit to the Groups profit after tax from the newly acquired businesses amounted to 0.6m on revenues of 2.0m 2008: 3.3m on revenues of 1.3m.
The total net assets of newly acquired businesses amounted to 19.9m as at 31 December 2009 2008: 9.6m.
All acquisitions were paid for in cash including deferred and contingent consideration and in all acquisitions full control over the business has been acquired, either by acquiring 100% of the ordinary issued share capital or by means of an asset purchase transaction.
All transactions have been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
114 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Business combinations made in 2008 In 2008, the Group acquired the trading assets or 100% of the issued share capital of Multilingual Matters Limited, Keegan Paul Limited, INMEX, Binet Exhibitions Pte Limited and various other publishing titles.
Total cash consideration of 6.4m was paid.
Including deferred consideration, total consideration will not exceed 9.6m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets acquired m m m Other intangible assets 8.8 8.8 Property and equipment 1.1 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.7 Deferred income 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax liabilities 2.6 2.6 Net assets 1.3 6.2 7.5 Goodwill 2.1 Total consideration 9.6 Satisfied by: Cash 6.4 Deferred consideration 3.2 9.6 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.7 5.7 The majority of the deferred consideration was paid during 2009.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 115 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 33 notes to the cash flow statement 2009 2008 Notes m m Profit before tax 96.5 109.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 17 9.2 10.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 143.2 129.1 Share-based payment 37 0.6 0.5 Loss profit on disposal of businesses 31 1.0 16.8 Finance costs 10 51.7 77.4 Investment income 11 3.5 5.0 Impairment of available-for-sale investments 0.2 Profit on disposal of property and equipment 0.1 Decrease increase in inventories 0.9 8.4 Decrease increase in receivables 55.8 36.0 Decrease increase in payables 35.9 91.1 Cash generated by operations 319.5 351.8 Analysis of net debt At At 1 January Non-cash Cash Exchange 31 December 2009 items flow movement 2009 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 10.3 5.8 0.4 16.5 Bank loans due in less than one year 116.3 109.8 6.5 Loan notes due in less than one year 1.2 1.2 Bank loans due in more than one year 1,234.6 111.8 392.4 64.9 889.1 1,341.8 2.0 399.4 71.8 872.6 Included within the cash flow movement of 399.4m is 617.7m 2008: 409.8m of repayment of borrowings and 224.1m 2008: 254.3m of loans drawn down.
The net movement caused by non-cash items arises from arrangement fee amortisation of 2.0m 2008: 1.5m.
116 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 34 operating lease arrangements 2009 2008 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 27.4 23.0 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2009 2008 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Operating leases which expire: Within one year 27.3 0.8 25.9 1.2 Within two to five years 69.8 1.0 68.1 1.5 After five years 25.4 28.0 122.5 1.8 122.0 2.7 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of four years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
35 commitments 2009 2008 m m Commitments for the acquisition of other intangible assets 0.4 36 retirement benefit schemes The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, the Informa Final Salary Scheme, the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Achieve Learning UK Pension and Benefits Plan the Group Schemes for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the Group Schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Contributions to the Group Schemes are charged to the Income Statement so as to spread the cost of contributions over employees working lives with the Group.
Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit method.
Charge to operating profit The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions was 8.9m 2008: 8.5m.
The net pension charge for the defined benefit schemes in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year was 2.2m 2008: 1.0m, of which 1.0m 2008: 1.3m was charged to operating profit.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes, and contributions charged to the Consolidated Income Statement during the year were 7.9m 2008: 7.2m.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 117 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 36 retirement benefit schemes continued Defined benefit schemes The latest full actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was carried out at 31 March 2008.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2009 by a qualified independent actuary.
Employees who are members contribute 10% of pensionable pay: the Groups contribution was 16.5% of pensionable pay for the first nine months of the year, and 27.3% of pensionable pay for the rest of the year, plus an additional annual contribution of 0.6m.
The market value of the schemes assets as at 31 December 2009 was 44.2m which represented 83% of the benefits valued on an IAS 19 basis that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the discount rate, rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions.
The assumptions adopted are: 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.8% p. a.
Rate of return on investments 5.5% p. a.
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement 3.4% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment non pensioners 3.7% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment pensioners 3.4% p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries 4.9% p. a.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme was carried out at 30 September 2008.
Employees who are members contribute 3% of pensionable pay: the Groups contribution over the year was 21.3% of pensionable pay plus an additional annual contribution of 1.0m.
The market value of the schemes assets as at 31 December 2009 was 14.2m which represented 88% of the benefits valued on an IAS 19 basis that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The Scheme closed to new entrants on 8 March 2002.
Rate of return on investments 6.1% p. a.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the Achieve Learning UK Pension & Benefits Scheme was carried out at 31 December 2006.
A further valuation was carried out at 31 December 2008 for IAS 19 purposes and was updated to 31 December 2009 by a qualified independent actuary.
The scheme was closed to future accrual of pensions at the time of the acquisition of IIR Holdings Limited in 2005.
The Groups contribution over the year was 60,000.
The market value of the schemes assets as at 31 December 2009 was 5.0m which represented 91% of the benefits valued on an IAS 19 basis that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in inflation.
118 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the discount rate, rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in price inflation and pensions.
Rate of return on investments 6.7% p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit Current service cost 1.0 1.3 Total operating charge 1.0 1.3 Analysis of finance cost income Expected return on pension scheme assets 2.5 4.2 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 3.7 3.9 Net finance cost income 1.2 0.3 Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 6.8 11.2 Experience gain loss 0.5 0.1 Change in actuarial assumptions 8.8 7.6 Limit on recognition of assets in accordance with IAS 19 0.1 Actuarial loss 1.5 3.6 Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of the year 10.3 8.4 Current service cost 1.0 1.3 Contributions 2.7 2.7 Other net finance income 1.2 0.3 Actuarial loss 1.5 3.6 Deficit in Scheme at end of the year 11.3 10.3 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 119 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 36 retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 74.7 63.0 Fair value of Scheme assets 63.4 52.7 Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 11.3 10.3 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 63.0 66.1 Service cost 1.0 1.3 Interest cost 3.7 3.9 Contributions from Scheme members net of benefits paid 1.3 0.8 Actuarial gains and losses 8.3 7.5 Closing defined benefit obligation 74.7 63.0 Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 52.7 57.7 Expected return on Scheme assets 2.5 4.2 Actuarial gains and losses 6.8 11.2 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 2.7 2.8 Contributions from Scheme members net of benefits paid 1.3 0.8 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 63.4 52.7 120 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Ltd and Legal & General.
The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Skandia Investment Management.
The assets of the Achieve Learning UK Pension and Benefits Plan are managed by Schroder Investment Management Ltd.
The fair value of the assets held and the expected rates of return assumed are as follows: Expected rate Expected rate of return year of return year commencing Fair value at commencing Fair value at 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2008 % m % m Equities Achieve Learning 7.75 3.7 7.0 3.1 Taylor & Francis 7.75 7.4 7.0 5.6 Informa 7.75 26.6 7.0 15.4 Bonds Achieve Learning 5.7 0.7 5.4 0.8 Taylor & Francis 5.3 4.1 5.6 3.6 Informa 4.8 5.2 3.8 1.2 Cash Achieve Learning 0.5 0.6 2.0 0.3 Taylor & Francis 0.5 1.8 2.0 1.6 Informa 0.5 11.7 2.0 20.3 Property Achieve Learning 7.75 7.0 Taylor & Francis 7.75 0.9 7.0 0.8 Informa 7.75 0.7 7.0 63.4 52.7 The expected return on assets assumptions are derived by considering the expected long-term rates of return on plan investments.
The overall rate of return is a weighted average rate of return of each asset class.
The long-term rates of return on equities and property are derived from considering current long-term fixed interest government bond rates with the addition of an appropriate future risk premium.
The long-term rates of return on bonds and cash investments are set in line with market yields currently available.
The Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 121 Financial statements notes to the consoLIdAted FInAncIAL stAtements For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued 36 retirement benefit schemes continued The history of the Group Schemes for the current and prior years is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 74.7 63.0 66.1 65.6 66.7 Fair value of Scheme assets 63.4 52.7 57.7 54.4 49.0 Deficit in the Scheme and liability recognised in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 11.3 10.3 8.4 11.2 17.7 Related deferred tax assets 3.1 2.8 2.4 3.4 5.3 Deficit net of deferred tax assets 8.2 7.5 6.0 7.8 12.4 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.3 Percentage of Scheme liabilities % 0.7 0.2 0.7 1.0 0.4 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets: Amount m 6.8 11.2 1.9 1.7 6.5 Percentage of Scheme assets % 10.7 21.2 3.0 3.0 13.3 Following the completion of the triennial valuations of the main defined benefit schemes, a revised deficit funding plan has been agreed with the trustees to eliminate the deficits in the three schemes.
The contributions for the ongoing service cost is estimated to increase from 1.0m in 2009 to 1.4m in 2010.
In addition, the contributions paid towards reducing the scheme deficits will increase from 1.7m in 2009 to 2.4m in 2010 and 3.5m in 2011 when the next triennial valuation will be available.
37 share-based payments The Group share options and Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs provide for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of the Groups shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is generally 3 years.
The options expire if they remain unexercised after the exercise period has lapsed.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
The Group recognised total expenses of 0.6m 2008: 0.5m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 December 2009.
Share options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price p Options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,245,150 452.81 3,377,811 390.61 Adjustment for rights issue 251,555 311.31 Forfeited lapsed during the year 454,788 422.36 361,699 512.17 Exercised during the year 106,486 209.75 770,962 155.86 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,935,431 392.71 2,245,150 452.81 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,935,431 2,245,150 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 209.75p 2008: 155.86p.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.88 years 2008: 1.74 years and exercise prices ranging from 191.09p to 619.68p Note 25.
122 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Inputs used to calculate those fair values and the method of calculation are set out in the following tables: Estimated Share Exercise Expected Expected Risk Dividend Date of grant fair value price price volatility life years free rate yield 1 4 March 2004 1.18 3.76 3.73 32.33% 5.00 4.76% 2.00% 22 March 2004 10 May 2004 1.08 3.49 3.41 32.77% 4.87 4.62% 2.00% 1 Executive adjusted 22 March 2004 10 May 2004 0.93 3.49 3.41 32.77% 3.50 4.21% 2.00% 1 Employee adjusted 1 15 September 2004 1.16 3.71 3.70 30.59% 5.00 4.95% 2.00% 1 Valued using the Binomial model of valuation.
Adjusted for the business combination in 2004 of Taylor & Francis Group plc and Informa Group plc, and in 2005 for a rights issue.
2 From 1 January of year in which grant made.
3 50% split of total awards granted.
In order to satisfy the share awards granted under Long-Term Incentive Plans, the share capital would be increased by up to 4,215,684 shares.
The company is planning to issue additional share capital to satisfy the awards although if circumstances change it may instead buy the shares as needed on the open market.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
On 4 August 2009 the number of shares granted for the Long-Term Incentive Plan scheme was 1,965,440 with no exercise cost.
During the year, the 2006 LTIPs vested.
A complete listing of all options outstanding as at 31 December 2009 is included in Note 25.
38 events after the reporting date There have been no significant events since the reporting date.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 123
