company Information shArehoLder InFormAtIon Once you have read the terms and conditions click registrars the Go button to send the Access Number to your Informas Registrar is Equiniti.
The Shareholder Helpline registered address.
run by Equiniti is available between Monday and Friday, Your new Access Number will arrive by post a few 8.30 am to 5.00 pm.
The UK number to call is 0870 384 days later.
You will then have all you need to log into 2381, if you are calling from outside the UK please call: your new Portfolio.
This helpline deals with various share related queries.
global payments service They also offer a free online service which enables you to: This service provided by Informas Registrar enables shareholders to have dividend payments paid directly view and manage all of your shareholdings: into their bank account in their chosen local currency.
register for electronic communications: To view terms and register for this service, please visit www.
buy and sell shares instantly online with the dealing service: and dividend other shareholder services such as change of Informa pays a dividend to all shareholders twice each address, transfer shares or replace a lost certificate.
Informa operates a Dividend Access Plan for all its shareholders.
Those shareholders who hold fewer Visit www.
co. uk myportfolio for further than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent to receive information.
You will need your shareholder reference their dividends from a UK Informa company.
However number as shown on your share certificate.
those shareholders holding over 100,000 shares need to elect to join the Dividend Access Plan by completing If you currently hold a Shareview Portfolio account which an Election Form.
This form is available from Informas was registered prior to the Register moving to Jersey in Registrars by calling 0871 384 2381.
If you are calling June 2009 you will need to re-register under the new from outside the UK please call: 44 121 415 7047.
You can register quickly and easily by going hold over 100,000 shares and do not elect to join the to www.
co. uk myportfolio and clicking on the Dividend Access Plan, you will receive your dividends Open a FREE portfolio button in the middle of the home from Informas Swiss holding company.
Youll be asked for the following information: Alternatively, shareholders can elect to receive shares the company in which you hold shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through or loan notes managed by Equiniti: the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP your last name as it appears on a recent Shareholders can also arrange for dividends to be paid share certificate or tax voucher: by mandate directly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated shareholder reference: Clearing Services system.
For the benefit of shareholders your postcode: resident in any of the eurozone countries, the Company offers the option to receive dividends in Euros.
your current email address: and share dealing you will also be asked for your preferred method of communication i. e. electronic or hard If shareholders wish to buy or sell any Informa shares, copy please choose the hard copy option.
they can do so by calling the Companys Brokers, Natwest Stockbrokers, on 0808 208 4433.
Instructions on how You will then be asked to create a password.
This needs to deal will be provided over the phone.
The helpline to be a mixture of 4-8 alphanumeric characters that you is open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm UK time, Monday to Friday, alone will be able to remember e. g. pa55w0rd.
134 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: crest electronic proxy voting make sure you get the correct name The Company will be accepting proxy votes through the of the person and organisation: CREST Electronic Proxy Voting system.
check that they are properly authorised sharegift by the FSA before getting involved.
You ShareGift Registered Charity no.
uk register: independent charity which specialises in accepting report the matter to the FSA either donations of small numbers of shares which are by calling 0845 606 1234: and uneconomic to sell on their own.
ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the inform our Registrars on 0871 384 2381 ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 11m has been given by ShareGift so far tips on protecting your shareholding to over 1,400 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on their website, Ensure all your certificates are kept www.
org or by contacting 020 7930 3737. in a safe place or hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
electronic shareholder communication Keep all correspondence from the Registrars in a safe As part of Informas Corporate Social Responsibility place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it.
programme and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our environmental impact, we offer all If you change address inform the Registrars.
shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for If you receive a letter from the Registrars electronic communications.
For further information regarding a change of address and you have not please visit www.
com recently moved, contact them immediately.
protecting your Investment from Know when the dividends are paid and consider share register Fraud having your dividend paid directly into your bank contact the Registrars.
If you change Informa plc is legally obliged to make its share register your bank account, inform the Registrars of the available to the general public.
Consequently some details of your new account.
Respond to any shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including letters the Registrars send to you about this.
correspondence from unauthorised investment companies.
If you are buying or selling shares, only Over the last year a number of companies have become deal with brokers registered in the UK aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited or in your country of residence.
phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persuasive and very persistent.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 135
