NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Inmarsat plc the Company or together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in Great Britain and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered of ce is 99 City Road, London, EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
The Companys ticker symbol on the London Stock Exchange is ISAT LSE: ISAT.
Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
The text below describes how, in preparing the financial statements, the Directors have applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the assumptions and estimates they have made in applying the standards and interpretations and the policies adopted in the 2009 financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities, as described later in these accounting policies.
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow generation and is compliant with all covenants.
As a consequence and despite the continuing uncertain economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cers Business Review and the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 4 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 14 to 25.
In addition, note 3 and 29 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Basis of accounting The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are signi cant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
Accounting policies adopted in preparing these consolidated financial statements have been selected in accordance with IFRS.
In the current year the Group adopted amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
The amendments require the presentation of an entitys transactions with owners in a separate primary statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Previously the Group had the choice of whether to present transactions with owners in a primary statement or in the notes to the accounts.
In addition, the amendments require the presentation of a Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Previously the Group presented a Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, which is now no longer required.
In the current year the Group adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 is a disclosure standard that has resulted in a re-designation of the Groups reportable segments see note 5.
In the current year the Group applied the principles of IFRS 3 as revised, Business Combinations, in respect of the expensing of acquisition costs in relation to the Segovia Inc. Segovia transaction which completed on 12 January 2010 see note 33.
The Standard is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
For Inmarsat this applies to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010 and is therefore applicable to the Segovia transaction.
Whilst IFRS 3 as revised has not been adopted for transactions completed prior to 31 December 2009, management are of the opinion that the early adoption of IFRS 3 as revised in the current year, in relation to the Segovia transaction, is appropriate.
As a consequence, in the year ended 31 December 2009, we recognised US$3.9m of transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Segovia as an expense in the Income Statement.
In the prior year, the Group adopted IFRIC 14, IAS19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on the implications of pension scheme minimum funding requirements and the criteria under which reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available.
Adoption of IFRIC 14 has no impact on these consolidated financial statements.
60 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On 1 January 2008, the Group adopted IAS 23 as revised, Borrowing Costs, in advance of its effective date, which is for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The impact of the adoption of IAS 23 as revised is the compulsory capitalisation of interest and finance costs associated with assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use.
As a result, during 2009 US$4.4m of interest was capitalised 2008: US$0.9m see note 9.
In addition, the following standards and interpretations, as adopted by the EU, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group with no signi cant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRS 1 as amended IAS 27 as amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 2 as amended Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 7 as amended Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 32 as amended IAS 1 as amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investments in a Foreign Operation effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers effective for transfers received on or after 1 July 2009.
Amendments resulting from the May 2008 Annual Improvements to IFRSs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 2 as amended Share-based Payment Amendments relating to group cash-settled share-based payments transactions effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classi cation and Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 24 as revised Related Party Disclosures Revised fide nition of related parties effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IAS 27 as amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 32 as amended Amendments relating to classi cation of rights issues effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
IAS 39 as amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 14 as amended IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
Amendments resulting from the April 2009 Annual Improvements to IFRSs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiary undertakings.
All intercompany transactions and balances with subsidiary undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
Subsidiary undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the period are included in the consolidated pro t and loss account from the date of establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values re ecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identi able separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Inmarsat plc 61 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the identi able separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
For transactions completed on or before 31 December 2009 fees and similar incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition are included in the cost of the acquisition and capitalised.
Internal costs, and other expenses that cannot be directly attributed to the acquisition, are charged to the Income Statement.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identi ed separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the original combination.
Consolidation of Stratos Global Corporation As in the previous year, the consolidated results for the Group include the financial results of Stratos Global Corporation Stratos.
Although we completed the acquisition of CIP UK Holdings Limited CIP UK and therefore indirectly Stratos on 15 April 2009 Stratos acquisition, we have been consolidating the results of CIP UK and its subsidiaries together CIP since 11 December 2007, the date on which we acquired an option over the entire share capital of CIP UK.
We accounted for the combination using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The final fair value allocation of assets and liabilities was completed for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Where we refer to Inmarsat Global we include Inmarsat plc and all of its subsidiaries excluding Stratos.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and the presentation currency of the Group is the US dollar, as the majority of operational transactions are denominated in US dollars.
The exchange rate between US dollars and Pounds Sterling as at 31 December 2009 was US$1.61 1.00 2008: US$1.44 1.00.
The average rate between US dollar and Pounds Sterling for 2009 was US$1.56 1.00 2008: US$1.86 1.00.
The hedged rate between US dollar and Pounds Sterling for 2009 for Inmarsat Global was US$1.92 1.00 2008: US$2.01 1.00. b Transactions and balances Transactions not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year have been translated using the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising on the settlement of the transactions denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in the Income Statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertaking of the Group have been translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in equity to the extent that the foreign exchange exposure is hedged while the remaining differences are recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial instruments and hedging activities Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument.
Non-derivative financial assets are classi ed as accounts receivable, short-term deposits or cash and cash equivalents.
They are stated at amortised cost using the effective-interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and bank time deposits, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
In the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are all classi ed as other liabilities and stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the Income Statement except where the derivative is a designated cash ow hedging instrument.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
62 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Gains or losses on cash ow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Where the forecast transaction results in a financial asset or liability, gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassi ed to the Income Statement in the same period as the asset or liability impacts income.
If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure.
The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the Income Statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
However, where the Group has applied cash ow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, then the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
Revenue recognition Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue over the period in which the services are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Mobile satellite communications services lease revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and twelve months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
The Groups revenues are stated net of volume discounts.
The seasonality of volume discounts has been removed following the implementation the new distribution agreements on 15 April 2009.
Historically, volume discounts increased over the course of the financial year as speci c revenue thresholds were achieved by distribution partners resulting in lower prices.
Revenue also includes income from services contracts, rental income, conference facilities and income from the sale of terminals and other communication equipment.
Revenue from service contracts, rental income and conference facilities is recognised as the service is provided.
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised against revenue when there is objective evidence that trade receivables are impaired.
Larger accounts are speci cally reviewed to assess a customers ability to make payments.
Employee bene ts Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary bene ts are accrued in the year in which the associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Termination bene ts are payable whenever an employees employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these bene ts.
The Group recognises termination bene ts when it has demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination bene ts, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to fide ned bene t pension plans and post-retirement healthcare bene ts in respect of employees in the UK and overseas.
The Groups net obligations in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans and post-retirement healthcare bene ts are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future bene t that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that bene t is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The Group operates a number of fide ned contribution pension schemes in its principal locations.
Pension costs for the fide ned contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Inmarsat plc 63 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Research and development Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development costs are only capitalised once a business case has been demonstrated as to the technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
Property, plant and equipment Space segment assets Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other associated costs.
Expenditure charged to space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestone payments, external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included within liabilities.
These space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into service.
As of 1 January 2008, on adoption of IAS 23 as revised, Borrowing Costs, borrowing costs attributable to the construction of assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets.
Prior to 1 January 2008 borrowing costs for the construction of assets were not capitalised.
Assets in course of construction Assets in course of construction relate to the Alphasat satellite, the S-Band project, GSPS services and BGAN services.
These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over the life of the satellites once they become operational and placed into service.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets.
Other xed assets Other xed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the historical cost less residual values, if any, of xed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
The lives assigned to signi cant tangible xed assets are: Space segment 515 years Fixtures and ttings, and services-related equipment 515 years Buildings 20 years Other xed assets 35 years 64 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Asset retirement obligations The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost re ected in operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash ows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation and the related property, plant and equipment.
Government grants Government grants have been received in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
Government grants are deducted from the cost of the relevant assets to arrive at carrying amount.
The grants are therefore recognised as income over the lives of the assets by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Gains and losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing net proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal development costs, spectrum rights, customer relationships and intellectual property.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for intangible assets with a nite useful life are reviewed each financial year.
a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on the acquisition over the fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Patents and trademarks Patents and trademarks are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which are 7 years and between 10 and 20 years, respectively.
c Software development costs Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are capitalised as intangible assets.
Costs are capitalised once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Such costs are amortised over the estimated sales life of the services.
d Terminal development costs The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development of user terminals.
For BGAN services terminal development costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which is between 5 and 10 years.
e Spectrum rights Spectrum rights are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the ACeS collaboration in September 2006 are amortised over a remaining useful life of 5.3 years.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the Stratos acquisition are amortised over their useful lives of 3 to 10 years.
f Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired in connection with the Stratos acquisition are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and are being amortised over the expected period of bene t of 12 years using the straight-line method.
g Intellectual property Intellectual property is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and is now fully amortised.
Impairment of nonfinancial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the xed asset or goodwill with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
Inmarsat plc 65 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The carrying amount will only be increased where an impairment loss recognised in a previous period for an asset other than goodwill either no longer exists or has decreased, up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Any impairment to goodwill recognised in a previous period is not reversed.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are identi ed as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash ows that are largely independent of other cash ow streams.
The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the cash ows and an appropriate proportion of corporate assets.
For the purposes of impairment review space segment assets are treated as one CGU.
Investments Investments in equity instruments that do not have quoted market prices in active markets are recorded at cost.
Investments are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Leases Leases where a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest and finance costs Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings are capitalised as part of the carrying amount of the borrowings and amortised over the life of the debt.
The accretion of the discount on the principal on the Senior Discount Notes and Convertible Bonds is accounted for as an interest expense.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by the average cost method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings as current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Provisions Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts, are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic bene ts arising from past events and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are not recognised unless the out ow of economic bene ts to settle the obligation is more likely than not to occur.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of transaction and arrangement costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings and the difference between the proceeds and the redemption value are recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classi ed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the Balance Sheet date.
Convertible Bonds Convertible bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder are considered and accounted for as compound financial instruments, consisting of a separate liability component and an equity component in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt instrument.
The embedded call and put options, since they are closely linked to the underlying instrument, are valued and recognised as part of the liability.
The total liability is recognised as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bond.
The equity component initially brought to account is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole and represents the option for the holder to convert the bond into equity of the company.
This conversion option is recognised and included directly in equity and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts at the date of issue.
66 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On conversion, the liability is reclassi ed to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the pro t or loss.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element is recognised in the pro t or loss.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is a non GAAP performance measure used by analysts and investors, and is fide ned as pro t before income tax, net interest payable, depreciation and amortisation and share of results of associates.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations and signi cant debt nancing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of uctuating interest rates on its oating rate long-term debt.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a sub-committee, the Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the risk management policies applied by the Group.
The policies are implemented by the treasury department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to enable prompt identi cation of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out speci c guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk see note 29.
The management of the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is US dollars.
The Group generates the majority of its revenue in US dollars.
The vast majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US dollars.
Approximately 60% of Inmarsat Globals operating costs are denominated in Sterling.
Stratos operate internationally, resulting in approximately 10% to 15% of revenue and expenditure being denominated in currencies other than in US dollar.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future cash ows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in US dollars, as disclosed in note 19, which is therefore not subject to risks associated with uctuating foreign currency rates of exchange.
The foreign currency hedging policy of the Group is to economically hedge a minimum of 50% of anticipated foreign currency exposure in operating expenses for the next 12 months and up to a maximum of 100% for the next three years on a rolling basis.
As at 31 December 2009 it is estimated that: A hypothetical 1% in ation of the hedged US dollar Sterling exchange rate US$1.92 1.00 to US$1.94 1.00 would have decreased the 2009 pro t before tax by approximately US$1.3m 2008: US$1.3m.
A hypothetical 1% in ation of the US dollar Sterling foreign currency spot rate at 31 December 2009, would have reduced the 2009 pro t before tax by approximately US$0.2m 2008: reduced by US$0.1m, primarily as a result of the translation of Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
This analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts the translation of these items at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates.
A hypothetical 1% in ation in the US dollar Sterling and a 1% fide ation in the US dollar Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2009, would have impacted equity by US$1.2m and US$1.6m, respectively 2008: US$1.3m and US$1.6m, respectively primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash ow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
ii Price risk The Group is not exposed to signi cant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
b Interest rate risk Given the Group has no signi cant interest-bearing assets, income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
The policy of the Group is to ensure certainty of the interest charge by xing interest rates on 60 100% of forecast net debt for the next two years on a rolling basis.
The Senior Notes due 2017, the Convertible Bonds and the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes are at xed rates.
Inmarsat plc 67 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The Group manages its cash ow interest rate risk by using oating-toxed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from oating rates to xed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at speci c intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between xed contract rates and oating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
As at 31 December 2009, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Groups pro t after tax for the year would have been impacted by US$0.2m 2008: US$3.0m.
This is primarily due to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For oating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at each balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in interest rates.
c Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, shortterm deposits, trade receivables and derivative financial instruments.
The credit risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly rated financial institutions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is: US$ in millions Note 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 16 226.8 156.4 Trade receivables 17 166.8 175.8 Derivative financial instruments 29 24.1 9.7 Total credit risk 417.7 341.9 The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2009 was approximately 59 days as at 31 December 2008: 64 days.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third party collections processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group had provided US$12.9m for uncollectability of trade receivables and revenue adjustments 2008: US$13.9m.
For 2009, one 2008: one distribution partner comprised approximately 23.5% 2008: 23.1% of the Groups total revenues.
This same customer comprised 37.8% 2008: 40.3% of the Groups trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2009.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue and accounts receivable at 31 December 2009.
The following table sets out the Groups trade receivable balance by maturity: US$ in millions Note 2009 2008 Current 129.7 150.8 Between 1 and 30 days overdue 32.1 16.4 Between 31 and 120 days overdue 4.2 7.1 Over 120 days overdue 0.8 1.5 Total trade receivables 17 166.8 175.8 d Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining suf cient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity pro les of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group maintains a long-term Revolving Credit Facility of US$300.0m that is designed to ensure it has suf cient available funds for operations.
Drawings on this facility were US$90.0m as at 31 December 2009 2008: US$140.0m under the Previous Senior Credit facility.
In addition, a Revolving Operating Facility of US$10.0m is also available to Stratos to ensure it has suf cient funds available for operations.
This facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
68 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The more signi cant estimates are discussed below: a Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group annually undertakes tests to determine whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are given in note 14.
For the purpose of testing for impairment, goodwill is speci cally allocated to CGUs.
Four CGUs have been identi ed, being Inmarsat MSS, Stratos MSS, Stratos Broadband and Other.
It has been determined that goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Inmarsat Ventures Limited represented goodwill of the Inmarsat MSS CGU only.
Goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Stratos has been allocated to the Stratos MSS and Stratos Broadband CGUs.
Therefore, goodwill has been tested for impairment on the Inmarsat MSS, Stratos MSS and Stratos Broadband CGUs only.
As at 31 December 2009, the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat MSS, Stratos MSS and Broadband CGUs was US$406.2m, US$241.4m and US$21.1m, respectively as at 31 December 2008: US$406.2m, US$241.5m and US$29.8m, respectively.
Goodwill is tested by comparing the carrying amount of the CGU with its value in use.
The value in use calculation utilises an estimate of the future cash ows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
The key assumptions used in calculating the value in use are as follows: discount rate the pre-tax rate used to discount the operating pro t projections in respect of the Group in 2009 was 10.5% 2008: 10.5% and: operating pro t projections are derived from recently approved five-year forecasts and have assumed terminal growth rates for the Group for 2009 of 2.5-3.0% 2008: 3.0%.
Using the value in use as a measure, no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was recognised.
In the opinion of the Directors, there have been no changes in the business strategy that would result in the carrying value of goodwill exceeding its recoverable amount.
For the Stratos MSS CGU the discount rate would need to increase to 11.37%, before the carrying value would exceed the value in use and result in an impairment charge being recognised in the Income Statement.
b Pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare bene ts assumptions Inmarsat Global has applied a rate of return on assets of 7.77% p. a.
2008: 7.77% p. a. which represents the expected return on asset holdings in the future.
The discount rate used to calculate the pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities was 5.50% 2008: 6.10% see note 27. c Income tax The Groups income tax balance is the sum of the total current and deferred tax balances.
The calculation of this, and of the Groups potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash ows.
Segmental information The Group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Executive Management Board to allocate resources and assess performance.
In the Condensed Consolidated Interim Financial Results for the half year ended 30 June 2009, management identi ed three main segments, namely Inmarsat MSS, Stratos MSS and Broadband.
Since the completion of the Stratos acquisition in April 2009 and the release of the interim results, the Executive Management have re ned the way in which they manage the Group.
Information reported to the Executive Management for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is more speci cally focused on the individual performance of each of the divisions within the Group, namely Inmarsat Global and Stratos.
The Groups reportable segments are therefore as follows: Inmarsat Global MSS the supply of internally generated airtime, equipment and services to distribution partners and end-users of mobile satellite communications by the Inmarsat business.
Stratos the supply of advanced mobile and xed-site remote telecommunications services, the provision of customised turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added services, equipment and engineering services to end-users.
Other principally comprises income from technical support to other operators, the provision of conference facilities and leasing surplus of ce space to external organisations.
Other also includes Group borrowings and the related interest expense.
Inmarsat plc 69 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment pro t represents the pro t earned by each segment without allocation of investment revenue, finance costs, income tax expense and in certain segments, corporate costs.
Comparative amounts for 2008 have been re-presented.
Primary reporting format business segments 2009 US$ in millions Inmarsat MSS Stratos Other Eliminations Total a Revenue External sales 389.1 639.1 9.9 1,038.1 Inter-segment 295.8 5.0 300.8 b Total revenue 684.9 644.1 9.9 300.8 1,038.1 Segment result operating pro t 314.2 43.0 1.4 1.8 356.8 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 159.9 159.9 Pro t before income tax 196.9 Income tax expense 44.1 Pro t for the year 152.8 Segment assets 1,974.0 777.5 226.8 72.7 2,905.6 Segment liabilities 265.8 128.7 1,615.7 74.6 1,935.6 c Capital expenditure 142.2 24.0 0.4 165.8 d Investment in subsidiary 23.5 23.5 Depreciation 160.2 23.7 183.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 19.7 28.0 47.7 a Revenue from the sale of user terminals is classi ed as either Inmarsat MSS or Stratos revenue for the purpose of segment reporting, depending on the nature of the terminal.
b Stratos MSS services accounted for US$553.0m and Stratos Broadband services US$91.1m of total revenue generated from the Stratos segment.
c Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
d Relates to 19% stake in SkyWave Mobile Communications acquired in the year see note 15.
2008 re-presented US$ in millions Inmarsat MSS Stratos Other Eliminations Total a Revenue External sales 354.8 631.7 10.2 996.7 Inter-segment 269.7 6.3 276.0 b Total revenue 624.5 638.0 10.2 276.0 996.7 Segment result operating pro t 262.2 51.3 2.4 1.3 317.2 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 123.4 123.4 Pro t before income tax 193.8 Income tax credit 161.6 Pro t for the year 355.4 Segment assets 2,033.8 813.6 156.5 97.1 2,906.8 Segment liabilities 236.8 167.4 1,654.9 86.0 1,973.1 c Capital expenditure 203.8 24.4 0.5 227.7 Depreciation 144.5 22.3 166.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 22.5 25.4 47.9 a Revenue from the sale of user terminals is classi ed as either Inmarsat MSS or Stratos revenue for the purpose of segment reporting, depending on the nature of the terminal.
b Stratos MSS services accounted for US$532.8m and Stratos Broadband services US$105.2m of total revenue generated from the Stratos segment.
70 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Group mainly operates in the geographic areas as included in the table below.
The home country of the Group is the United Kingdom with its head of ce and central operations located in London.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For Inmarsat Global this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service and for Stratos this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2009 2008 Non-current Non-current Segment Segment b b US$ in millions Revenue Assets Revenue Assets Europe 515.9 1,368.2 430.4 1,330.4 North America 259.4 175.4 297.2 179.2 Asia and Paci c 202.4 32.0 201.2 33.7 Rest of the world 60.4 67.9 a Unallocated 842.1 926.3 1,038.1 2,417.7 996.7 2,469.6 a Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
b In line with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current segment assets exclude derivative financial instruments.
Pro t before income tax Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operations costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A further breakdown of employee bene t costs is given in note 7 below.
Pro t before income tax is stated after charging the following items: US$ in millions Note 2009 2008 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 13 183.9 166.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 47.7 47.9 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 17.5 17.5 Services equipment, xtures and ttings 0.2 0.5 Space segment 18.9 20.4 The analysis of the Auditors remuneration is as follows: US$ in millions 2009 2008 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.0 0.4 Total audit fees 1.2 0.6 Other services, pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.2 Tax services 1.6 0.3 Services relating to recruitment and remuneration 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.5 0.3 Total non-audit services 2.3 0.8 a In addition, total audit fees payable to other auditors in respect of the audit of the consolidated financial statements was US$9,944 2008: US$12,273.
b In addition to the fees disclosed above, Inmarsat Globals pension plan incurred audit fees from our auditors of US$27,106 2008: US$27,140 for the 2009 financial year c As of 31 July 2009 Stratos changed their auditors to Deloitte.
In 2009 Stratos incurred audit fees from other auditors of US$35,202, relating to the quarterly reviews in the first half of 2009.
In 2008, Stratos incurred fees from other auditors for quarterly reviews and the audit of the annual accounts and subsidiaries of US$1,020,418.
d At 31 December 2009 Inmarsat Global had contractually committed to $0.3m of tax services to be completed in the 2010 financial year.
Inmarsat plc 71 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 7.
Employee bene t costs including the Executive Directors US$ in millions Note 2009 2008 Wages and salaries 158.0 158.1 Social security costs 12.5 15.0 Share options charge including employers national insurance contribution 25 10.8 9.4 fide ned contribution pension plan costs 6.7 5.7 a fide ned bene t pension plan costs 27 1.2 1.8 a Post-retirement healthcare plan costs 27 0.8 0.8 Total employee bene t costs 190.0 190.8 a fide ned bene t pension plan costs and post-retirement healthcare plan costs for 2009 and 2008 re ect the service cost see note 27.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of people including the Executive Directors employed during the year by category of employment: 2009 2008 Inmarsat Inmarsat Global Stratos Group Global Stratos Group Operations 181 341 522 175 341 516 Sales and marketing 87 132 219 79 150 229 Development and engineering 79 49 128 87 62 149 Administration 137 238 375 127 212 339 484 760 1,244 468 765 1,233 8.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors remuneration US$ thousands 2009 2008 Aggregate emoluments 4,754 4,700 Company contributions to fide ned contribution pension schemes 157 165 4,911 4,865 The Directors Remuneration Report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on 50.
One Director 2008: two is accruing bene ts under the Groups fide ned contribution pension plan.
One Director is a member of the US 401k Plan 2008: one.
Key management The Executive Directors and the Executive Staff comprising the Chief Executive Of cer and his direct reports are the key management of the business.
Net interest payable US$ in millions 2009 2008 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 25.2 28.3 Interest on Senior Discount Notes 44.1 44.0 Interest on Convertible Bond 23.7 22.1 Interest on Stratos borrowings 18.8 31.6 Pension and post-retirement liability finance costs 4.2 Interest rate swaps 11.2 4.8 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 3.0 2.8 a Amortisation of debt issue costs 14.8 4.5 Redemption premium on Senior Notes and Senior Discount Notes 19.7 Other interest 1.3 1.0 Interest payable and similar charges 166.0 139.1 b Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 4.4 0.9 Total interest payable and similar charges 161.6 138.2 c Bank interest receivable and other interest 1.6 3.1 Net discount on purchase of Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 0.1 2.4 Pension and post-retirement liability finance gains 9.3 Total interest receivable and similar income 1.7 14.8 Net interest payable 159.9 123.4 a Includes US$9.6m of unamortised debt issue costs which were written off in relation to the cancellation of the Previous Senior Credit Facility and redemption of the Senior Notes due 2012 and Senior Discount Notes, during 2009 see note 19. b Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditure on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 8.63%.
c Includes US$0.5m of unamortised premium which was recorded on the redemption of the Senior Notes due 2012 see note 19.
72 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
Income tax Income tax expense credit recognised in the Income Statement: US$ in millions 2009 2008 Current tax expense: Current year 30.4 9.4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods a Recognition of finance lease and operating leaseback 6.8 Reduction of Jersey Corporation Tax rate to 0% 0.4 Other 0.5 2.5 Total current tax expense 30.9 4.7 Deferred tax expense credit: Origination and reversal of temporary differences a Recognition of finance lease and operating leaseback 211.8 b Other temporary differences 14.7 47.4 Adjustment due to difference in foreign exchange rate 2.7 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1.5 0.8 Total deferred tax expense credit 13.2 166.3 Total income tax expense credit 44.1 161.6 a The current tax and deferred tax credits in 2008 relate to a finance lease and operating leaseback transaction that was entered into in 2007.
We recorded the tax bene t as we consider it likely that we will receive the bene t. b Includes a tax credit in 2009 of US$8.8m arising from the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to unutilised capital allowances in Stratos UK entities.
These unutilised allowances were not recognised as separate identi able assets as part of the accounting for the purchase of Stratos.
We believe that the Group will be able to utilise these capital allowances in offsetting future taxable pro ts of the Groups UK entities.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate: US$ in millions 2009 2008 Pro t before tax 196.9 193.8 Income tax at 28% 2008: 28.5% 55.1 55.2 Differences in overseas tax rates 0.9 4.8 Adjustments in respect of prior periods Recognition of finance lease and operating leaseback 6.8 Reduction of Jersey Corporation Tax rate to 0% 0.4 Other 0.9 3.4 Effect of the reduction in the Corporation Tax rate from 30% to 28% on: current year movement in deferred tax 1.0 Impact of finance lease and operating leaseback on deferred tax 211.8 Bene t of current year non-capital losses not recognised 2.3 1.3 a Other non-deductible expenses non taxable income 6.9 6.3 Total income tax expense credit 44.1 161.6 a Includes the tax credit discussed in note b above.
Tax charged credited to equity: US$ in millions 2009 2008 Current tax credit on share options 0.2 1.7 Deferred tax credit charge on share options 1.6 0.4 Deferred tax charge credit relating to gains on cash ow hedges 12.5 9.9 Deferred tax credit on actuarial gains and losses from pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts 5.3 2.2 Total tax charged credited to equity 5.4 13.4 11.
Net foreign exchange gains US$ in millions 2009 2008 Pension and post-retirement liability note 27 2.8 10.2 Other operating costs 8.6 0.1 Total foreign exchange gains 5.8 10.3 Inmarsat plc 73 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 12.
Dividends The dividends paid in 2009 were US$58.4m 12.73 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$83.4m 18.20 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2009 interim dividend and the 2008 final dividend, respectively.
Dividends paid in 2008 were US$55.5m 12.13 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$79.1m 17.33 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2008 interim dividend and the 2007 final dividend, respectively.
A second interim dividend for the 2009 financial year of 20.63 cents US$ per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of US$94.8m, will be paid in lieu of a final dividend.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 1 April 2010 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 19 March 2010.
In accordance with IAS 37, these financial statements do not re ect this final dividend payable.
US$ in cents 2009 2008 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 12.73 12.13 Second interim dividend per ordinary share 20.63 18.20 Total dividend per ordinary share 33.36 30.33 13.
The space segment asset lives range from 10 to 15 years with the exception of R-BGAN assets which were five years.
The first, second and third of the Inmarsat-4 satellites were placed in service during the 2005, 2006 and 2009 financial years respectively and are being depreciated over 15 years.
As at 31 December 2008 the costs associated with the Inmarsat-4 F3 satellite remained in assets under construction.
No depreciation was recognised in 2008 in respect of the Inmarsat-4 F3 satellite.
The R-BGAN service was terminated on 31 December 2008, therefore all associated assets had been fully depreciated by the end of 2008.
At 31 December 2009 and 2008, freehold land and buildings for Inmarsat Global were carried at cost less accumulated depreciation US$nil.
Had the freehold land and buildings been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2009 would have been US$4.8m based on the 31 December 2009 exchange rate between the US dollar and Pounds Sterling of US$1.61 1.00 2008: US$5.9m.
The Directors determined the market valuation.
74 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
b During 2009, we recorded a US$8.8m adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill following the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to unutilised capital allowances arising in Stratos UK entities.
Although these unutilised capital allowances were acquired as part of the acquisition of Stratos, in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004, they were not recognised as an identi able asset in determining goodwill that resulted from that acquisition.
We now believe that the Group will be able to utilise these capital allowances in offsetting future taxable pro ts of the Groups UK entities and have therefore accounted for the bene t as an adjustment to goodwill in line with IAS 12, Income Taxes.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses see note 4 a.
Trademarks and patents are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of trademarks are between 10 and 20 years.
The estimated useful life of patents is 7 years.
The software capitalised relates to the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 5 to 7 years.
Internally developed technology acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 5 years.
All other software is amortised on a straight-line basis, over 3 to 5 years.
User terminal development costs directly relating to the development of the user terminals for the BGAN services are capitalised as intangible xed assets.
The R-BGAN service was terminated on 31 December 2008, therefore all R-BGAN user terminal costs had been fully depreciated by 31 December 2008.
R-BGAN costs were being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which was 5 years.
BGAN costs are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is 5 to 10 years.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with Stratos are being amortised over the expected period of bene t of 12 years using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights relate to the acquisition of ACeS and Stratos.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the ACeS collaboration are being amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of 5.3 years.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos are being amortised over their useful lives of 3 to 10 years.
Intellectual property relates to the acquisition of ACeS and is now fully amortised.
Inmarsat plc 75 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 15.
Investments As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Investments held at cost: SkyWave 23.5 Total investments held at cost 23.5 Interest in associates: Navarino 6.8 6.5 JSAT Mobile 0.7 0.1 Total interest in associates 7.5 6.4 Total investments 31.0 6.4 In July 2009, we acquired a stake of approximately 19% in the privately held SkyWave Mobile Communications SkyWave for an initial cash consideration of US$10.0m and deferred consideration of US$11.5m consisting of deferred airtime credits.
The ownership in SkyWave has been recorded at cost, including capitalised transaction costs.
The Group, through Stratos, owns a 49% ownership interest in Navarino Telecom SA and NTS Maritime Limited together, Navarino.
Cash dividends received for the year ended 31 December 2009 totalled US$0.8m 2008: US$1.2m.
During 2008 Stratos acquired a 26.67% interest in JSAT Mobile Communications Inc and the interest has been treated as an associate using the equity method of accounting.
The aggregated assets, liabilities, revenue and pro t of associates are deemed to be immaterial for reporting purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Cash at bank and in hand 105.8 108.5 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 121.0 47.9 226.8 156.4 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 226.8 156.4 Bank overdrafts note 19 0.5 1.8 226.3 154.6 17.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Current: Trade receivables 166.8 175.8 Other receivables 9.4 13.2 Other prepayments and accrued income 51.3 62.3 227.5 251.3 As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Non-current: Other prepayments and accrued income 1.5 2.2 1.5 2.2 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
76 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Finished goods 9.5 19.8 9.5 19.8 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
Borrowings Effective As at As at interest 31 December 31 December US$ in millions rate % 2009 2008 Current: Bank overdrafts 1.8 0.5 1.8 a Deferred satellite payments 7.0 9.3 10.2 b Senior Credit Facility 7.45 90.0 c Previous Senior Credit Facility 190.0 h Stratos Senior Credit Facility 2.75 9.6 2.3 j Stratos Mortgage obligation 0.1 Total current borrowings 109.4 204.4 Non-current: a Deferred satellite payments 7.0 38.1 31.2 b Senior Credit Facility 7.45 189.4 c Previous Senior Credit Facility 199.4 d Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 637.5 Issuance discount 4.8 e Senior Discount Notes 10.375 443.8 f Senior Notes due 2012 7.625 158.2 f Premium on Senior Notes due 2012 0.7 g Convertible Bond 9.88 261.3 242.0 Accretion of principal 2.3 2.1 h Stratos Senior Credit Facility 2.75 197.3 205.8 i Stratos Mortgage obligation 0.2 j Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 9.875 82.4 86.8 Total non-current borrowings 1,403.5 1,370.2 Total borrowings 1,512.9 1,574.6 a Deferred satellite payments represent amounts payable to satellite manufacturers which become payable annually depending on the continued successful performance of the satellite.
The gross amounts of the deferred satellite payments have been discounted to net present value at 7%.
b On 6 November 2009, we drew down on our US$500.0m Senior Credit Facility.
The new facility consists of a US$200.0m Term Loan and a US$300.0m Revolving Credit Facility of which we have initially drawn US$90.0m.
The new Senior Credit Facility will mature in May 2012 and has substantially similar terms and conditions as the Previous Senior Credit Facility.
Advances under the new Senior Credit Facility will bear interest equal to LIBOR, plus an applicable margin of between 2.00% and 3.00% determined by reference to the ratio of total net debt to EBITDA.
c On 6 November 2009 we pre-paid and cancelled the outstanding amount under the Previous Senior Credit Facility of US$315.0m and wrote-off unamortised costs in relation to the facility of US$0.3m.
d On 12 November 2009, our wholly-owned subsidiary company Inmarsat Finance plc issued US$650.0m aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Senior Notes due 1 December 2017 Senior Notes Due 2017.
The aggregate gross proceeds were US$645.2m, net of US$4.8m issuance discount.
We capitalised US$12.5m of issuance costs in relation to the issue of the Senior Notes due 2017. e On 11 December 2009 we redeemed the entire principal amount of US$450.0m outstanding under Inmarsat Finance II plcs 10.375% Senior Discount Notes.
At the redemption date we wrote off US$5.1m of unamortised costs in relation to the Senior Discount Notes.
f On 11 December 2009 we redeemed the entire principal amount of US$160.4m outstanding under Inmarsat Finance plcs 7.625% Senior Notes due 2012.
At the redemption date we wrote-off US$4.2m of unamortised costs and US$0.5m in respect of the capitalised premium, in relation to the Senior Notes due 2012. g On 16 November 2007, we issued US$287.7m in principal amount of 1.75% convertible bonds due 2017 the Bonds.
The Bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.50%.
The Bonds have an initial conversion premium of 32.5% over the reference share price of 4.6193 representing approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The initial conversion price is US$12.694 and the total number of common shares to be issued if all Bonds are converted is 22.7 million shares.
The Company will have an option to call the Bonds after 7 years at their accreted principal amount under certain circumstances.
In addition, the holder of each Bond will have the right to require the Issuer to redeem such Bond at its accreted principal amount at years 5 and 7.
Inmarsat plc 77 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond was split into a liability component of US$224.3m and an equity component of US$56.9m.
The equity component represents the fair value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, as follows: US$ in millions Fair value of convertible bonds issued 287.7 Cost of issue 6.5 Net proceeds 281.2 1 Equity component 56.9 2 Liability component at date of issue 224.3 Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2008 24.7 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2008 0.7 Cumulative coupon interest accrued to 31 December 2008 5.6 Liability component at 31 December 2008 244.1 Interest charged 23.6 Amortisation of debt issue costs 0.9 Coupon interest accrued 5.0 Liability component at 31 December 2009 263.6 1 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$1.3m.
2 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$5.2m.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.88% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of US$5.0m and accreted interest of US$18.6m.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
h On 13 February 2006, Stratos entered into a credit agreement, the Senior Credit Facilities, which consists of a five year US$10.0m Revolving Operating Facility and a six year Term B Facility of US$225.0m.
The Term B Facility is repayable in annual principal payments of US$2.3m with the balance due at maturity in February 2012 and bears interest at LIBOR plus an applicable margin, which is currently 250 basis points per annum 2007: 275 based on Stratos leverage ratio.
An improvement in the ratio in 2008 to beyond 3.5:1 resulted in a reduction of the margin rate to 250 basis points, as fide ned by the credit agreement.
The applicable LIBOR rate at 31 December 2009 was 0.25% 2008: 1.46%.
In addition to scheduled repayments, if leverage ratios exceed certain thresholds, speci ed proceeds from new debt and equity issuances as well as a stated percentage of excess cash ows, as fide ned in the credit agreement, are to be applied to the indebtedness outstanding under the facilities.
During the year Stratos reduced the amount of The Revolving Operating Facility, which has a term of five years and matures in February 2011, from US$25.0m to US$10.0m.
The Revolving Operating Facility is available to Stratos in Canadian or US dollars and bears interest at varying base rates plus 100 225 basis points per annum, based on Stratos leverage ratio as set out in the credit agreement.
As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, no amounts were drawn on the Revolving Operating Facility.
If any amounts had been drawn on the Revolving Operating Facility, as at 31 December 2009, the applicable interest rate would have been LIBOR plus 185 basis points 2008: LIBOR plus 185 basis points.
The US$10.0m Revolving Operating Facility at 31 December 2009 is subject to an annual commitment fee of 40 basis points 2008: 40 basis points.
This rate is subject to change based on Stratos leverage ratio as set out in the credit agreement.
i On 8 April 2009, Stratos settled its remaining mortgage obligation of US$0.3m.
j Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes were issued in February 2006.
The notes are due at maturity on 15 February 2013 and bear interest at a rate of 9.875% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on 15 February and 15 August each year.
During 2009, Inmarsat Finance III Limited Inmarsat III purchased US$5.5m 2008: US$57.7m of the aggregate principal amount of the notes.
Inmarsat III received a discount of US$0.1m 2008: US$2.9m and paid prepaid interest of US$0.1m 2008: US$1.3m which was later received back from the trustee Bank of New York.
At any time before 15 February 2009, Stratos had an option to redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes within 60 days of an equity offering, with the net proceeds of such offering, at a redemption price of 109.875% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, provided that immediately after giving effect to such redemption, at least 65% of the original principal amount of the notes remain outstanding.
Stratos did not exercise this option.
As collateral for Stratos Revolving Operating Facility and Stratos Term B Facility discussed in h above, Stratos has provided a first priority perfected security interest over all of the assets of Stratos and its subsidiaries, with the exception of Plenexis Gesellschaft Fr Satelliten Kommunikation mbH and its subsidiaries, Stratos Communications Australia Pty Limited and Stratos Global Japan KK.
Concurrent with the acquisition of Xantic B. V. Xantic, Stratos supplemented the collateral securing the credit facilities with a first priority perfected security interest on its equity interest in Xantic.
As additional security, all of the subsidiaries of Stratos other than Plenexis and its subsidiaries, Xantic and its subsidiaries, Stratos Communications Australia Pty Limited and Stratos Global Japan KK, have guaranteed obligations under the senior credit facilities.
78 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These balances are shown net of unamortised deferred finance costs, which have been allocated as follows: As at 31 December 2009 As at 31 December 2008 Deferred Deferred finance finance US$ in millions Amount cost Net balance Amount cost Net balance Senior Credit Facility 290.0 10.6 279.4 Previous Senior Credit Facility 390.0 0.6 389.4 Senior Notes due 2017 650.0 12.5 637.5 Issuance discount 4.8 4.8 Senior Discount Notes 450.0 6.2 443.8 Senior Notes due 2012 163.7 5.5 158.2 Premium on Senior Notes due 2012 0.7 0.7 Deferred satellite payments 47.4 47.4 41.4 41.4 Convertible Bonds 264.9 3.6 261.3 246.4 4.4 242.0 Accretion of interest on the principal 2.3 2.3 2.1 2.1 Bank overdrafts 0.5 0.5 1.8 1.8 Stratos Senior Credit Facilities 209.2 2.3 206.9 211.5 3.4 208.1 Stratos Mortgage obligation 0.3 0.3 Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 86.8 4.4 82.4 92.3 5.5 86.8 Total Borrowings 1,546.3 33.4 1,512.9 1,600.2 25.6 1,574.6 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: US$ in millions 2009 2008 Between one and two years 50.1 202.8 Between two and five years 702.4 1,160.1 After five years 651.0 7.3 1,403.5 1,370.2 The borrowings of the Group are mostly at xed rates.
The Senior Notes due 2017, Convertible Bonds and the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes are all at xed rates.
The Group has a US$300.0m Revolving Credit Facility that has no restrictions and as at 31 December 2009 was drawn down by US$90.0m 2008: US$140.0m drawn down under the revolving portion of the Previous Senior Credit Facility.
Stratos has in place a US$10.0m Revolving Operating Facility which was undrawn as at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes due 2017, Convertible Bonds and the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes to approximate to their fair value see note 29.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2009 2008 Bank overdrafts 1.8 2.0 Senior Credit Facility 7.45 Previous Senior Credit Facility 4.59 Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 Senior Discount Notes 10.375 Senior Notes due 2012 7.625 Deferred satellite payments 7.0 7.0 Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88 Stratos Senior Credit Facilities 2.75 3.96 Stratos Mortgage obligation 7.03 Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 9.875 9.875 Inmarsat plc 79 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 20.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Current: Trade payables 96.4 104.2 ACeS deferred consideration 2.9 2.4 SkyWave deferred consideration note 15 2.3 Other taxation and social security payables 2.9 2.7 Other creditors 24.1 30.7 a Accruals and deferred income 77.5 55.8 206.1 195.8 a As at 31 December 2009, includes US$31.3m of deferred income relating to a payment received from SkyTerra Communications, Inc. in connection with an agreement for L-band operations in North America.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Non-current: ACeS deferred consideration 2.7 SkyWave deferred consideration note 15 9.7 Other payables 17.9 13.9 27.6 16.6 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
Provisions Asset Other retirement US$ in millions provision obligations Total Current: As at 1 January 2008 0.1 0.1 Utilised in current year 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2008 Charged to provision in respect of current year 1.8 1.8 Utilised in current year 1.3 1.3 Asset retirement obligation transferred from non-current liability 0.4 0.4 As at 31 December 2009 0.5 0.4 0.9 Postretirement Asset healthcare retirement US$ in millions bene ts Pension obligations Other Total Non-current: As at 1 January 2008 22.3 14.5 3.5 1.1 41.4 Credited charged to Income Statement 4.8 1.9 0.2 0.3 6.2 Charged directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 2.6 6.1 8.7 Contributions paid 5.7 5.7 Utilised in current year 0.3 1.3 0.3 0.5 2.4 As at 31 December 2008 19.8 11.7 3.4 0.9 35.8 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 4.4 1.8 0.3 0.2 6.7 Charged directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 9.3 12.1 21.4 Contributions paid 6.4 6.4 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.1 0.6 1.0 Revision in estimated cash ows and timing of settlement 0.3 0.3 Transfer to current liability 0.4 0.4 As at 31 December 2009 33.2 19.2 2.9 0.5 55.8 During 2009, the Group made an additional cash contribution of US$3.6m 2008: US$3.8m to reduce the pension fide cit.
Following the actuarial valuation of the Inmarsat Pension Plan the Plan as at 31 December 2008 see note 27, the trustee and the Company have agreed that additional contributions will be paid to the Plan.
It was agreed that 2.2m would be paid in November 2009 and 2.2m annually thereafter, up to and including November 2015.
Asset retirement obligations have been recognised in respect of the expected costs of removal of equipment from leased premises by Stratos.
Other provisions in 2009 and 2008 relate to a legally required provision for eventual severance payments to employees based overseas, other provisions in 2008 also include a provision acquired on acquisition of Stratos, which has been fully utilised in 2009.
80 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities The current income tax liability of US$34.0m 2008: US$27.8m represents the income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
Recognised deferred income tax assets and liabilities The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same scal authority.
As at 31 December 2009 As at 31 December 2008 US$ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2.6 103.6 101.0 19.3 109.5 90.2 Other 10.5 3.8 6.7 27.8 7.8 20.0 Pension asset 12.7 12.7 6.7 6.7 Share options 5.5 5.5 2.9 2.9 Loss carry forwards 11.7 11.7 34.1 34.1 Valuation allowances 6.9 6.9 26.0 26.0 Net deferred income tax liabilities 43.0 114.3 71.3 90.8 143.3 52.5 Movement in temporary differences during the year: As at As at 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2009 in income in equity 2009 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 90.2 10.8 101.0 Other 20.0 0.8 12.5 6.7 Pension asset 6.7 0.7 5.3 12.7 Share options 2.9 1.0 1.6 5.5 Loss carry forwards 34.1 22.4 11.7 Valuation allowances 26.0 19.1 6.9 Total 52.5 13.2 5.6 71.3 As at As at 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December 2008 in income in equity 2008 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 264.5 174.3 90.2 Other 10.0 0.1 9.9 20.0 Pension asset 8.7 4.2 2.2 6.7 Share options 3.3 0.4 2.9 Loss carry forwards 47.6 13.5 34.1 Valuation allowances 35.6 9.6 26.0 Total 230.5 166.3 11.7 52.5 23.
Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating pro t to net cash in ow from operating activities.
US$ in millions 2009 2008 Pro t for the year 152.8 355.4 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 231.6 214.7 Income tax charge credit 44.1 161.6 Interest payable 161.6 138.2 Interest receivable 1.7 14.8 Non-cash employee bene t costs 23.2 21.4 Forward exchange contracts 8.5 9.5 Share of results of associates, net of dividends received 0.1 0.4 Gain on disposal of xed assets 2.1 Goodwill adjustment 8.8 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 0.6 Changes in net working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 23.6 9.6 Decrease increase in inventories 10.2 4.0 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 5.9 16.8 Decrease in provisions 4.2 4.8 Cash generated from operations 645.8 528.0 Inmarsat plc 81 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 24.
Share capital As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2008: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 459,554,882 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2008: 459,048,648 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2009, a total of 506,234 2008: 1,561,765 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 May 2008, shareholders approved that the 11,669,472 Euro deferred shares of 0.01 each and the 50,000 Sterling deferred shares of 1.00 each in the authorised share capital of the Company be cancelled and that the authorised share capital be diminished by 116,694.72 and 50,000 accordingly.
Employee share options and awards In November 2004, the Company adopted the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan.
219,020 A ordinary shares were granted under the 2004 Plan to eligible Directors or employees of the Group.
A second grant of options over 7,140 A ordinary shares was made under the 2004 Plan to employees in January 2005.
As part of the IPO in 2005, the A ordinary shares were converted following a 1 for 20 share split into ordinary shares.
A third grant of options over 1,175,240 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each was approved in May 2005 under the 2004 Plan and granted to employees in June 2005.
Both subsequent grants were made on equivalent terms to the initial grant in November 2004.
All options granted under the 2004 Plan and held by optionholders have now vested and are exercisable.
Whenever options are exercised under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Following the exercise of options granted under the 2004 Plan, shares are transferred to the optionholders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Guernsey.
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
A summary of share activity within the Trust as at 31 December 2009 is as follows: Weighted average exercise Shares available Options price per for grant outstanding option Balance at 1 January 2008 1,040,904 311,692 3.64 Forfeited 180 180 Exercised 122,551 4.74 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 28,926 Market purchase of shares 30 October 2008 10,000 Balance at 31 December 2008 1,022,158 188,961 3.75 Exercised 25,787 5.64 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 1,922 Adjustment 4,942 Balance at 31 December 2009 1,015,294 163,174 3.67 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 163,174 Exercise Price per tranche 1.00 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31 December 2009 is 5 years.
In line with IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, the Group recognised US$10.8m and US$9.4m respectively in total share compensation costs across all its share plans for the 2009 and 2008 financial years.
Total share-based compensation costs are recognised over the vesting period of the options and share awards ranging from one to four years.
82 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Prior to the Company being publicly quoted, the exercise price of the options over the A ordinary shares of the Company issued under the 2004 Plan was fide minimis in nature and post the IPO remains fide minimis in nature, accordingly the fair value of each option is equivalent to the fair value of the underlying share at the date of the grant.
This fair value of US$12.50 per share before any adjustment for the share split in June 2005 was estimated with the assistance of independent advisers, who calculated a range of potential values using analysis of comparable quoted shares, discounted cash ows and comparable transactions.
The fair value within this range was then selected by the Directors using the independent analysis which had been prepared.
For the options granted under the 2004 Plan in June 2005 before the share split, the fair value was estimated by the Directors to be US$30.00 per share.
The US$30.00 was calculated using a similar methodology to the independent advisers as the Directors of the Company continued to believe that the discounted trading multiple approach was the most appropriate.
The Company also operates a Bonus Share Plan BSP.
The following awards under the BSP have been made to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management: during 2006, awards of shares were made relating to monetary awards determined in May 2005 and September 2005.
These awards have now all vested: during 2008, awards of shares were made relating to monetary awards determined in March, May and September 2007.
These awards vested and will vest subject to continued employment in three equal tranches following the announcement of the Preliminary Results for each of the financial years 2008, 2009 and 2010: and during 2009, awards of shares were made relating to a monetary award determined in March 2008.
These awards will vest in three equal tranches following the announcement of the Preliminary Results for each of the financial years 2010, 2011 and 2012. during 2010, awards of shares will be made relating to monetary awards determined in March and May 2009.
These awards will vest in three equal tranches following the announcement of the Preliminary Results for each of the financial years 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSP are non-market based performance conditions.
Dividends will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Details of the operation of the BSP can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The rules of the BSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is the intention, however, of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSP provides free share awards with no market based performance conditions attached, and which carry an entitlement to dividends paid in cash or shares during the vesting period, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded will not change.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP under which the first share award was made on 31 May 2005 in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The number of shares subject to the share award was determined by reference to the price at which the shares were offered for sale upon the listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange in June 2005 of 2.45 per share.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid during the vesting period in the form of cash or additional shares.
In March 2008, 100% of these shares vested.
Additional share awards under the PSP were made in September 2005, March 2007, March 2008, March 2009 and May 2009 with the reference price in determining the number of shares of 3.24, 3.95, 4.39, 4.57 and 5.35 respectively market value of shares on the date of grant.
The PSP shares will not normally be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon the performance conditions being satis ed over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is the intention, however, of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three year period unless a participant leaves and is entitled under the Rules to receive a proportionate award and the performance condition has been met.
Details of the operation of the PSP can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Inmarsat plc 83 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The performance conditions for the PSP is based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts and a non-market based condition, based on EBITDA measured over a three year period.
The vesting schedule for PSP awards is structured so that the shape of the vesting schedule is determined by both TSR and EBITDA performance.
The market based performance condition has been incorporated into the valuation.
The fair value of the allocation and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Performance Share Plan 31 May 29 September 29 March 19 March 20 March 14 May Grant date 2005 2005 2007 2008 2009 2009 Grant price 2.45 3.24 3.95 4.39 4.57 5.35 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Vesting period 3years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected correlation between any pair of shares in PSP comparator group 12% 10% n a n a n a n a Volatility 36% 34% 27% 28.5% 34.9% 36.2% Fair value per share option 1.34 2.20 2.15 2.40 3.21 3.30 Both the BSP and PSP share awards expire 10 years after date of grant.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for both the BSP and PSP share awards at 31 December 2009 is 8.0 and 7.1 years respectively.
In September 2007 the Remuneration Committee made the Chief Executive Of cer an exceptional award of one million incentive shares conditional upon the delivery of signi cant share price growth.
The mid-market closing share price on 27 September 2007 was 4.49 per share.
On 1 October 2009, at the request of the Nominations Committee on behalf of the Inmarsat plc Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Of cer agreed to extend his term as Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer to 30 September 2011 and then remain in the role of Chairman for a period of not less than one year.
The Remuneration Committee also agreed changes on the same date to the existing CEO Award.
No shares will be earned unless, by 30 September 2012 previously the term was to 30 September 2010, the share price reaches a minimum price of 5.50.
For performance above this level, shares will be earned pro rata up to a share price of 7.25 at which the full award will be earned.
A further award over 700,000 shares could be earned if, at the time that performance is assessed, the share price has reached 9.25.
If the share price is below 7.25, none of the additional shares would be earned and if between 7.25 and 9.25, shares would be earned pro rata up to a share price of 9.25.
The share price performance condition will be assessed on the basis of the average closing price of Inmarsat shares over the last 60 days previously 20 trading days of the performance period.
Additional shares will accrue representing the value of dividends paid during the performance period on the number of shares that ultimately vest.
The Remuneration Committee anticipates that if an award of shares is made to Mr Sukawaty, then the share price performance will have out-performed the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts.
However, in the event that this is not the case, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to scale back the award of shares by up to 50% of the proposed share award.
The Trust purchased one million shares on 26 November 2007 to hold against the satisfaction of the award.
This has been funded through a loan from Inmarsat plc to the Trust.
An announcement was made on 16 December 2009 relating to a deferred share bonus award of 125,000 shares to the Chief Executive Of cer.
The mid-market closing share price on 15 December 2009 was 6.59 per share.
The shares will generally vest in September 2012 to the extent that the performance condition of EBITDA growth related to the 2010 financial year has been satis ed.
CEO Deferred Share Bonus CEO Award Award 28 September 16 December Grant date 2007 2009 Grant price 4.49 6.59 Exercise price nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years Expected correlation between any pair of shares in PSP comparator group n a n a Volatility 28% n a Fair value per share option 2.65 n a 84 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company also operates a UK Sharesave Scheme.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HM Revenue & Customs approved scheme open to all UK PAYE-paying permanent employees.
The maximum that can be saved each month by an employee is 250 and savings plus interest may be used to acquire shares by exercising the related option at the end of the three-year savings contract.
Options are exercisable for a period of up to six months following the end of the three year savings contract and under certain circumstances if an employee leaves the Inmarsat group.
No dividends are accumulated on options during the vesting period.
Newly issued shares will be used to satisfy the options.
The first grant under the Sharesave Scheme was made in July 2005 with an option grant price of 2.24 per ordinary share a 20% discount to market value of the shares on the first invitation date 23 June 2005.
The first grant matured on 1 September 2008.
A second grant under the Sharesave Scheme was made in December 2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share a 20% discount to the average market value of the shares in the week prior to the invitation date 17-21 November 2008.
The Company also operates an International Sharesave Plan which mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
However, instead of receiving a share option, participants receive the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares only some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
The first grant under the International Sharesave Plan was made in October 2005 with an option grant price of 2.24 per ordinary share.
A second grant under the International Sharesave Plan was made in December 2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the second grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2009 is 2.5 years for each plan.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan have been valued using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Scheme Scheme Plan Plan UK UK International International Grant date 21 July 2005 15 December 2008 19 October 2005 15 December 2008 Market price at date of Grant 3.14 4.44 2.80 4.44 Exercise price 2.24 3.06 2.24 3.06 Bad leaver rate 5%pa 3%pa 5%pa 3%pa Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 35% 33.2% 34% 33.2% Dividend yield assumption 3.6% 3.36% 2.8% 3.36% Risk free interest rate 4.25% 2.46% 4.25% 2.46% Fair value per option 1.10 1.50 0.90 1.50 The historical volatility is based on the constituents of the FTSE 350 Telecoms Service Index, which was measured over three years to each of the grant dates.
The volatility assumption used for each of the awards is based on median volatility for the constituents of the sector.
Awards under the UK Share Incentive Plan SIP were made on 7 April 2006 and 10 April 2007.
The SIP is an HM Revenue & Customs approved plan open to all UK PAYE employees and operates in conjunction with a UK tax-resident trust which holds shares on behalf of participating employees.
Under the SIP, the Company can award Free Shares up to a maximum value of 3,000 to employees.
Employees can also acquire Partnership Shares from their salary up to a maximum of 1,500 per annum and the Company will match this with up to two free Matching Shares per Partnership Share equivalent to a maximum value of 3,000 per annum.
The market value per ordinary share at the date of the awards was 3.77 2006 and 4.14 2007.
Arrangements were put in place for eligible overseas employees to replicate both awards under the SIP as closely as possible.
Additional arrangements were put in place for employees to acquire shares over the capped amounts in relation to the SIP award in 2006.
On 7 April 2006, in aggregate 57,872 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were awarded to eligible employees from the Trust in respect of the award to overseas employees and the additional award to certain employees.
On 10 April 2007, 15,926 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were awarded to eligible overseas employees to replicate the SIP award.
The same market values per ordinary share were used as for the SIP for each award.
Inmarsat plc 85 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued No Executive Director or member of Executive Staff applied to participate in the SIP or equivalent overseas arrangements.
A summary of share awards and option activity as at 31 December 2009 excluding the 2004 Plan which is noted previously is as follows: SIP SIP Intl and CEO Share Sharesave Sharesave a UK Unapproved BSP Plans PSP UK International Total Balance at 31 December 2008 549,907 58,122 969,238 1,000,000 440,209 888,523 170,331 4,076,330 Granted Allocated 807,630 125,000 427,687 1,360,317 Lapsed 31,467 4,705 36,172 Exercised 57,895 6,766 64,661 Transferred Sold 44,543 46,112 415,357 506,012 Balance at 31 December 2009 505,364 12,010 1,361,511 1,125,000 867,896 799,161 158,860 4,829,802 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 Exercise Price per share n a n a nil nil nil b c n a a The CEO Share Plans comprises i the CEO Award of 1 million shares, where as described previously, a further award over 700,000 shares could be earned if the share price has reached 9.25 per share: and ii the CEO Deferred Share Bonus Award of 125,000 shares.
b The first grant under the UK Sharesave scheme in 2005 had an exercise price of 2.24.
The second grant under the UK Sharesave scheme in 2008 has an exercise price of 3.06. c The first grant under the International Sharesave plan in 2005 had an exercise price of 2.24.
The second grant under the International Sharesave plan in 2008 has an exercise price of 3.06.
Earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated as cancelled, and after taking account of the restructuring of the existing share capital.
2009 2008 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 152.7 355.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 459,189,778 457,852,525 Basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.33 0.78 Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the pro t attributable to equity holders for the interest on the Convertible Bonds net of tax and by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Currently the underlying shares in relation to our Convertible Bonds outstanding and the Share options in relation to employee share plans are the only categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the Convertible Bonds the weighted average of the maximum number of ordinary shares, assuming full conversion, is included in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares.
For employee share options a calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and value of related future employee services.
2009 2008 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 152.7 355.3 Adjustments for: Interest on Convertible Bonds, net of tax 17.1 15.9 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 169.8 371.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 459,189,778 457,852,525 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,096,264 3,161,817 Convertible Bonds number 22,664,251 22,664,251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 485,950,293 483,678,593 Diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.35 0.77 86 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Adjusted earnings per share The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2009 were adjusted to exclude the one-off costs of US$28.8m US$20.7m net of tax in relation to the renancing see note 9, the goodwill adjustment of US$8.8m and the associated tax credit of US$8.8m see notes 10 and 14.
The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2008 were adjusted to exclude the tax credit of US$218.6m associated with the finance lease and operating leaseback transaction.
Earnings per share adjusted to exclude the tax credit on the finance lease and operating leaseback transaction see note 10.
Adjusted basic earnings per share 2009 2008 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 152.7 355.3 Adjustments for: One-off renancing costs, net of tax US$ in millions 20.7 Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 Tax credit relating to Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 2008 tax credit US$ in millions 218.6 Adjusted pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 173.4 136.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 459,189,778 457,852,525 Adjusted basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.38 0.30 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 2009 2008 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 169.8 371.2 Adjustments for: One-off renancing costs, net of tax US$ in millions 20.7 Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 Tax credit relating to Goodwill adjustment US$ in millions 8.8 2008 tax credit US$ in millions 218.6 Adjusted pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 190.5 152.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 459,189,778 457,852,525 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,096,264 3,161,817 Convertible Bonds number 22,664,251 22,664,251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 485,950,293 483,678,593 Adjusted diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.39 0.32 27.
Pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare bene ts Inmarsat Global provides both pension fund arrangements and post-retirement medical bene ts for its employees.
Inmarsat Global operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The UK scheme has two plans: a fide ned bene t scheme, which is closed to new employees, and a fide ned contribution plan.
The fide ned bene t scheme is funded and its assets are held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee.
The fide ned bene t plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the formal valuation undertaken by professionally quali ed and independent actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited, as at 31 December 2008.
The actuarial valuation of the liabilities of the scheme at that date, net of assets, was US$17.3m.
The results of the valuation have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2009.
The results of this updated valuation as at 31 December 2009, for the purposes of the additional disclosures required by IAS 19, are set out below.
The post-retirement healthcare bene ts are the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare bene t plans.
The plan is self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing retiree healthcare is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee group.
Membership of this plan is multi-national, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
Inmarsat plc 87 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The obligation under these plans was determined by the application of the terms of medical plans, together with relevant actuarial assumptions and healthcare cost trend rates.
The long-term rate of medical expense in ation used in the actuarial calculations is 4.0% per annum in excess of the rate of general price in ation of 3.85% 2008: 4.0% in excess of 3.15%.
The discount rate used in determining the accumulated post-retirement bene t obligation was 5.5% at 31 December 2009 2008: 6.1%.
Both the fide ned bene t pension plan and the post-retirement healthcare bene ts plan are denominated in Pounds Sterling and are subject to uctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and Pounds Sterling.
Stratos provides pension fund arrangements for its employees and operates schemes in each of its principal locations.
The majority of Stratos employees are covered by fide ned contribution pension plans.
Stratos also operates fide ned bene t pension plans, including an unfunded early retirement plan for the employees of its subsidiary Xantic B. V. which is denominated in Euros and is subject to uctuations in the exchange rate between the US Dollars and the Euro.
The fide ned bene t plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the formal valuation undertaken by professionally quali ed and independent actuaries TKP Pension B. V. Netherlands as at 31 December 2009.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate Inmarsat Globals pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities under IAS 19 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.50% 6.10% Expected return on plan assets 7.77% 7.77% Future salary increases 5.60% 5.15% Medical cost trend rate 7.85% 7.15% Future pension increases 3.85% 3.15% The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate Stratos pension bene t liabilities under IAS 19 as at 31 December 2009 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Discount rate 1.70-3.80% 3.60-4.80% Future salary increases 1.50-2.00% 2.00-3.78% Future pension increases 0.00-1.80% 1.40-2.10% The mortality assumption has been updated to re ect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for Inmarsat Globals pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities are as follows: 2009 2008 Number Number of years of years Male current age 65 87.4 86.2 Female current age 65 90.3 89.5 For 2009, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS Series 1 Normal Health tables, with long cohort improvements from 2003 based on year of birth, subject to minimum funding improvements of 1% per annum.
For 2008, mortality was assumed to follow the standard tables PA92C2006 with the improvement allowance of 0.25% replaced with medium cohort improvements.
88 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The assets held in respect of the Inmarsat Globals fide ned bene t scheme and the expected rates of return were: As at 31 December 2009 Long-term Percentage rate of return Value of total expected US$ in plan assets % millions % Equities 8.15% 46.8 86.99% Cash 4.75% Bonds 5.00% 5.3 9.85% Other 6.30% 1.7 3.16% Fair value of scheme assets 53.8 As at 31 December 2008 Long-term Percentage rate of return Value of total expected US$ in plan assets % millions % Equities 8.15 29.5 84.29 Cash 3.95 Bonds 5.40 4.2 12.00 Other 6.80 1.3 3.71 Fair value of scheme assets 35.0 Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Present value of Inmarsat Globals funded fide ned bene t obligations pension 68.6 41.9 Present value of Inmarsat Globals unfunded fide ned bene t obligations post-retirement healthcare 33.2 19.8 Present value of Stratos unfunded fide ned bene t obligations pension 4.4 4.8 Fair value of Inmarsat Globals fide ned bene t assets 53.8 35.0 Net fide ned bene t liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 52.4 31.5 Analysis of the movement in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations is as follows: Inmarsat Stratos Global fide ned Postfide ned bene t bene t retirement pension pension medical US$ in millions plan plan bene ts At 1 January 2008 58.2 7.9 22.3 Current service cost 1.6 0.2 0.8 Interest cost 3.4 0.2 1.3 Actuarial gain loss 6.3 2.3 2.6 Foreign exchange gain loss 15.6 0.1 6.9 Bene ts paid 0.5 1.3 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.1 At 31 December 2008 41.9 4.8 19.8 Current service cost 1.1 0.1 0.8 Interest cost 3.4 0.1 1.6 Actuarial loss 17.4 0.5 9.3 Foreign exchange loss gain 4.0 0.1 2.0 Bene ts paid 0.2 1.0 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 At 31 December 2009 68.6 4.4 33.2 Inmarsat plc 89 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Analysis of the movement in the fair value of Inmarsat Globals assets of the fide ned bene t section of the UK Scheme is as follows: US$ in millions 2009 2008 At 1 January 35.0 51.6 Expected return on plan assets 3.7 4.0 Actuarial gain loss 5.8 14.7 Contributions by employer 5.4 5.7 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 1.1 Bene ts paid 0.2 0.5 Foreign exchange gain loss 3.1 12.2 At 31 December 53.8 35.0 Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2009 2008 Inmarsat Global Stratos PostInmarsat Global Stratos Postfide ned fide ned retirement fide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare bene t bene t healthcare US$ in millions pension plan pension plan bene ts pension plan pension plan bene ts Current service cost 1.1 0.1 0.8 1.6 0.2 0.8 Interest cost 3.4 0.1 1.6 3.4 0.2 1.3 Expected return on pension assets 3.7 4.0 Foreign exchange loss gain 0.9 0.1 2.0 3.4 0.1 6.9 1.7 0.1 4.4 2.4 0.5 4.8 Actual return on plan assets gain loss 10.5 9.5 Current services costs for 2009 are included within employee bene t costs note 7.
The net nancing costs together with foreign exchange losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2009 2008 Inmarsat Global Stratos PostInmarsat Global Stratos Postfide ned fide ned retirement fide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare bene t bene t healthcare US$ in millions pension plan pension plan bene ts pension plan pension plan bene ts Net actuarial losses gains 11.6 0.5 9.3 8.4 2.3 2.6 History of experience gains and losses: 2009 Inmarsat Global Stratos Postfide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare US$ in millions pension plan pension plan bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 68.6 4.4 33.2 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 53.8 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 14.8 4.4 33.2 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.3 0.5 0.1 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.4% 11.4% 0.3% Experience losses on plan assets US$ in millions 5.8 Percentage of plan assets 10.8% 2008 2007 Inmarsat Global Stratos PostInmarsat Global Stratos Postfide ned fide ned retirement fide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare bene t bene t healthcare US$ in millions pension plan pension plan bene ts pension plan pension plan bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 41.9 4.8 19.8 58.2 7.9 22.3 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 35.0 51.6 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 6.9 4.8 19.8 6.6 7.9 22.3 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.2 7.1 0.3 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 4.3% 35.9% 0.0% 0.0% 1.3% Experience gains on plan assets US$ in millions 14.7 0.3 Percentage of plan assets 42.0% 0.6% 90 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006 2005 Inmarsat Global PostInmarsat Global Postfide ned retirement fide ned retirement bene t healthcare bene t healthcare pension plan bene ts pension plan bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 56.3 22.0 46.6 18.5 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 41.1 27.9 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 15.2 22.0 18.7 18.5 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities US$ in millions 3.4 0.3 0.7 Percentage of plan liabilities 6.0% 1.4% 0.1% 3.9% Experience losses gains on plan assets US$ in millions 0.2 3.9 Percentage of plan assets 0.5% 14.0% The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global fide ned bene t pension plan during 2010 are US$4.7m 2009: actual US$5.4m.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Stratos fide ned bene t pension plan during 2010 are US$1.1m.
The healthcare cost trend rate assumption for Inmarsat Globals post-retirement healthcare bene ts has a signi cant effect on the amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the post-retirement medical bene ts.
Increasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have increased the post-retirement medical bene t obligation as of 31 December 2009 by US$9.5m 2008: US$5.2m and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost by US$0.7m 2008: US$0.7m.
Decreasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have reduced the post-retirement medical bene t obligation as of 31 December 2009 by US$7.0m 2008: US$3.9m, and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost by US$0.5m 2008: US$0.5m.
Operating lease commitments The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Within one year 22.8 20.0 Within two to five years 57.3 49.4 After five years 106.9 105.5 187.0 174.9 Operating lease commitments relate to leased of ce space, primarily of the Groups head of ce located at 99 City Road, London, and various non-cancellable network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
At 31 December 2009, the Group, in addition to the above operating lease commitments is contracted to pay warranty costs of US$0.5 over the next year as at 31 December 2008: US$nil over the next year.
Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2009 include US$21.7m 2008: US$18.7m of commitments made by Stratos.
The total of future sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub leases at 31 December 2009 relating to the above head of ce lease is US$1.1m over one year as at 31 December 2008: US$2.7m over two years.
The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity charges.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms.
The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received including Inmarsat Global and Stratos but excluding intragroup amounts are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Within one year 58.6 69.5 Within two to five years 1.2 0.6 59.8 70.1 Inmarsat plc 91 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 29.
Financial instruments Treasury management and strategy The Groups treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief Financial Of cer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due: maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities: economically hedging both contracted and anticipated foreign currency cash ows on a minimum 12 months rolling basis with the option of covering exposures up to a maximum of three years forward: interest rate hedging: and maximising return on short-term investments.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
Treasury foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies.
The treasury department is, however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency deals.
This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21.
The policy is designed to minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the Income Statement: gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those that were forecast.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, re finance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes borrowings see note 19, cash and cash equivalents see note 16 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent see note 24, comprising ordinary share capital, share premium, other reserves, equity reserve and retained earnings.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2008.
Financial instruments by category The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: As at 31 December 2009 As at 31 December 2008 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for US$ in millions receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Assets as per Balance Sheet Trade and other receivables 227.5 227.5 251.3 251.3 Cash and cash equivalents 226.8 226.8 156.4 156.4 Derivative financial instruments 24.1 24.1 9.7 9.7 454.3 24.1 478.4 407.7 9.7 417.4 As at 31 December 2009 As at 31 December 2008 Derivatives Other Derivatives Other used for financial used for financial US$ in millions hedging Liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 1,512.9 1,512.9 1,574.6 1,574.6 a Trade and other payables 129.2 129.2 123.2 123.2 Derivative financial instruments 27.0 27.0 70.0 70.0 27.0 1,642.1 1,669.1 70.0 1,697.8 1,767.8 a Consists of trade payables, ACeS deferred consideration, SkyWave deferred consideration and other payables see note 20.
92 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
As at 31 December 2009 Less than Between 1 Between 2 US$ in millions 1 year and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years Total a Borrowings 109.4 59.4 720.4 647.1 1,536.3 Derivative financial instruments 14.1 7.8 5.1 27.0 Trade and other payables 101.6 10.4 3.7 13.5 129.2 225.1 77.6 729.2 660.6 1,692.5 a Excludes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, Senior Credit Facility, Convertible Bond, Stratos Senior Credit facility and Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes of US$83.7m due less than 1 year, US$83.7m due 1-2 years, US$172.6m due 3-5 years and US$139.8m due over 5 years.
Includes interest obligations on the Revolving Credit Facility assuming the current balance is held to maturity in May 2012.
The above interest obligations do not take into account the impact of interest rate swaps and assume no changes in oating interest rates from the year end.
As at 31 December 2008 Less than Between 1 Between 2 US$ in millions 1 year and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years Total a Borrowings 204.4 209.8 1,178.7 7.3 1,600.2 Derivative financial instruments 32.5 2.0 35.5 70.0 Trade and other payables 106.6 4.6 0.4 11.6 123.2 343.5 216.4 1, 214.6 18.9 1,793.4 a Excludes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2012, Senior Discount Notes, Senior Credit Facility, Convertible Bond, Stratos Senior Credit facility and Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes of US$113.0m due less than 1 year, US$107.5m due 1-2 years: and US$181.2m due 3-5 years.
Includes interest obligations on the Previous Revolving Credit Facility assuming the current balance is held to maturity in May 2010.
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments The Groups derivative financial instruments as at 31 December 2009 consist of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
The interest rate swaps and approximately 90% of forward foreign currency contracts 2008: 90% are designated cash ow hedges.
The net fair values at the Balance Sheet date were: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2009 2008 Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 23.7 9.7 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.4 Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 1.3 31.6 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 2.8 Total forward exchange currency contracts 22.8 24.7 Interest rate swap designated cash ow hedge 25.7 35.6 Total net fair value 2.9 60.3 Less non-current portion Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 12.0 6.6 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated Interest rate swap designated cash ow hedge 12.9 35.5 Current portion 2.0 31.4 The full value of a hedging derivative is classi ed as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts are based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk free rate at the period end.
Inmarsat plc 93 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The fair value of the interest rate swaps performed by management were based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Forward foreign exchange The following table sets out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2009 and 2008: As at 31 December 2009 Maturing Maturing Outstanding forward foreign exchange Face Maturing between between Fair value contracts in millions value within 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years US$ GBP contracts 79.3 70.3 9.0 8.3 Euro contracts 129.60 40.50 45.20 43.90 14.9 Canadian Dollar contracts $19.20 $19.20 0.4 22.8 As at 31 December 2008 Maturing Maturing Outstanding forward foreign exchange Face Maturing between between Fair value contracts in millions value within 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years US$ GBP contracts 94.6 67.6 27.0 32.3 Euro contracts 145.1 29.2 26.8 89.1 8.2 Canadian Dollar contracts $17.0 $17.0 0.6 24.7 Interest rate swap The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2009: Average contracted Notional xed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Outstanding oating for US$ US$ US$ US$ xed contracts % % in millions in millions in millions in millions Less than 1 year 3.95% 75.0 12.8 0.1 1 to 2 years 4.50% 100.0 7.8 2 to 5 years 4.93% 4.79% 200.0 300.0 5.1 35.5 5 years 300.0 375.0 25.7 35.6 Under the interest rate swaps the Group receives quarterly oating interest three-month USD LIBOR to offset oating interest payable.
Gains or losses will reverse in the Income Statement when the swaps expire.
In 2009, the Group recognised a credit of US$0.6m 2008: a charge of US$1.4m directly in the Income Statement as a result of ineffectiveness arising on designated interest rate swaps.
Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term and long-term investments, trade debtors and other debtors.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of bank overdrafts, deferred satellite payments, Senior Credit Facilities, Senior Discount Notes, Senior Notes, Convertible Bonds, Stratos Senior Credit Facilities, Stratos Mortgage Obligation, Stratos Capital Lease Obligation, Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes, accrued and accreted interest on borrowings, trade creditors and other creditors.
94 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities With the exception of the Senior Notes, Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Bonds and Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the Balance Sheet.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: The fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 16.
The fair value of trade and other receivables and payables approximate their carrying values see notes 17 and 20 respectively.
The carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19.
Senior Credit Facilities are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$10.6m 2008: US0.6m.
The fair value approximates the carrying value see note 19.
The Senior Notes due 2017 are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009 net of unamortised arrangement costs and issuance discount of US$12.5m and US$4.8m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes are based on the market price of the bonds as at 31 December 2009 and are re ected in the table below.
The Senior Notes due 2012 and Senior Discount Notes were redeemed in December 2009 see note 19.
The liability component of the Convertible Bond is re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009 on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$3.6m 2008: US$4.4m see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bond is based on the market price of the bonds as at 31 December 2009 and is re ected in the table below.
The Stratos Senior Credit Facilities and Revolving Operating Facility are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009 at amortised cost, net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$2.3m and US$nil 2008: US$3.4m and US$nil respectively see note 19.
Their fair values approximate their carrying values excluding unamortised arrangement costs.
The Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009 net of unamortised transaction costs of US$4.4m 2008: US$5.5m see note 19.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group owned US$63.2m 2008: US$57.7m of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes.
The fair value of the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes is based on the market price of the notes as at 31 December 2009 and is re ected in the table below.
As at 31 December 2009 As at 31 December 2008 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value US$ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2017 650.0 661.4 Senior Discount Notes 450.0 400.8 a Senior Notes due 2012 310.4 270.8 Convertible Bond 264.9 331.8 246.4 204.1 Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 86.8 91.8 92.3 86.9 a At 31 December 2008 includes US$146.7m of the aggregate principal amount outstanding which was owned by the Group see note 19.
Capital commitments The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2009 of US$394.5m 2008: US$366.9m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Alphasat project.
Related party transactions In the normal course of operations Stratos engages in transactions with its equity owned investees Navarino Telecom SA and NTS Maritime Limited together Navarino.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related party for the 2009 financial year was US$23.1m 2008: US$21.4m.
The amount receivable from the related party at 31 December 2009 was US$8.4m 2008: US$8.0m.
Remuneration paid to key management personnel, being the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company, during the year is disclosed in the audited information contained within the Directors Remuneration Report.
The amount owing to the Directors as at 31 December 2009 and 2008 was US$1.9m and US$1.7m respectively.
Management believe that all related party transactions were made on an arms length basis.
Inmarsat plc 95 Annual report and accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 32.
Principal subsidiary undertakings The following subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial information: Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary share capital share capital at 31 at 31 Country of incorporation December December Principal activity and operation 2009 2008 EuropaSat Limited Operating company Great Britain 100% 100% a Hornet Acquisition, Inc Holding company USA 100% Inmarsat B. V. Service provider The Netherlands 100% 100% Inmarsat Brasil Limitada Legal representative of Inmarsat Brazil 99.9% 99.9% Inmarsat Canada Holdings Inc. Holding company Canada 100% 100% Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited Corporate trustee Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust Employee share trust Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance III Limited Finance company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance II plc Finance company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance plc Finance company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Government Services Inc. Service provider USA 100% 100% b Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. Holding company USA 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Hawaii Inc. Service provider USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Inc. Service provider USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat IP Company Limited Intellectual pr operty holding company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Launch Company Limited Satellite launch Company Isle of Man 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Limited Satellite leasing Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Services Limited Employment company Great Britain 100% 100% Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited Corporate trustee Great Britain 100% 100% c Inmarsat US Holdings 2 Inc. Holding company USA 100% Inmarsat US Holdings Inc. Holding company USA 100% 100% d Inmarsat US Investments Limited Holding company Great Britain 100% e Inmarsat US Services LLC Holding company USA 100% Inmarsat Ventures Limited Holding company Great Britain 100% 100% f ISAT US Inc. Licence holder USA 100% PT ISAT Management and business consulting services Indonesia 100% 100% g CIP UK Holdings Limited Holding company Great Britain 100% 0% g CIP Canada Investment Inc. Holding company Canada 100% 0% g Stratos Global Corporation Service provider Canada 100% 0% g Moskowskij Teleport Operating company Russia 80% 0% g Stratos Communications Inc. Operating company USA 100% 0% g Stratos Global Limited Operating company Great Britain 100% 0% g Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company USA 100% 0% g Stratos Mobile Networks Inc. Operating company USA 100% 0% g Stratos New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 0% g Stratos Offshore Services Company Operating company USA 100% 0% g Stratos Services Limited Operating company Great Britain 100% 0% g Stratos Wireless Inc. Operating company Canada 100% 0% g Xantic B. V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 0% g Xantic Sales B. V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 0% g Xantic Mobile Satellite Services Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Operating company Singapore 100% 0% g Xantic Hong Kong Ltd. Operating company China 100% 0% a Hornet Acquisition, Inc. was incorporated on 12 November 2009 and was renamed Segovia, Inc. in January 2010. b Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. was incorporated on 9 December 2009. c Inmarsat US Holdings 2 Inc. was incorporated on 9 December 2009. d Inmarsat US Investments Limited was incorporated on 10 December 2009. e Inmarsat US Services LLC was incorporated on 9 December 2009. f ISAT US Inc. formerly Inmarsat US Services Inc. was incorporated on 17 November 2009. g Following the exercise of the option on 15 April 2009 Inmarsat plc now has an equity interest in CIP UK Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.
96 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33.
Events after the balance sheet date On 12 January 2010, we completed the acquisition of the business and assets of Segovia for an initial consideration of US$110.0m and may pay additional amounts depending on the performance of the acquired business over the next three years.
The initial consideration was nanced from available liquidity and it is expected that any contingent consideration will be nanced using available liquidity at that time.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, Segovia reported total revenues of US$66.6m and net income of US$18.1m and had gross assets of US$28.8m.
A second interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend of 20.63 cents US$ per ordinary share will be paid on 1 April 2010 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 19 March 2010. Dividend payments will be made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London market four business days prior to payment.
This dividend has not been recognised as a liability for the 2009 financial year.
Subsequent to 31 December 2009 other than the events discussed above there have been no other material events, which would affect the information re ected in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Inmarsat plc 97 Annual report and accounts 2009
