GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group statement of cash flows and Accounting policies 65 Accounting policies General information The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation is Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2009 applied prospectively from 1 January 2009 and has not impacted the were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the effectiveness of the Groups net investment hedging arrangements.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC There has been no requirement to restate prior year comparatives the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in as a result of adopting any of the above.
Presentational currency Summary of significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars following a management decision to change the Basis of preparation reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
The change was The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared made to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollarIFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in linked currencies.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 Changes in accounting policies on transition to IFRS and this reserve has been re-presented on With effect from 1 January 2009, the Group has implemented the basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
International Accounting Standard IAS 1 Revised Presentation Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs, held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant and Cancellations, Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
Disclosures, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretation IFRIC 13 The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United Investment in a Foreign Operation.
Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose primary activity is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements has resulted denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
in the introduction of the Group statement of changes in equity as a primary financial statement.
The revised standard also introduces Basis of consolidation the Group statement of comprehensive income, presented either in The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements a single statement or two linked statements.
The Group has of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
adopted the two statement approach.
All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs requires capitalisation of The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, consolidated for the period during which they were under the construction or production of a qualifying asset from 1 January Groups control.
The Groups previous policy was to expense all borrowing Foreign currencies costs as incurred.
In accordance with the transitional provisions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the of IAS 23, the revised standard has been adopted on a prospective functional currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates basis and applied to projects commencing after 1 January 2009. of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated No borrowing costs have been capitalised in the year.
in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions at the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the and Cancellations clarifies the definitions of vesting conditions and period.
All foreign exchange differences arising on translation are prescribes the treatment for cancelled awards.
The amendment recognised in the income statement except on foreign currency has not impacted the Groups financial performance or position.
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
The additional and revised disclosures are presented in note 23.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
ruling on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of The Group has concluded that the reportable segments determined foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business segments of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on previously reported under IAS 14.
On adoption of IFRS 8, certain the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation liabilities have been reclassified to Central functions as explained reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative in note 2. amount recognised in the currency translation reserve relating IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes requires customer loyalty to that particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain credits to be accounted for as a separate component of a sales or loss on disposal.
The adoption of IFRIC 13 has not had a material impact on the financial statements.
