14 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Nearly Take a Google Earth journey through some 250 million of our relaunched Holiday Inn hotels.
visits a year to our websites.
com ihgplc On screen, on target Technology is crucial to helping all areas of our business perform better and operate more efficiently.
From customised marketing to price optimisation and a device that allows guests to connect all their electronic gadgets in-room, Tom Conophy explains.
When it comes to technology Magic marketing our employees, owners and guests As consumers are influenced by more and more means of communication, we need are increasingly sophisticated.
to speak to them in increasingly sophisticated ways.
One way is to target individuals To meet demands for systems with promotions that will appeal to their lifestyle and interests.
Magic, our nextthey can interact with, in real time generation loyalty database, is allowing us to do just that.
and in a personal way, we need to Our databanks hold around 270 million guest profiles 48 million Priority Reward continually push the boundaries Club members along with previous guests from the past 10 years.
With Magic, were of innovation, making the most able to make more of our marketing campaigns directly relevant to consumers as of our investments and the talent well as marketing to guests in their own language.
of our people, while following our strategy.
That way well meet the challenge head-on and provide Making pricing a competitive tool an industry-leading technology Another significant project launched this year was our price optimisation module, the experience for everyone touched latest enhancement to our PERFORM revenue management system.
While revenue by our business.
management has become more complicated and more critical to a hotels profitability, traditional pricing methods are still largely unsophisticated and time-consuming.
Our new price optimisation tool incorporates real-time competitive rates with a hotels Tom Conophy demand and booking patterns to recommend the best price.
It maximises revenue Chief Information Officer opportunities on a daily basis, simplifies a complex task and, crucially, makes pricing a competitive weapon.
Initial results from hotels using price optimisation show an average of 2.7 per cent improvement in RevPAR.
IHGs Price Optimisation capability is the greatest single achievement in revenue management this decade.
Bob Cross, Chairman and CEO, Revenue Analytics.
Becoming more efficient As well as lowering our corporate operating costs, were supporting the rest of the business to operate more efficiently.
For instance, Green Engage is helping hotels manage their energy spend see page 21 while Hotel 360 enables us to manage information about our hotel owners and work more closely with them to open new hotels successfully and improve the performance of existing ones.
It also helps hotel owners attract more bookings by ensuring the content on their websites is regularly updated.
The reason we lead the industry in so many areas and can achieve these efficiencies is thanks to the talented people who work for us.
Were recognised as trendsetters and ranked 117th in Information Weeks annual list of the most innovative companies, a significant achievement on a list that includes the likes of Microsoft and HP.
This also reflects the way we build systems with the capacity to deal with todays demands and the flexibility to support the marketing needs of the future.
HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com On screen, on target 15 We will recruit 350general Websites in13 languages managers in the next three years.
Interactive local information On the go with mobile Our interactive Wallboard, situated in the lobby of some of our hotels, makes it quick Youre never far away from IHG, even and easy for guests who want to be self-sufficient to find out information about local when youre out and about.
Many of our attractions and promotions, restaurants, theatres, how to book a taxi or which room guests are booking with us through their their meeting is in.
It also provides news feeds and stock market updates and guests phones.
com staying near an airport can check the times of flight arrivals and departures.
and walk through the easy steps to make bookings, view reservations or check their Priority Club account.
The highest honour InterContinental Hotels & Resorts website, www.
com, has been Reaching guests through awarded the highest honour by the 2009 Interactive Media Awards, winning the Facebook Best in Class Award for the Hotel Resort category.
We scored 480 out of a maximum possible score of 500 and beat off competition from 113 other hotel and resort entries Almost 50,000 fans on the worlds around the world.
most popular social networking site.
Our hotels have created more than 1,000 IHG goes Google pages to help them develop long-term relationships with social networking In October 2009, we partnered with customers, who tend to spend more Google in a global advertising campaign money and have greater brand loyalty.
that named some of their most favoured Fans are encouraged to post content, customers.
It was launched to persuade such as photos and videos of places companies to use Google applications they visited while staying, restaurant to provide better service to customers.
We use Google applications to provide our guests with more information and a Some of IHGs top sites on Facebook better online experience.
Google Maps include InterContinental: Holiday Inn City helps guests make more informed Stars, Egypt: Crowne Plaza Milan City decisions about their stay at our hotels, and Hotel Indigo Atlanta Midtown.
local attractions and dining experiences.
They can also check a hotels location in relation to places of interest and book a room through a tool that uses Google Earth and is linked directly to our reservations system.
There are over 1,000 Facebook pages on our hotels
