18 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 87% We ranked 3rd of our people rate in the FTSE for our corporate IHGs reputation as excellent.
Corporate reputation To deliver Great Hotels Guests Love we need to act in a responsible manner.
Corporate governance, risk management, health and safety, internal assurance and corporate responsibility CR are the foundations of the way we operate and build our reputation.
A solid corporate reputation is Award-winning corporate governance essential to our core purpose Many factors combined to make the need for a dynamic governance framework more Great Hotels Guests Love crucial than ever to our global operations in 2009.
These included an increased focus and our operations around the on the ever-expanding corporate governance framework for listed companies, world.
Its equally important external reviews of corporate governance and the financial crisis.
that we provide a safe and Implementing and upholding robust and responsible business processes and secure environment for our policies are fundamental to the way we conduct our business.
Making sure we have guests, employees and visitors, the right processes and policies in place is ultimately the responsibility of the IHG both in our hotels and our Board of Directors, supported by the Executive Committee.
In addition, the Audit, corporate offices.
For these Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Disclosure Committees, reasons, our practices and and our Legal, Company Secretariat, Internal Audit, Risk Management and Corporate policies are designed to help us Responsibility teams all play a part.
All of our practices are designed to preserve our strong corporate reputation and make sure we act consistently in our day-to-day operations.
To that end, we have George Turner several policies in place, including our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Executive Vice President, Competition and Bribery policies.
Our employees also work to guidelines on the General Counsel and environment, support for communities and human rights.
As our Code of Ethics Company Secretary points out, IHGs reputation is built upon the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders.
This underpins our aspiration to be one of the best companies in the world.
In 2009, our sound corporate governance was recognised in a corporate governance survey of the top 100 companies listed on the London Stock Exchange conducted by consultancy firm Resources Global Professionals IHG was ranked third.
Safe hotels and offices Providing and supporting a safe and secure environment for our guests, employees and visitors is the primary focus of our Global Risk Management team.
The team evaluates the policies and procedures which underpin our risk management system, operating a range of health and safety and security measures, including threat assessment, crisis management and business continuity planning.
They also provide training in all of these areas to hotel and corporate employees.
We want our guests to feel safe and supported wherever they stay.
Our online Risk Training Centre contains policies, standards, implementation guidance, procedures and training materials, giving all of our people the expertise they need to tackle any issues that may arise.
There are over 620,000 reviews of our hotels on TripAdvisor HOW WE OPERATE I m p r o v e r o t i more on the web: www.
com Corporate reputation 19 Our IHG Academies train We signed the worlds biggest, 5000 $1.6mdonated to community Holiday Inn, with 1,000 rooms, students per year see page 17. initiatives and charitable causes in 2009. in Moscow, Russia.
Photo by Wen Kai Chen, taken at Holiday Inn Lido Beijing, Peoples Republic of China Our Stay Real action team.
Photo by Nadja Wuntke, taken at InterContinental Berlin, Germany The InterContinental Berlin at the starting line just before the IAAF 12 World Championship Athletics begins.
Managing risk Acting responsibly A flexible approach to assurance Having an accurate and up-to-date We underlined our commitment to Global Risk Register is another vital CR by setting up a CR Committee By reviewing key systems and control aspect of maintaining good governance in February 2009.
Members are activities across IHG, our Global Internal practice and our corporate reputation.
appointed by our Board and comprise Audit GIA team plays a pivotal role in The Global Risk Management function two Non-Executive Directors, Jennifer ensuring we follow the procedures that reports twice a year to the Executive Laing Chairman and Ralph Kugler.
help us sustain our corporate reputation.
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Members of the IHG Executive The team provides independent, objective Board on the major risks that may affect Committee regularly attend the assurance and advice to improve the our business.
To try and avoid these risks CR Committees meetings.
way we manage major risks and make occurring, we assign responsibility for The Committee reviews and advises the our internal control and governance each risk, monitor them and put the Board on IHGs CR objectives and strategy.
appropriate mitigating actions in place.
It considers a range of issues, including In a constantly changing business our CR-related policies, approach to environment we need the flexibility sustainable development and CR best to provide assurance when and where practice, impact on the environment, its needed.
GIAs annual work plan and community and stakeholder is prioritised to cover key strategic, REVIEW IDENTIFY & engagement see pages 20 and 21. operational, financial and information RISK PRIORITISE PROCESS RISK technology risks and includes assurance over processes in our Keeping information secure GROWTH REPORT ON global hotel operations.
QUANTIFY PROFIT With operations spanning over 100 GOVERNANCE RISKS CONTINUITY AND CULTURE The GIA team takes a dynamic approach countries and territories, privacy and to assurance that is responsive to new data protection is a crucial area for IHG.
DEVELOP IMPLEMENT RESPONSE and emerging risks, whilst maintaining Our privacy programme is designed to AND TEST PLAN AND assurance over existing risks to contribute SOLUTIONS keep customer information confidential to the achievement of IHGs objectives.
and to comply with legal and regulatory This approach is particularly important requirements in all the jurisdictions in at a time of economic uncertainty.
We use the findings of internal audits to As a public company, we also need improve controls and procedures on an to keep information secure and ensure ongoing basis.
Management actions are the accuracy of financial reporting agreed in response to recommendations to investors and the market.
Our and these are followed up to make sure information security programme satisfactory control is implemented and assures confidentiality, integrity and maintained.
Our GIA team regularly the availability of information, including reports to the Audit Committee to ensure financial data, intellectual property, independence and strives to achieve other essential business information global best practice in the field of and personal data.
