70 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements 1 Exchange rates 2 Segmental information The results of operations have been translated into US dollars The management of the Groups operations, excluding Central at the average rates of exchange for the year.
In the case of functions, is organised within three geographical regions: sterling, the translation rate is $1 0.64 2008 $1 0.55.
In the Americas: case of the euro, the translation rate is $1 0.72 2008 $1 0.68.
Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : and Assets and liabilities have been translated into US dollars at the Asia Pacific.
rates of exchange on the last day of the period.
In the case of sterling, the translation rate is $1 0.62 2008 $1 0.69.
In the These, together with Central functions, comprise the Groups four case of the euro, the translation rate is $1 0.69 2008 $1 0.71. reportable segments.
The Asia Pacific reportable segment comprises the aggregation of two operating segments, Greater China and Asia Australasia.
Central functions include costs of global functions, including technology, sales and marketing, finance, human resources and corporate services: revenue arises principally from technology fee income.
Central liabilities include the loyalty programme liability and the cumulative short-term System Fund surplus which were allocated to the geographical segments prior to the adoption of IFRS 8.
Each of the geographical regions derives its revenues from either franchising, managing or owning hotels and additional segmental disclosures are provided accordingly.
Management monitors the operating results of the geographical regions and Central functions separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segmental performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss and is measured consistently with operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements, excluding exceptional items.
Group financing and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to reportable segments.
