THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Remuneration report 49 3 Base salary and benefits Variable compensation is based on objectives linked to the The salary for each Executive Director is reviewed annually and is Companys strategy: based on both individual performance and on relevant competitive market data.
Internal relativities and salary levels in the wider Measure Alignment with strategy employment market are also taken into account.
Base salary is Short Term: the only element of remuneration which is pensionable.
In addition, EBIT Provides focus on the core benefits are provided to Executive Directors in accordance with operating inputs influenced by local market practice.
management, namely rooms growth, RevPAR, and cost In assessing levels of pay and benefits, IHG analyses those offered control by different groups of comparator companies.
These groups are Individual Overall Provides focus on key chosen having regard to participants: Performance Rating OPR performance objectives and size market capitalisation, turnover, profits and the number leadership competencies of people employed: relative to the individual role diversity and complexity of business: Long Term: geographical spread of business: and EPS growth Ensures delivery of a growing profit base over the long term relevance to the hotel industry.
TSR relative to Dow Aligned with our goal to be the In reaching its decisions, the Committee also considers the Jones World Hotels index worlds best hotel company remuneration levels and approaches provided to the wider IHG workforce.
The OPR is linked to personal performance rating and key Executive Directors salaries are shown in the table below: performance objectives KPOs linked to the corporate strategy: 2010 salary 2009 salary Individual Performance Measures for OPR Example KPOs Andrew Cosslett 826,000 802,000 Financial returns Total gross revenue and system Richard Solomons 523,000 510,000 contribution revenue Our people Annual employee engagement 4 Annual Bonus Plan ABP scores Structure in 2009 Guest experience Relaunch of Holiday Inn Awards under the ABP require the achievement of challenging Global RevPAR growth and performance goals before target bonus is payable.
RevPAR growth ahead of market Responsible business Tracking of reduced water, The maximum bonus an Executive Director or Executive Committee waste and energy consumption member can receive in any one year is 200% of salary.
Achievement of target performance results in a bonus of 115% of salary.
Half of any bonus earned is compulsorily deferred in the form of shares The following table shows the split of fixed and variable for three years.
No matching shares are awarded by the Company.
compensation for the Executive Directors, assuming target performance is achieved where applicable : For 2009, awards under the ABP were linked to individual performance 30% of total award and EBIT 70% of total award.
Andrew Richard In order to increase focus on cost savings and margins, net annual Director Cosslett Solomons rooms additions was removed as an ABP performance measure Fixed pay 30% 30% for 2009 as outlined in last years Report.
Individual performance Short-term variable pay 35% 35% was measured by the achievement of specific key performance Long-term variable pay 35% 35% objectives that are linked directly to the Groups strategic priorities, and an assessment of performance against leadership The Committee also reviews the balance of fixed and variable competencies and behaviours.
remuneration provided to the wider management population, to ensure these ratios are appropriate, given the relativities to the The individual performance measures comprise several factors Executive Directors and to market practice.
linked to strategic objectives, a selection of which is set out in the Individual Performance Measures for OPR and Example KPOs table on this page.
