HOW WE OPERATE Loyalty programme Priority Club Rewards, the largest in the industry, over 48 million members Reservations systems 10 call centres around the world covering 29 languages more on the web: www.
com Our business model, Our global scale and scope and Statement from the IAHI 7 Our global scale and scope The IHG system brings guests to our hotels.
Its a key driver of the decision that owners make when they choose to develop a hotel under Working together during one of our brands.
unprecedented times Our system includes our marketing campaigns, global call centres, 2009 was indeed a difficult websites, sales force and loyalty programme, as well as our global hotel year, unprecedented and very distribution and scale.
By focusing on the biggest markets where we challenging for franchisees can make our scale really count we concentrate our resources on and IHG alike.
The benefits opportunities that provide the greatest return.
of our close relationship with IHG are abundantly clear.
We collaborated and we challenged, never losing sight of our collective goals and shared interest.
We shared our need for revenue-growth programmes in the first quarter and promotions were rolled System funds out in record time.
IHG also Annual system recognised the owners funds totalling need for financial relief from c. $1 billion standards that didnt impact the guest experience and provided the flexibility necessary to control costs.
Our most lasting achievement, one that will resonate for many years to come, is the Holiday Inn relaunch.
Our IHGs system owners stepped up to the Brand portfolio Web presence delivers 68% plate and demonstrated their 7 hotel brands Network of global sites commitment to reinvigorating of total rooms covering all across 13 languages major segments this iconic brand.
Neither our revenue owners nor IHG faltered in the relaunch effort and, as a result, nearly 1,700 updated Holiday Inns were introduced by the end of 2009.
Market coverage We enter another challenging Leadership year confident that the positions in 6 largest partnership between IHG and hotel markets, more the IAHI will continue to pave than any other hotel the way for greater success.
company Mark Carrier Chairman, IAHI, the Owners Association and Senior Vice President of B. F. Sauls Hotel Division For further information go to www.
org Scale 4,438 hotels, over 130 million room nights per annum Sales force Global sales team of more than 8,000 professionals
