48 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Remuneration report continued 2 Remuneration policy and structure IHGs overall remuneration is intended to: In reaching its decisions, the Committee takes into account attract and retain high-quality executives in an environment a number of factors, including the relationship between where compensation levels are based on global market practice: remuneration and risk, strategic direction and affordability.
Performance-related measures are chosen carefully to ensure a drive aligned focus of the senior executive team and reward the strong link between reward and underlying financial performance, achievement of business targets and key strategic objectives: and emphasis is placed on achievement of key strategic priorities.
align rewards of executives with returns to shareholders: The normal policy for all Executive Directors and Executive support equitable treatment between members of the same Committee members is that, using target or expected value executive team: and calculations, their performance-related incentives will equate to facilitate global assignments and relocation.
approximately 70% of total annual remuneration excluding The Committee believes that it is important to reward pensions and benefits.
management, including the Executive Directors, for targets The Company recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited achieved, provided those targets are stretching and aligned with to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that shareholders interests.
such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, and benefit IHGs remuneration structure for senior executives places a strong the Company.
Executive Directors are, therefore, permitted to emphasis on performance-related reward.
The individual elements accept one non-executive appointment in addition to any positions are designed to provide the appropriate balance between fixed where the Director is appointed as the Groups representative, remuneration and variable risk reward, linked to both the subject to Board approval, as long as this is not, in the reasonable performance of the Group and the achievements of the individual.
opinion of the Board, likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
Executive Approximately two-thirds of variable reward is delivered in the form Directors are generally authorised to retain the fees received.
of shares, to enhance alignment with shareholders.
Current Executive Directors hold no Non-Executive Directorships of other companies.
Summarised below are the individual elements of remuneration provided to Executive Directors and other Executive Committee members and the purpose of each element.
Element Maximum value Purpose and alignment with strategy Base Salary n a To recognise market value of role and the individuals skill, cash performance and experience 1 Annual Bonus 100% of base salary To drive and reward annual performance of individuals cash and teams on both financial and non-financial metrics, and to align employee objectives with those of the Group 1 Deferred Annual Bonus 100% of base salary To align short-term and long-term reward with returns to shares shareholders 2 Long Term Incentive Plan 205% of base salary To drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS shares and TSR performance, aligned with the interests of shareholders Pension and benefits n a To provide a competitive level of benefits, providing short-term varied protection and long-term savings opportunities 1 Combined Annual Bonus award cash and shares is subject to a maximum cap of 175% of base salary in 2010.
2 Until 2009, maximum awards were normally granted at 270% of salary.
In 2009 and 2010, maximum awards are 205% of base salary.
