114 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Investor information Website and electronic communication Share dealing services As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost and Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
For more environmental impact of producing and distributing printed information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer a documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report and telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview Dealing, which Annual Review have been made available to the majority of provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling shares.
shareholders through the Companys website For telephone dealings, call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and www.
com investors under shareholder centre reports.
4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log on to www.
co. uk Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll that may be held at the forthcoming Annual Individual Savings Accounts ISAs General Meeting.
Shareholders who hold their shares through Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares.
For further information please CREST may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244. appointment service, by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
ShareGift Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, IHG is currently operating a promotion for discounted hotel stays the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be subject to availability for registered shareholders, through a obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org or dedicated, controlled access website.
For further details please by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. contact the Company Secretariat at the registered office on 01895 512 000 or email companysecretariat@ihg.
com Shareholder security Changes to the base cost of IHG shares Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based since April 2003 up to December 2009, for UK Capital Gains brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website at often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK www.
com investors under shareholder centre tax investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler information.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Financial Services Authority website Corporate Responsibility Report www.
uk IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report for 2009 covering progress on a range of environmental, social and Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses community issues.
This is available on our corporate website and will be included in Company mailings.
can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility American Depositary Receipts ADRs Registrar The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and of a shareholders change of address and for information on a traded under the symbol IHG.
range of shareholder services please contact the Companys Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
All enquiries regarding Registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2132 UK callers ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed or 44 121 415 7034 non-UK callers.
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. our authorised depositary bank details shown on page 116. Dividend services The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for Form 20-F shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the dividends.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application and the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be information booklet are available on the Companys website found on the Companys website www.
com investors under shareholder centre dividends.
shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into at www.
shtml a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
Overseas shareholders can have their dividends paid direct to their bank account or by cheque in another major currency.
Please contact our Registrar for further details.
Charges are payable for this service.
If you think that you have out of date dividend warrants or outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar for further information.
