112 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Glossary Adjusted excluding the effect of exceptional items, IFRS International Financial Reporting gain loss on disposal of assets and any Standards.
Interest rate swap an agreement to exchange fixed for Average daily rate room revenue divided by the number of floating interest rate streams or vice room nights sold.
Also known as average versa on a notional principal.
Management contract a contract to operate a hotel on behalf Basic earnings per profit available for IHG equity holders of the hotel owner.
ordinary share divided by the weighted average number Market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
by multiplying its share price by the Capital expenditure purchases of property, plant and number of shares in issue.
equipment, intangible assets and associate Midscale hotels in the three four star category investments.
eg Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
Cash-generating unit a portfolio of similar assets that are subject Net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
to the same economic and commercial influences.
Occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed as a percentage of rooms Comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that that are available.
have traded in all months in both financial years being compared.
Principally excludes Pipeline hotels rooms that will enter the Groups new hotels, hotels closed for major system at a future date.
A new property refurbishment and hotels sold in either only enters the pipeline once a contract of the two years.
has been signed and the appropriate fees paid.
In rare circumstances, a hotel will Contingencies liabilities that are contingent upon the not open for reasons such as the financing occurrence of one or more uncertain being withdrawn.
Revenue per room revenue divided by the number of Continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued.
available room room nights that are available can be Currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, RevPAR mathematically derived from occupancy each denominated in a different currency, rate multiplied by average daily rate.
for an agreed period of time.
Room count number of rooms franchised, managed, Derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, owned or leased by IHG.
the price of which is derived from an Room revenue revenue generated from the sale of underlying asset, index or rate.
Discontinued operations operations that have been sold and assets Royalty revenues room revenue that a franchisee pays to the classified as held for sale when the results brand owner for use of the brand name.
relate to a separate line of business, geographical area of operations, or where Subsidiary undertaking a company over which the Group exercises there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose control.
of a separate line of business or System size the number of hotels rooms franchised, geographical area of operations.
managed, owned or leased by IHG.
Exceptional items items which are disclosed separately Technology income income received from hotels under because of their size or nature.
franchise and management agreements Extended stay hotels designed for guests staying for for the use of IHGs proprietary periods of time longer than a few nights reservations system.
and tending to have a higher proportion of Total gross revenue total room revenue from franchised hotels suites than normal hotels eg Staybridge and total hotel revenue from managed, Suites, Candlewood Suites.
Franchisee operator who uses a brand under licence Total Shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a from the brand owner eg IHG.
Return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference Franchisor brand owner eg IHG who licenses brands to the beginning and ending share price, for use by operators.
and assuming that gross dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested Goodwill the difference between the consideration to purchase additional units of the equity.
given for a business and the total of the fair values of the separable assets and UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted liabilities comprising that business.
Hedging the reduction of risk, normally in relation Working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and to foreign currency or interest rate payables of a trading nature, excluding movements, by making offsetting financing items such as corporate taxation.
