USEFUL INFORMATION Contacts and Forward-looking statements 117 Forward-looking statements Both the Annual Report and Financial the risks involved with the Groups reliance on the Statements 2009 and the Annual Review and reputation of its brands and the protection of its Summary Financial Statement 2009 contain intellectual property rights: the risks related to certain forward-looking statements as defined identifying, securing and retaining franchise and under US legislation Section 21E of the management agreements: the effect of political Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to and economic developments: the organisational the financial condition, results of operations and capability to manage changes in key personnel business of InterContinental Hotels Group and and senior management: events that adversely certain plans and objectives of the Board of impact domestic or international travel: the Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC risks involved in the Groups reliance upon its with respect thereto.
Such statements include, proprietary reservations system and increased but are not limited to, statements made in the competition in reservations infrastructure: the Chairmans statement and in the Chief risks in relation to technology and systems: the Executives review.
These forward-looking risks of the hotel industry supply and demand statements can be identified by the fact that they cycle: the possible lack of selected development do not relate only to historical or current facts.
opportunities: the risks related to corporate Forward-looking statements often use words responsibility: the risk of litigation: the risks such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, associated with the Groups ability to maintain intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of adequate insurance: the risks associated with similar meaning.
These statements are based the Groups ability to borrow and satisfy debt on assumptions and assessments made by covenants: compliance with data privacy InterContinental Hotels Groups management in regulations: the risks related to information light of their experience and their perception of security: and the risks associated with funding historical trends, current conditions, expected the defined benefits under its pension plans.
future developments and other factors they The main factors that could affect the business believe to be appropriate.
and financial results are described in the By their nature, forward-looking statements are Business Review of the Annual Report and inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk Financial Statements 2009 and also in any and uncertainty.
There are a number of factors Annual Report of InterContinental Hotels that could cause actual results and Group PLC on Form 20-F. developments to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: Designed and produced by Likemind www.
com Printed by Royle Print This Report is printed on 9lives 80 Silk which is made up of 60% FSC post-consumer recycled fibre, 20% pre-consumer recycled fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre from FSC managed forests.
Our printer is also FSC and Carbon Neutral accredited.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 make a booking at www.
com IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 IHG in brief Overview Page 2 Headlines Every great company has a clear understanding of what its trying to do.
IHGs core purpose is creating Great Hotels Record number Guests Love with everything we do focused of hotels opened on the guest, or supporting the people who serve our guests.
439 find out more on page 4 We operate hotels in three different ways Page 3 as a franchisor, a manager and on an Chairmans statement owned and leased basis.
find out more on page 6 We operate seven leading hotel brands InterContinental, Crowne Plaza, Hotel Indigo, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, Staybridge Suites and Candlewood Suites.
find out more on page 8 We manage the worlds largest hotel Page 4 loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, Chief Executives review which has 48 million members worldwide.
find out more on page 12 We have more guest rooms in our system than any other hotel company in the world almost 650,000 rooms in over 4,400 hotels in over 100 countries and territories.
find out more on page 22 We are structured around three regions: The Americas: Europe, Middle East and Africa: and Asia Pacific.
find out more on page 23 Once again, we asked our employees to take their own pictures and capture what Great Hotels Guests Love means to them.
Youll find some of the best photographs we received featured here, marked by the heart icon above.
OVERVIEW HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES 1 How we operate Where we operate Facts and figures Page 6 Page 22 Page 32 Our business model Around the world Summary financial statement Page 7 Page 23 Our global scale and scope The Americas Page 36 Our senior Page 7 leadership team Statement from the IAHI, the Owners Association Page 38 Summary Page 8 Directors report World class brands Page 39 Page 10 Corporate governance The relaunch of Holiday Inn Page 40 Page 26 Summary Europe, Middle East remuneration report and Africa Page 44 Investor information Page 12 Page 45 Guest experience Financial calendar and Contacts Page 14 On screen, on target Page 16 Our people Page 29 Asia Pacific Page 18 Corporate reputation Page 20 Responsible business
