GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group statement of cash flows and Accounting policies 65 Accounting policies General information The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation is Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2009 applied prospectively from 1 January 2009 and has not impacted the were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the effectiveness of the Groups net investment hedging arrangements.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC There has been no requirement to restate prior year comparatives the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in as a result of adopting any of the above.
Presentational currency Summary of significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars following a management decision to change the Basis of preparation reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
The change was The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared made to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollarIFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in linked currencies.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 Changes in accounting policies on transition to IFRS and this reserve has been re-presented on With effect from 1 January 2009, the Group has implemented the basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
International Accounting Standard IAS 1 Revised Presentation Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs, held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant and Cancellations, Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
Disclosures, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretation IFRIC 13 The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United Investment in a Foreign Operation.
Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose primary activity is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements has resulted denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
in the introduction of the Group statement of changes in equity as a primary financial statement.
The revised standard also introduces Basis of consolidation the Group statement of comprehensive income, presented either in The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements a single statement or two linked statements.
The Group has of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
adopted the two statement approach.
All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs requires capitalisation of The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, consolidated for the period during which they were under the construction or production of a qualifying asset from 1 January Groups control.
The Groups previous policy was to expense all borrowing Foreign currencies costs as incurred.
In accordance with the transitional provisions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the of IAS 23, the revised standard has been adopted on a prospective functional currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates basis and applied to projects commencing after 1 January 2009. of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated No borrowing costs have been capitalised in the year.
in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions at the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the and Cancellations clarifies the definitions of vesting conditions and period.
All foreign exchange differences arising on translation are prescribes the treatment for cancelled awards.
The amendment recognised in the income statement except on foreign currency has not impacted the Groups financial performance or position.
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
The additional and revised disclosures are presented in note 23.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
ruling on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of The Group has concluded that the reportable segments determined foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business segments of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on previously reported under IAS 14.
On adoption of IFRS 8, certain the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation liabilities have been reclassified to Central functions as explained reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative in note 2. amount recognised in the currency translation reserve relating IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes requires customer loyalty to that particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain credits to be accounted for as a separate component of a sales or loss on disposal.
The adoption of IFRIC 13 has not had a material impact on the financial statements.
66 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Management contracts Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or and any impairment.
management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction contract entered into.
The value of management contracts is of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to prepare for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the 50 years on a straight-line basis.
All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity Other intangible assets incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts and franchise agreements are capitalised and amortised over Borrowing costs relating to assets where construction commenced the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a straighton or after 1 January 2009 are capitalised.
Borrowing costs relating line basis.
to projects commencing before this date are expensed.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment not be recoverable.
are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful Associates lives, namely: An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value Associates are accounted for using the equity method unless the is reassessed annually.
associate is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when share of post-acquisition profits and losses.
When the Groups events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of further losses cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred values exceed estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cashlegal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated Financial assets future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Management determines the classification of financial assets on initial recognition and they are subsequently On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations held at amortised cost loans and receivables or fair value of property, plant and equipment at deemed cost as permitted available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest on loans and by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate method Reporting Standards.
and is recognised in the income statement as interest income.
Goodwill Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Following initial recognition, goodwill Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
in the income statement as other operating income and expenses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing Financial assets are tested for impairment at each period-end carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable date.
If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the amounts.
difference between original cost and fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the extent of any cumulative Intangible assets loss recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the Software income statement.
Acquired software licences and software developed in-house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring Financial liabilities to use the specific software.
Costs are amortised over estimated Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the useful lives of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability expires, is discharged Internally generated development costs are expensed unless or cancelled.
forecast revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, at which time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies 67 Inventories Bank and other borrowings Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction Trade receivables costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less charges, including the transaction costs and any discount or provision for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% premium on issue, are charged to the income statement using of the previous months aged receivables balances which are more the effective interest rate method.
Adjustments to the policy may be made due to specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date longer considered probable.
The carrying amount of the receivable is more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
in the provision are recognised in the income statement within cost Derivative financial instruments and hedging of sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
for in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
The Cash and cash equivalents Groups detailed accounting policies with respect to hedging Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
instruments are set out in note 22.
Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of the hedging arrangement is Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments maintained throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
Any with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily ineffective element of a hedge arrangement is recognised in convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant financial income or expenses.
Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps is In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are taken to financial income or expenses on a net basis over the term shown net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand of the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the hedging and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
Assets held for sale Foreign exchange gains and losses on currency derivatives are Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified recognised in financial income and expenses unless they form as held for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered part of effective hedge relationships.
principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is highly probable.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
Taxes Current tax Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior classified as held for sale.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from Trade payables or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates and Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted nominal value.
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Self insurance Deferred tax The Group is self-insured for various insurable risks including Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of general liability, workers compensation and employee medical temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value and dental coverage.
Insurance reserves include projected of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital allowances, settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into and actuarial data.
replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties and other short-term temporary differences.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision at the end of each reporting period.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
68 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Accounting policies continued Retirement benefits Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, Defined contribution plans including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
income statement as they fall due.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and beverages are sold.
Defined benefit plans Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are Share-based payments measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the measured by reference to fair value at the date at which the right current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent to the shares is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference between valuer using option pricing models.
the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together is the amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which financial position as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised any performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the when the employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the some point during the life of the plan or on its wind up.
If a refund award vesting date.
would be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax.
The income statement charge for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition in benefits vests.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of equity-settled awards differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised Leases in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and are updated for material transactions and other material changes Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of rates up to the end of the reporting period.
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the Revenue recognition leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease Revenue is the gross inflow of economic benefits received and payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction receivable by the Group on its own account where those inflows of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement result in increases in equity.
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are management fees: owned and leased properties and other depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations, including asset and the lease term.
Disposal of non-current assets Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain or loss taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the on disposal on completion of the sales process.
In determining normal course of business and recognised when services have whether the gain or loss should be recorded, the Group considers been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition whether it: of revenues of the Group.
has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree associated with asset ownership: Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a with asset ownership: and percentage of room revenue.
Revenue is recognised when earned can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
and realised or realisable under the terms of the agreement.
Discontinued operations Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels sold or those Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
classified as held for sale when the results relate to a separate Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a line of business, geographical area of operations, or where there percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue or geographical area of operations.
is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies 69 Exceptional items Loyalty programme The hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club The Group discloses certain financial information both including Rewards, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel and excluding exceptional items.
The presentation of information assessments, during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded hotel excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other the underlying trading performance of the Group and provides benefits.
The future redemption liability is included in trade and consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
other payables and is estimated using eventual redemption rates Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or determined by actuarial methods and points values.
Actuarial nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to gains and losses on the future redemption liability are borne by assess underlying trends in financial performance.
Exceptional the System Funds and any resulting changes in the liability would items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses correspondingly adjust the amount of short-term timing on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, differences held in the Group statement of financial position.
restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
Retirement and other post-employment benefits the cost Use of accounting estimates and judgements of defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment The preparation of financial statements requires management benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the mortality rates and future pension increases.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting Tax provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law different assumptions and conditions.
and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
In addition, deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax attributes to The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: against which they can be utilised.
Judgement is required as to Trade receivables a provision for impairment of trade receivables the amount that can be recognised based on the likely amount is made on the basis of historical experience and other factors and timing of future taxable profits, taking into account expected considered relevant by management.
Deferred tax balances are dependent on Impairment the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired managements expectations regarding the manner and timing on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of of recovery of the related assets.
Other non-current assets, including property, plant Other the Group also makes estimates and judgements in the and equipment, are tested for impairment if there are indicators valuation of franchise and management agreements acquired of impairment.
Impairment testing requires an estimate of future on asset disposals, the valuation of financial assets classified as cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate and, in the available-for-sale, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims case of hotels, an assessment of recoverable amount based on and in the valuation of share-based payment costs.
System Funds In addition to management or franchise fees, New standards and interpretations hotels within the IHG system pay cash assessments which are The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and collected by IHG for specific use within the System Funds the interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Funds.
Under the governance of the IAHI, the Owners Association, financial statements.
They have not been adopted early by the IHG operates the Funds on behalf of hotel owners with the Group and will be adopted in accordance with the effective date.
objective of driving revenues for their hotels.
The Funds are used The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these to pay for marketing, the Priority Club loyalty programme and the standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the global reservation system.
The Funds are planned to operate at Groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendment in the Group statement of financial position within working capital.
Effective from 1 January 2010 As all Fund assessments are designated for specific purposes and IFRS 3R Business Combinations do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition Effective from 1 July 2009 criteria as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and therefore the revenue and expenses of the Funds are not included Discontinued Operations Amendment in the Group income statement.
Effective from 1 July 2009 The assets and liabilities relating to the Funds are included in the IAS 27R Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position Effective from 1 July 2009 because the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the Priority Measurement Amendment Club Rewards liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits Effective from 1 July 2009 and any receivables and payables related to the Funds.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners Further information on the Funds is included in note 33.
Effective from 1 July 2009 Note: the effective dates are in respect of accounting periods beginning on or after the date shown and so will be effective for the Group from 1 January 2010.
