26 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Europe, Middle East and Africa Overview PERFORMANCE HEADLINES By balancing cost control against investment in our brands Revenue per available room and resources, the business stayed on track and were ready RevPAR for the upturn, reports Kirk Kinsell.
Hotels Rooms Hotels open 695 120,296 down 14.8% Development pipeline 152 31,461 Revenues Focused on our brands Despite trading pressures, we managed our brands better and down 23% to $397m limited the RevPAR decline across the region to 14.8 per cent with the UK faring relatively well.
Operating profit Thanks to our scale, and the impact of the Holiday Inn relaunch, we attracted new investors despite the scarcity of funding.
The years new hotel signings included the first Holiday Inn Express at London Heathrows Terminal 5 which will be the down 26% to $127m largest Holiday Inn Express in Europe.
And we relaunched the largest Holiday Inn in the world the Holiday Inn Kensington Before exceptional items.
Guest experience Our guest satisfaction scores across all brands rose in the year.
Thats hard to achieve in a downturn, especially when youre taking costs out of the business, and it meant working closely with employees and owners to use our resources better.
Germany There were some signs of recovery in Western Europe, especially in Germany where our owner relationships are developing well and the domestic market is growing.
During the year, we signed eight new hotels and opened the Holiday Inn Express Hamburg City Centre.
Thanks to the Holiday Inn relaunch, we shook hands with Foremost Hospitality to develop a further 14 Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels in key I think well look back on German cities by 2016.
We took Middle East measures to ride out In Dubai, we opened the award-winning InterContinental the recession while Residence Suites at Festival City in July.
Though swine flu fears keeping our focus on hit Saudi Arabia and trading was generally tough region-wide, strategy.
We continued we opened a Staybridge Suites and Crowne Plaza in time for to relaunch Holiday Inn, the Grand Prix in Abu Dhabi and a new Holiday Inn on the banks of Jordans Dead Sea.
won sponsorship of the London 2012 Olympic and Russia Paralympic Games, signed We kept to our strategy to expand in and around some significant deals Russia where theres a growing domestic and outbound market.
We now have 13 hotels in the and worked closer with Russia pipeline, including the InterContinental our owners than ever.
Tverskaya, Moscow, scheduled to open in 2010.
Kirk Kinsell We signed a landmark deal to open the worlds President, Europe, largest, 1,000-room, Holiday Inn in Moscow and the Ukraines first InterContinental hotel opened Middle East and Africa in Kiev in August.
Hotel Indigo, London Paddington, UK WHERE WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Europe, Middle East and Africa 27 We signed our We now have 5,000 first3 8 hotels new rooms will open in the UK Holiday Inn Express in the next three to four years.
overview continued United Kingdom One of our fastest-growing markets, the UK, and London in particular, proved more resilient than expected.
The InterContinental London Park Lane performed particularly well.
The UK benefited from the strength of the euro against the pound, helping us to offer more value for money to inbound guests.
During the year, we opened four new hotels, signed a further 12, opened our second Staybridge Suites and rebranded 56 Holiday Inn hotels.
Furthermore, we were chosen to support the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games see page 28.
Diversity, winners of Britains Got Talent 2009, perform at the relaunch of the Holiday Inn Kensington Forum, London, UK Splendid signing Smart moves improve Moscow to host the for Westminster performance biggest Holiday Inn We signed a 20-year management Like all hotel operators, we faced a rocky The worlds biggest Holiday Inn, with contract with Splendid Hotel Group year.
Unlike some others, we worked an investment of more than $100 million for a new 254-room InterContinental transparently with owners to get the from the Crocus Group, is set to open in the centre of London.
best performance for us all.
The InterContinental Westminster will We tackled the downturn in two ways: Under a 20-year management contract, open in late 2011, in time for the London working together with hotel owners it will be located in Crocus City in the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
to reduce costs without damaging our fast-developing Krasnogorsk area brands reputations: and helping our of Moscow.
The hotel will be the second partners manage their cash flow and InterContinental hotel in the UKs This new Holiday Inn will have meeting capital expenditure plans.
InterContinental London Park facilities of 2,500 sq m, three restaurants Lane was first opened in 1975, and We also worked with owners to track and a 1,200 sq m health club.
Crocus re-opened following a 76 million trends in our hotel costs, identifying City is a retail and leisure complex transformation in 2006 to celebrate where investment should best be over 90 hectares, with two trade the brands 60th anniversary.
directed or reduced in future.
and entertainment venues, three exhibition pavilions and an upmarket After taking hard decisions about some shopping centre.
corporate roles mid-year, we then doubled the number of people in our Hotel Performance Support team and created a Hotel Services team to offer more support and expertise to owners.
InterContinental Westminster, London, UK 4 Hotel Indigo properties in the pipeline 28 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 2nd InterContinental Residence Suites, Festival City, Dubai named Worlds Leading InterContinental hotel New Hotel at the World Travel Awards 2009. signed for London.
Europe, Middle East and Africa continued Photo by Nick Aristodemou, taken at Crowne Plaza London Heathrow, UK The UK stopped but we carried on.
Park Lane is the business Shaping the political agenda Olympics shine a torch InterContinental London Park Lane has With revenues in decline and costs under on Holiday Inn been recognised by Cond Nast Traveller the microscope, were talking to the UK The London Organising Committee of the magazine as the top internationally Government about a number of issues Olympic Games and Paralympic Games branded business hotel in the UK.
facing our industry, putting hotel owners LOCOG chose Holiday Inn and Holiday under significant financial pressure.
The hotel was placed fourth overall in Inn Express as their Official Hotel the magazines travel awards as their Working with Louis Woodcock, Chairman Services Provider for London 2012.
We favourite venue for doing business in of the EMEA committee of the IAHI, our will help design and run the Athletes the UK.
dialogue with the UK Government and Village in Stratford.
And from now until other parties is well-informed and the games, well be welcoming LOCOG With business bookings hit hard by the under way.
With the appointment Olympic and Paralympic officials, staff recession, InterContinental hotels have of the European Union President, well and athletes across all our brands.
This responded by offering better value be looking to talk further afield in 2010, comes at a perfect time for the brand, business meetings.
Nearly 60 hotels particularly on the varying standards which will complete its worldwide in the Europe, Middle East and Africa of safety and security for hotel guests relaunch by the end of 2010. region now provide Meetings Options, in European countries.
a package that allows planners to choose cost and service options that The global expertise of Holiday Inn suit them best.
in welcoming visitors and meeting customer needs will be vital between now and 2012.
London 2012 chairman, Lord Sebastian Coe.
1 3 of Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels relaunched in the region
