WHERE WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Europe, Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific 29 Asia Pacific Overview PERFORMANCE HEADLINES We split our Asia Pacific business into two separate Revenue per available room operations in 2009: Asia Australasia and Greater China.
Jan RevPAR Smits and Keith Barr reflect on the reasons and opportunities.
Hotels Rooms Hotels open 264 81,029 down 13.5% Development pipeline 213 65,174 Revenues Why did we restructure?
The move prepares us well for the future, with China set to down 14% to $245m overtake the US as the top inbound tourism market within 10 years.
We already have more guestrooms in Greater China than in the UK and our business is set to double in size in the Operating profit next three to four years.
Importantly, our scale in China now allows us to procure nationally and become more efficient.
Equally, we want down 19% to $52m to focus on opportunities in the Asia Australasian market, home to some of the most idyllic hotel settings in the world Before exceptional items.
and a source of untapped potential for our brands.
It was a tough but rewarding year.
Talking to owners as one We were thoughtful about our costs We believe its in everyones interests to work together with and employees and worked closely owners to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
with owners to help them through To that end were keen to establish formal dialogue with owners in Asia Pacific through our Owners Association, the IAHI.
At the same time, our During the year, we started the ball rolling at an initial meeting pipeline was robust and we opened an with owners in China, South East Asia and Australia.
We later office in Bangkok to support further agreed to establish a regional IAHI committee with our potential in Indo-China, especially Australian and New Zealand owners.
In such a vast and Thailand and Vietnam.
diverse geography, owners will benefit from having a strong, single voice while we build and refresh our brands together.
Jan Smits, Well be meeting with hoteliers across Asia Pacific to push Regional Managing Director, the idea in 2010.
Asia Australasia Smart Save rolls out We set up Smart Save, a cost-cutting exercise across all brands and operating areas early in the year.
Carefully testing areas where brand standards could be relaxed without affecting guest satisfaction, we identified left: changes to help to ease our Asia Keith Barr Pacific owners costs during the downturn.
Regional Managing Director, Greater China right: Jan Smits Regional Managing Director, Asia Australasia InterContinental Bali Resort, Indonesia 30 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 For the 2nd consecutive year we were Weve opened our first 2hotels named Best Global Hotel Chain operating in in the Maldives Holiday Inn Mal Greater China, at the TTG China Travel Awards.
and Holiday Inn Resort Kandooma.
Asia Pacific continued Photo by Jenifer Hilario Crowne Plaza through the eyes of a child.
overview continued Asia Australasia Greater China A diverse region, the new stand-alone Celebrating 25 years in the region, our The China business is at the business spans South East Asia, India, hotels generated total gross revenue in heart of our strategy in Japan, South Korea, Australia, New excess of $1 billion in 2009.
We always intended Zealand and French Polynesia.
It was a difficult year, even so.
As well to invest in China until the It hosts many of the worlds most as the economic downturn and the business could stand on its own.
beautiful destinations and, so, our impact of H1N1 flu in Asia, an oversupply We reached the point this year resorts business is strong and growing.
of hotels in Shanghai and Beijing made when the number of hotels, the It also supports a buoyant inter-regional trading tougher still for hoteliers.
travel market between Japan and Korea, pipeline, the local infrastructure Although RevPAR fell 16.9 per cent, Singapore and Thailand, Indonesia and we outperformed the market by 8.9 and the quality of our team Australia and across continental India.
percentage points, largely due to Holiday made it possible.
Those factors influenced the years Inns reputation with Chinese guests and Keith Barr, trading.
In the first half, Thailand took a our growing presence in secondary cities.
double hit from recession and political Regional Managing Director, We first entered China with the unrest, while RevPAR in India fell back Greater China Holiday Inn Lido Beijing in 1984 and sharply.
In the second half, we saw have been historically strong in Beijing stronger signs of recovery than and Shanghai.
Now, as Chinas rapid elsewhere in the world, due to the urbanisation takes off, we have hotels strength of regional travel and some open or signed in many secondary recovery in the meetings market.
In 2009 we opened a total of With 139 hotels already open and 75 17 hotels and saw growing owner more in the pipeline, we opened 10 new interest in our Crowne Plaza and hotels in 2009, maintaining a good rate.
These included the first Asia Australasia There are big opportunities here, with InterContinental Residences in Vietnam, the World Expo in Shanghai in 2010, and the first Holiday Inn Resort in Bali, as modern China paves the way for wider Indonesia and Thailands first newly built travel and tourism.
We have hotels open or Holiday Inn in Pattaya.
We also unveiled a on the way in areas of growing prosperity, THB890 million $25.9 million renovation such as Hangzhou, Suzhou, Nanjing, Wuxi, of the InterContinental Bangkok and Chongqing, Chengdu and Wuhan.
made great progress with our ANA joint venture in Japan see page right.
Asia Australasia covers 36 countries and we operate in 18 of them WHERE WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Asia Pacific 31 InterContinental Hong Kong named Business Traveller magazines Best Business Holiday Inn is the most popular Hotel in Hong Kong.
Topping the charts Flying the flag in Okinawa For the second year in a row, IHG was As part of our joint venture with All named Best International Chain at the Nippon Airways ANA, we refreshed Travel Trade Gazette TTG China Travel two ANA-InterContinental Resorts Awards.
The award recognises the top in Okinawa, Japan, this year.
travel and tourism organisations, as The ANA InterContinental Manza Beach voted by the TTG readers.
Five of our Resort and the ANA InterContinental hotels also came out top of their Ishigaki Resort are among 13 existing categories, including InterContinental InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Hong Kong Best Meeting and in Asia Pacific, with 10 more in the Conventions Hotel in Hong Kong, pipeline.
Resorts are increasingly driving InterContinental Shenzhen Best Luxury our business in Asia Australasia where Hotel in Shenzhen and Crowne Plaza our key brands are InterContinental, Shenzhen Best Business Hotel Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn.
InterContinental resorts in blissful locations such as Bali, Tahiti, Bora Bora and Goa, we added the InterContinental Fiji Golf Resort and Spa this year and the first Holiday Inn Resort in Bali, Indonesia.
Hotel Indigo, Hong Kong Hotel Indigo has designs on Hong Kong Reinforcing Hotel Indigos Asia Pacific debut in Shanghai next year, we added a second Hotel Indigo to our pipeline a 150-room Hotel Indigo in Hong Kongs historic Wan Chai district.
Hotel Indigo is an ideal brand for Wan Chai, where Chinese wedding card shops, pawnshops and teahouses blend with new restaurants and designer outlets.
Hotel Indigo Hong Kong Queens Road East will feature a dragon in burnished bronze wrapped around the building, which will provide eco-screening to shield the building from extreme heat while capturing solar power.
TCC deal favours our brands We signed a strategic agreement with Photo by Tao Zhang, taken at Holiday Inn Lido Beijing, Peoples Republic of China the Thai Careon Corporation to convert We even ride the extra mile for our guests.
four existing hotels, adding nearly 1,500 rooms to our brands.
The Hyatt Adelaide became an InterContinental hotel, while the ANA Crowne Plaza Kobe came under our management.
Additionally, in China, we will convert the Sakura Kunming Hotel into a new-look Holiday Inn and renovate the Crowne Plaza Kunming City Centre.
10 0th Holiday Inn in Asia Pacific Holiday Inn Tianjin Riverside
