10 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Were on target to complete the relaunch 3,300hotels by the end of 2010.
The relaunch of Holiday Inn In tough times, smart brands invest.
And the $1 billion global Holiday Inn relaunch, with more than 3,300 hotels, is the biggest in hospitality history.
Were improving the quality and service of $1 billion is proof of their pride and Holiday Inn confidence in the brand and recognition at our hotels, ensuring were consistent greets Pattaya that their investment will offer an across the world and giving guests We opened excellent return.
and owners renewed trust in our a brand new Holiday Inn in biggest brand.
Indeed, relaunched hotels are already Pattaya, one of feeling the benefits, with an average Thailands most of 3%-7% improved RevPAR and popular tourist increased guest satisfaction scores.
Why change one of the worlds destinations.
We want Holiday Inn guests to have most recognised brands?
Thailands an experience that makes them come first new-build As a good brand manager were always back, time and again.
For that reason, Holiday Inn looking for ways to strengthen the any hotel that fails to meet brand features all the appeal of our brands.
elements of our standards by the end of the relaunch relaunch and The market has changed since the first will be removed from our system.
each of the 367 Holiday Inn opened over 55 years ago.
guestrooms has The hallmarks of the new-look Holiday sweeping views Now is exactly the right time Inn upgraded lobby areas, our Stay of Pattaya Bay.
Real service promise and improved In a challenging economic climate, showers and comfortable beds with midscale hotels are holding up well.
signature bedding are based on Travellers are looking for value, whats important to our guests now consumers are returning to brands and what will make a great brand fit they know they can trust and 65 per for future generations.
cent of corporate travel managers are encouraging the use of mid-priced hotels Source: National Business Better for guests, Travel Association, USA.
better for owners As the worlds largest brand in this Weve worked closely with the IAHI, the sector, this makes Holiday Inn more Owners Association, at every stage of relevant than ever.
Our combined investment 10 0 million guest nights sold a year HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com The relaunch of Holiday Inn 11 Proud to be Official Hotel Services 900more hotels Provider to London due to open in the next 2012 see page 28. three to four years.
Making the relaunch visible During 2009, we launched a consumer marketing campaign, including outdoor, online, TV and print advertising.
Weve also updated our websites with the brands new look and feel.
Key to success To mark the opening of 1,200 new Holiday Inn hotels across the globe, we unveiled the worlds first Key Card Hotel in New York City in September.
Keeping it in the family McLean Wilson, grandson of Holiday Inn founder Kemmons Wilson, opened his first Holiday Inn in Memphis, Tennessee, the city of his grandfathers inaugural hotel.
The opening of a new 133-room Holiday Inn Hotel and Suites, MemphisWolfchase Galleria, was a particularly fitting one, showing the Wilson family is right behind our global relaunch.
The hotel is situated in the birthplace of the brand, bringing our fresh image and design back to where it all began in 1952.
