44 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Investor information Website and electronic communication Share dealing services As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
For more and environmental impact of producing and distributing printed information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer a documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report and telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview Dealing, which Annual Review have been made available to the majority of provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling shares.
shareholders through the Companys website For telephone dealings call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and www.
com investors under shareholder centre reports.
4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log on to www.
co. uk Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion Individual Savings Accounts ISAs IHG is currently operating a promotion for discounted hotel stays subject to availability for registered shareholders, through a Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares.
For further information please dedicated, controlled access website.
For further details please contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244. contact the Company Secretariat at the registered office address details shown on page 45 or email companysecretariat@ihg.
com ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share Share price information donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, The latest share price is available in the financial press, on Ceefax the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org or telephone 09058 171690 calls charged at 75p per minute from by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. a BT landline.
Further details of the share price may be found on the Companys website www.
com investors under Shareholder security shareholder centre share price.
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning Changes to the base cost of IHG shares investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what since April 2003 up to December 2009, for UK Capital Gains often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website at investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler www.
com under shareholder centre tax information.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Financial Services Authority website Corporate Responsibility Report www.
uk IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report for 2009 Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses covering progress on a range of environmental, social and community will be included in Company mailings.
This is available on our corporate website and can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Registrar in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification traded under the symbol IHG.
Each ADR represents one ordinary of a shareholders change of address and for information on a share.
All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment range of shareholder services please contact the Companys of dividends should be directed to JPMorgan Chase & Co. our Registrar, Equiniti details shown on page 45. authorised depositary bank details shown on page 45.
The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Dividend services Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash found on the Companys website www.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application and at www.
shtml information booklet are available on the Companys website www.
com investors under shareholder centre dividends.
Summary forward-looking statement Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
By their of shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, actual results and developments may differ materially from those Overseas shareholders can have their dividends paid direct to expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed their bank account or by cheque in another major currency.
Please explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forwardcontact our Registrar for further details.
Charges are payable for looking statements is set out on page 117 of the Annual Report this service.
and Financial Statements 2009, copies of which are available from If you think that you have out of date dividend warrants or the registered office of the Company details shown on page 45 outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar or on the Companys website at www.
com investors under for further information.
