WHERE WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Around the world and The Americas 23 The Americas Overview PERFORMANCE HEADLINES The great relationships we enjoy with our hotel owners Revenue per available room set us apart from the rest of the industry this year RevPAR just when it mattered most, says Jim Abrahamson.
Hotels Rooms Hotels open 3,479 445,354 down 14.9% Development pipeline 1,073 113,728 Revenues Working together to raise our game This was the year that proved why good relationships with down 20% to $772m our owners are so vital.
While other hotel groups did not enjoy such mutual co-operation, we worked collaboratively to agree on efficiency savings and revenue building initiatives, with the Operating profit unstinting support of Tom Corcoran, 2009 Chairman of the IAHI, the Owners Association.
Thanks to this and a steady stream of openings and down 38% to $288m refurbishments across the region we contained RevPAR declines to 14.9 per cent and outperformed the market by Before exceptional items.
Our priority was to stay focused on the guest experience.
We deployed our people more effectively and waived some non-essential programmes to ease owners overheads.
Steady leisure After a difficult first six months, occupancy in the leisure market steadied in the summer, although business bookings were challenging.
Our performance was boosted by the strength of Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express, which account for 71 per cent of all rooms in the region.
Still growing In spite of the downturn, across the Americas we continued to open and sign an average of one hotel a day.
While continuing to invest in our brands, we had to make responsible decisions and support our owners.
We relaunched over 50 per cent of the Holiday Inn estate, increased our Hotel Indigo portfolio by over 50 per cent and expanded our new timeshare brand.
In all, we added 247 hotels to our pipeline.
We worked shoulder to shoulder with our hotel owners to respond to the economic crisis and raise the profile of our industry.
At the same time, we stayed focused on building our brands, relaunching over 50% of our Holiday Inn estate and opening or signing 622 new hotels.
Jim Abrahamson President, The Americas Holiday Inn, Dominican Republic 24 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 President Felipe Extended stay brands, Staybridge Suites Caldern cut the and Candlewood Suites, opened a total of ribbon at the Crowne Plaza, Mazatlan 78 hotels, nearly7,550 rooms Marina, Mexico.
The Americas continued Holiday Inn Club Vacations, Orange Lake Resort, Orlando, Florida, USA overview continued Canada United States Four brands in the We maintained a strong presence, We opened 341 new hotels and resorts heart of New York opening 12 new hotels.
The Holiday Inn in our biggest market during 2009.
Over 40 million people visit New York development pipeline remained the Among these were five Holiday Inn Club every year, providing plenty of guest largest of all midscale hotel brands and Vacations resorts, our first Hotel Indigo opportunities for our 1,000th new-look we relaunched 47 per cent of Holiday Inn in New York City and our 250th Holiday Inn the Holiday Inn Express hotels by the end of the year.
Times Square and its three sister the first Hotel Indigo in Toronto and As we expected, the downturn in the hotels around Broadway.
The 36-storey signed our first Hotel Indigo for US affected us less in the major tourist InterContinental New York Times Square is Vancouver, which will open towards destinations, in cities with robust due to open in summer 2010.
Featuring a the end of 2010. industries such as oil and gas and in glass hotel tower atop a six-storey podium locations where our new and refreshed Mexico and Latin America of restaurants and street level shops, Holiday Inn hotels opened their doors.
this is one of six InterContinental hotels With the launch of 22 new hotels, we now in the Americas development pipeline.
have 189 properties in Mexico, Central Lobbying for our industry at the and South America and the Caribbean.
highest level Within walking distance of 40 theatres, After a dip in tourism caused partly by the new hotel will join Crowne Plaza Our efforts to secure the safe passage of the H1N1 flu crisis, we pitched in to help Times Square, where an $85 million the Travel Promotion Act 2009 included a our hotel owners in Mexico and saw a renovation was completed for the start of meeting with President Obama.
The Act strong domestic recovery, opening a new 2009.
Just a block away, New Yorks first will provide a vital boost to our industry, Holiday Inn Express in Monterrey and the new-build Candlewood Suites opened creating a public-private partnership Crowne Plaza Mazatlan Marina.
In Brazil its doors, increasing our presence with a budget of $200 million a year to we have a growing portfolio of 13 hotels.
in the Big Apple to 16 hotels in total.
attract international travellers to the US We are now the second largest hotel generating an estimated $4 billion in operator in Latin America with the widest annual visitor spending.
We also raised the issue of business meetings.
Following the financial crisis, politicians took a dim view of corporate meetings and entertainment.
We argued that well-managed corporate meetings are genuinely productive and good news for the US economy.
Crowne Plaza Times Square, New York, USA The 250th Candlewood Suites opened in Kalamazoo, Michigan, USA WHERE WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com The Americas 25 63 years in 5new Holiday Inn Latin America Club Vacations resorts.
Latin America shows Hotel Indigo increases Staybridge gets top marks room for growth its presence from guests Hotel owners in Latin America We had a great year for Hotel Indigo this The influential J. D. Power North America agreed to invest US$175 million year, opening properties in key cities and Hotel Guest Satisfaction Index ranked in new properties this year.
markets such as San Diego and Toronto.
Staybridge Suites highest among all extended stay hotel chains.
In the upscale sector we signed new Among the roll-out in the year was InterContinental hotels for Mendoza New Yorks first Hotel Indigo in Chelsea, To earn the top ranking, Staybridge and Buenos Aires in Argentina.
We one of the citys most eclectic areas.
Suites outperformed other chains in the reached agreement to open four new study, scoring highest in overall guest This year we signed 10 more deals.
Holiday Inn Express properties and two satisfaction.
The study was based on There are now 47 Hotel Indigo properties Holiday Inn hotels in the key Brazilian responses from more than 66,000 guests in the Americas development pipeline.
cities of Manaus, So Lus, Belem, between June 2008 and June 2009.
We also agreed terms to build the first Holiday Inn Express hotels in Honduras.
Continued growth in the region resulted in a number of milestone hotel openings in 2009: our first Hotel Indigo in Costa Rica: the first Holiday Inn Express in the Colombian capital of Bogot: and the Dominican Republics first Holiday Inn.
Owners wake up to sleep advantage Crowne Plaza owners put a quarter of a billion US dollars behind major renovations and opened 20 hotels, 5,408 rooms this year.
Extensive building and interior works were completed at nearly 50 per cent of Crowne Plaza hotels in the Americas.
The brand features our Sleep Advantage hallmark, with facilities such as quiet zone floors, comfortable new beds and nightlights to encourage a good nights sleep.
We signed another 15 Crowne Plaza Photo by Hapeez Merani, taken at Times Square, New York, USA properties and 3,619 rooms in 2009.
Broadway singing the Holiday Inn song!
Sharing our hospitality We added five Holiday Inn Club Vacations resorts in the first half of 2009 and now have two resorts in Florida and another four in South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont and Wisconsin.
The brand is a joint venture with the Family of Orange Lake Resorts, owned by the Wilson family, founders of Holiday Inn.
Having created a new market for IHG and nearly 3,000 timeshare villas, we plan to break into popular travel spots such as Las Vegas and Hawaii.
1st Hotel Indigo hotels open in New York and Toronto
