12 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 PCR 50% members up of our marketing budget is spent on non-traditional tools, like online 14% search and direct marketing.
Guest experience Thanks to our size and the power of our system we believe were uniquely placed to turn the challenges of a difficult economic environment into opportunities, says Tom Seddon.
By offering a great guest experience and unrivalled support to our hotel owners, were also building a stronger base for the future.
Its a testament to our scale Creating Great Hotels Guests Love and close collaboration with Over the past 20 years our guests have been changing.
Customers have more choices, owners that weve been able are influenced by new forms of communication and are increasingly conscious of to introduce bold new ways of value, particularly in the current climate.
Its more important than ever to offer guests driving revenue and delivering good value and a great experience every time they stay in one of our hotels.
guests in these tough times.
Were well positioned to seize these in a way none of our competitors can.
To do that These initiatives are not only we need to make it quick and easy for increasingly savvy guests to choose one of our helping us outperform our seven brands in the first place, and provide an experience that means theyll keep competitors now, they also coming back to us.
mean were well placed to accelerate when the economy recovers in the future.
$1 billion of marketing muscle Hotel owners sign up to one of our brands because they know theyll have the backing of a large company to help them stay competitive.
That comes from the support each and Tom Seddon every one of them gets from the powerful IHG system and the $1 billion system fund.
Chief Marketing Officer Our system is made up of the tools and resources we have to get more people booking our hotels and to drive revenue for our owners, including our reservations channels, sales force and loyalty programme.
The system funds contributed by owners are fed into our websites, call centres, sales teams, brand development and tactical marketing programmes.
A system for the e-savvy Around 70 per cent of all bookings have an element of online activity, even if its only researching.
So its vital we market to customers at every stage of the shopping cycle, from searching to booking, and that they trust us to offer the best price for our hotels when they book online.
Were also spending more on search engine marketing with companies like Google and TripAdvisor than any of our competitors.
And we work at the cutting edge of interactive marketing to win back customers who leave our sites without booking.
Brands our guests trust When times are tough, strong brands do well.
But that doesnt mean standing still.
We know from research that guests love us even more when we give them hotels that are consistently better, in ways they recognise and value.
The relaunch of Holiday Inn is a good example of how we respond to what our customers want.
It also shows that investing in a brand during a downturn can lead to increased RevPAR and greater guest satisfaction see pages 10 and 11.
We take reservations in 29 languages HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Guest experience 13 Were on YouTube at and Twitter at www.
com ihgplc Our biggest promotion ever Over 900,000 people took advantage of our Biggest Free Nights Offer.
With no restricted dates and no need to stay consecutive nights, our Biggest Free Nights Offer provided more flexibility and choice than any other offer in the market.
Guests staying two nights at any of our brands could claim a free night in any IHG hotel, using a stay in a Holiday Inn, for instance, to claim a free night in an InterContinental hotel.
To mark the launch, 20,000 people took part in the worlds biggest bed-jump, jumping on giant beds in London, Shanghai, Paris and New York, on the same day.
Value in loyalty Spectacular recognition Putting our hotels in the picture This year we put even greater emphasis InterContinental Hotels & Resorts had on renewing and enrolling Priority Club a successful year at the World Travel Were investing around $8 million to Rewards PCR members and in 2009 Awards the most sought-after awards improve the content of our websites, we enrolled another six million members.
in the global travel and tourism industry.
producing new professional photographs We increased the value of points by We scooped 13 awards including and written descriptions of all our offering the flexibility to redeem using Worlds Leading Hotel Brand and hotels.
Tests show this converts enough cash as well as points.
In addition, Worlds Leading New Hotel browsers to bookers to potentially drive members can redeem their points at InterContinental Residence Suites over $150 million of business a year.
hotels outside the IHG group, another Dubai Festival City.
industry first for the largest loyalty Discounts for friends programme in the business.
Going out to get more and family business Rewarding our guests for their loyalty Leisure travellers have a growing Developing strong relationships is just brings them back to our brands time influence on our business, and will play as important when it comes to our after time.
PCR members are our most a key role in the economic upturn.
This corporate customers who want to loyal guests they stay with us more, year leisure bookings remained fairly manage business travel more efficiently.
and spend more when they do.
Were stable as guests took advantage of lower Many are increasing their purchasing focused on building deeper relationships prices to get better value.
We targeted power by doing more business with with our guests and finding ways to leisure guests with a range of successful fewer hotel companies.
At a time when remind them why were the first choice for offers, starting with a promotion to our many of our competitors were reducing hotels.
And they are noticing for the fifth network of 335,000 employees, offering their sales teams, we put 25 per cent consecutive year, the readers of Global a discount through our Friends & Family more sales people on the ground helping Traveler magazine have named PCR campaign.
So far, over $30 million of us capture a greater share of available the Best Hotel Rewards Programme.
business has been generated through business and land big new accounts, the 72,000 employees who registered.
generating millions of dollars of new business for our owners.
