193 Glossary Accident frequency rate AFR Cogeneration Emission certificates The number of lost time accidents LTAs divided by The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat Under various environmental schemes, emission the number of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000. in the form of steam, typically where the need for certificates are required to cover the amount of both arises for industrial or commercial purposes relevant emissions made by a power station.
Cap and Annual General Meeting AGM and where the steam is generated by utilising the trade schemes are a common type of scheme.
Under Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the waste heat from electricity generation.
a cap and trade scheme, operators are required to Company.
purchase sufficient emission certificates to cover their Combined Code Asset-backed trading actual emissions, and the operator may or may not The Code which sets out the expected corporate The buying and selling of the electricity generated and be granted an initial volume of certificates.
Examples governance standards for companies listed on the fuel used by our power stations.
of such schemes include the European Union London Stock Exchange.
Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS which covers Availability Corridor approach emissions of CO, based on a cap and trade system.
2 A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy Under this approach to recognising surpluses and Other examples include the Clean Air Act in the US that was actually available to be generated during deficits in defined benefit pension plans, actuarial which covers emissions of oxides of nitrogen NOx the period, after taking account of both planned and gains and losses are not recognised immediately.
and oxides of sulphur SOx.
unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the Only when the cumulative gains or losses fall outside maximum potential electrical energy generation.
EPC contract the corridor is a specified portion recognised in the Engineering, procurement and construction contract, Bond income statement from the following year onwards.
used principally for the building of power stations by Financial instrument that obligates the issuing The corridor is 10% of the present value of the a turnkey contractor.
company the borrower to make specified payments pension rights accrued or of the fund assets at to the holder the lender.
Calculated by dividing the profit Call option CR after interest, tax and minority interests by the An option to buy a security at a pre-determined price.
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Capacity installed Dark spread Equator Principles Generator capacity measured in megawatts MW, The difference between the cost of coal to generate A benchmark for lenders regarding the management usually indicated on a nameplate physically attached electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
of social and environmental issues in project financing.
Debt capitalisation ERCOT Combined cycle plant Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and Electric Reliability Council of Texas responsible for Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT the total equity book value.
managing the Texas generating and transmission combination of a gas turbine GT and steam turbine Demerger systems.
ST in a configuration that enables electricity to be The process whereby National Power split its UK and generated directly from a generator driven by the GT ETS international operations International Power into and, by using exhaust gases from the GT to produce Emissions trading scheme programme for the separate businesses.
steam, a ST coupled to the same generator or trading of emissions permits mainly relating to another generator.
2 Plant which produces drinking water from sea water.
CEO EUETS Chief Executive Officer.
Due diligence European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
A process undertaken before the acquisition of a CFO Feed-in tariff business to ensure all significant risks, rewards and Chief Financial Officer.
Guaranteed tariff for energy produced, often provided issues are identified and considered before any offer by governments to support renewable generation.
CO is made to the vendor or an acquisition takes place.
FGD Flue gas desulphurisation a process which removes SOx from the flue gas emissions of a coal plant.
Supplementary information 194 International Power Annual Report 2009 Glossary Forced outage rate Gigawatt-hour GWh Joule A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a A measure of energy work done, the ability that was actually unavailable for generation during one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
The to generate one watt for one second.
the period due to unplanned outages, expressed as a gigawatt-hour GWh is 1,000,000 times larger KAPCO percentage of the maximum potential electrical energy than the kilowatt-hour and is used for measuring Kot Addu Power Company.
generation, after taking account of planned outages.
the energy output of large power plants.
KPI Fossil fuel Hedge contracts Key performance indicator.
It is generally accepted that fossil fuels are formed A contract that gives protection against risks of future from the fossilised remains of dead plants and animals price movements.
kW by exposure to heat and pressure in the Earths crust Kilowatt 1,000 watts.
HS&E over hundreds of millions of years.
They are found Health, safety and environment.
Kilowatt-hour kWh within the top layer of the earths crust and range from A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a very volatile materials with low carbon-to-hydrogen HUBCO one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
The ratios like methane, to those with high carbon-toHub Power Company.
kilowatt-hour kWh is 1,000 times larger than hydrogen ratios like liquid petroleum.
They also IASs a watt-hour and is a useful size for measuring the include non-volatile materials composed of almost International Accounting Standards.
energy use of households and small businesses and pure carbon, like anthracite coal.
Fossil fuels are also for the production of energy by small power non-renewable resources because they take millions IASB plants.
A typical household uses several hundred of years to form.
Functional currency ICOM Kyoto Protocol The currency of the primary economic environment Investment Committee.
A protocol to the International Framework in which the entity operates.
IFRSs Convention on Climate Change with the objective Gearing International Financial Reporting Standards.
of reducing greenhouse gases in an effort to prevent Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
IPA Central Generator nameplate capacity Four modern peaking generation facilities located in LCPD The maximum output of a generator, under specific PJM and MISO, wholly owned by International Power.
conditions designated by the manufacturer.
IPO LDs Greenfield land International Power Opatovice A. S. a subsidiary in the Liquidated damages, being a reasonable pre-estimate A piece of undeveloped land, either currently used Czech Republic, disposed of in 2009, which provides of loss specified in a contract, payable if one party for agriculture or just left to nature.
power and district heating to the city of Prague.
breaches one part of a contract.
GSA IPP LNG Gas supply agreement.
GT ISO 14001 Load factor Gas turbine.
The international standard of environment The proportion of electricity actually generated, management systems.
compared with the maximum possible generation GW at maximum net capacity.
Gigawatt, one thousand million watts.
ISO:NE New England power pool.
Lost time accident LTA 24-hours absence from work, following an accident at work.
195 Letter of Credit LoC Non-recourse debt OPERA A credit facility provided by a bank.
Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender Operating plant engineering risk assessment, an has no recourse to the shareholder.
internally developed tool for assessing engineering M&A risk at assets.
OSA Mark to market Oil supply agreement.
The act of attributing a fair or market value to a O&E financial instrument rather than its historical cost.
Outage Marking to market is required under accounting rules When a generating unit is removed from service O&M for certain derivatives and financial instruments.
This can either be Operations and maintenance, usually used in the planned or unplanned.
Merchant market context of operating and maintaining a power station.
A merchant market is a deregulated market.
It Peak load OCGT is a market in which electricity is bought and sold The maximum demand for electricity during a Open cycle gas turbine turbines, typically fuelled competitively by multiple market participants.
This may require use by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators of plant for example pumped storage that is kept Merchant plant to produce electricity, with no use of the waste heat in reserve for peak periods.
Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets for subsequent power generation.
selling power into the traded market without Peaking plant Offtake agreement long-term power purchase agreements PPAs.
Plant that runs only in times of short supply normally Power purchase agreement between a company during peak demand, when prices are high.
MIGD owning a power station and its customer the Millions of imperial gallons per day.
offtaker whereby the customer takes the electricity PJM generated by a power station.
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland power pool.
MISO Midwest Independent System Operator.
OHSAS 18001 Power purchase agreement PPA Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series See also Offtake agreement.
A management system specification, long-term contract between an electricity generator Mitsui & Co. of Japan.
developed by British Standards Institute which is now and a purchaser of energy or capacity power or MW an accepted international standard, for health and ancillary services.
Megawatt: one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts or one safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 Proprietary trading million watts.
Quality and ISO 14001:1996 Environmental The trading of commodities for the purposes of management.
Megawatt-hour MWh making a profit, when the commodity is not generated A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a Operational control by our own power stations or purchased for use by one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
The Operational control includes all subsidiaries, joint our own power stations, also known as non-asset megawatt-hour MWh is 1,000 times larger than ventures and associates with over 50% shareholding, backed trading.
the kilowatt-hour and is used for measuring the and those assets where International Power always energy output of large power plants.
appoints the Station Manager, or Executive Managing Director, and therefore can exert significant influence MWth over operations at the entity.
One megawatt of thermal power, which is a measurement of heat.
Supplementary information 196 International Power Annual Report 2009 Glossary Pumped storage SCR UAE A method of energy generation that involves moving Selective catalytic reduction equipment to reduce United Arab Emirates.
water between reservoirs at different elevations.
the content of oxides of nitrogen in flue gases.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act When electricity prices are low, typically overnight, SO The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in 2 electricity from the grid system is used to pump Sulphur dioxide.
reaction to the highly publicised bankruptcies of water into a raised reservoir and then at times of Enron and WorldCom and is concerned with strictly peak demand, when electricity prices are higher, SOx enforcing corporate governance and financial the water is released back into the lower reservoir Oxides of sulphur.
Spark spread Watt Put option The difference between the cost of gas to generate Unit of power, which is the rate at which energy is An option to sell a security back to the issuer electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
delivered i. e. work is done at a rate of one watt when at a pre-determined price.
Spot price one ampere flows through a potential difference of PWPA Market price at a particular point in time.
Power and water purchase agreement.
Spread Recourse debt The difference between the fuel costs to generate Debt where the lender has recourse to parties electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
other than the borrower, usually a parent company Tolling agreement or shareholder.
A form of long-term electricity contract where the Reference site conditions buyer of electricity also supplies the fuel.
The site-specific average temperature, pressure and t h humidity for which the plant is designed and against Tonnes per hour.
which plant performance is measured.
TSR Retail Total shareholder return.
The sale of power and or gas to end users.
Turnkey contract Reserve margin A contract where one party takes full responsibility The amount of available plant reserve capacity above for the construction and commissioning of a plant, the systems peak electricity requirements.
delivering the plant in full working order to the owner.
RGGI Turnbull Guidance Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a US regulation The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the Combined towards carbon emission reduction in ten north Code requirements for the Directors review of the eastern states.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal RPI controls.
International Power at a glance Portfolio by geography www.
com North America Europe Middle East Australia Asia International Power is a leading independent power generation The International Power website, www.
com, company with interests in 32,358MW gross of power generating has a wealth of detailed information on the Company 134million 629million 85million 233million 128million PFO PFO PFO PFO PFO capacity, across five core regions North America, Europe, and its business activities.
Profit from operations PFO in PFO in Europe increased 8% to In the Middle East, PFO increased PFO was up 40% at 233 million PFO in Asia was 128 million up North America decreased 24% 629 million from 581 million in 23% to 85 million, up from compared to 167 million in the 23% from 104 million in 2008 up Middle East, Australia and Asia.
to 134 million compared to 2008 up 7% at constant currency, 69 million in 2008 up 4% at previous year up 27% at constant 9% at constant currency, primarily 177 million in 2008 down 36% reflecting an improved contribution constant currency.
This increase was driven by an increased contribution at constant currency.
Financial from Rugeley in the UK, which had benefited from good overall primarily driven by an improved from Uch in Pakistan.
All of our performance was principally an extended outage in 2008, and operational performance and a contribution from Hazelwood, assets in the region delivered a Financial highlights impacted by weak market a strong performance at Saltend, first full-year contribution from the strong performance at the strong operational performance conditions and a lower write back also in the UK.
Our contracted additional capacity at Ras Laffan B. Synergen peaking assets, which and achieved availability levels above of provisions at Coleto Creek plants in Iberia and Turkey captured high prices during periods those targeted in their long-term Page Regional review relating to out-of-the-money continued to operate well and of hot weather, and a solid operational offtake contracts.
Pages 44 to 47 power contracts that were in delivered a consistent financial performance across the portfolio.
Page Regional review place when the asset was acquired.
Page Pages 51 to 53 Regional review Our long-term contracted assets 2009 1,157m Page Regional review Pages 48 to 50 performed well.
Pages 40 to 43 1,157 million Page Regional review 2008 1,049m Pages 36 to 39 Profit from operations Our Company IP Canada Wind Portfolio IPR European Wind Portfolio Hidd Bahrain Canunda South Australia Paiton Indonesia Learn more about International Powers assets Canada Germany, Italy, Al Kamil Oman Pelican Point South Australia HUBCO Pakistan and global reach.
2009 33.4p France, Netherlands Calumet Illinois Ras Laffan B Qatar Synergen South Australia KAPCO Pakistan ISAB Italy Bellingham Massachusetts Tihama Saudi Arabia Hazelwood Victoria Uch Pakistan 33.4pence Tejo Energia Pego Portugal Blackstone Massachusetts Shuweihat S1 UAE Loy Yang B Victoria TNP Pluak Daeng Thailand Investor information 2008 32.4p Turbogs Portugal Milford Massachusetts Umm Al Nar UAE Kwinana Western Australia Visit the dedicated site for investors and Earnings per share Spanish Hydro Spain Troy Ohio shareholders.
Uni-Mar Marmara Turkey Armstrong Pennsylvania Deeside UK Coleto Creek Texas Derwent UK Hays Texas Environment and society 2009 791m First Hydro UK Midlothian Texas For a more detailed overview of environmental Indian Queens UK Oyster Creek Texas 791million Rugeley UK Pleasants West Virginia performance and corporate responsibility.
2008 513m Saltend UK EcoElctrica Puerto Rico Free cash flow Note: Note: Earnings per share EPS and profit from operations PFO are presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
PFO is presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Portfolio by geography Portfolio by fuel type Portfolio by contract type Total power capacity operational net MW 31% North America 61% Gas 34% Long-term contracted North America 32% Europe 21.5% Coal 28% Uncontracted 6,499MW 12% Middle East 8% Pumped storage 24% Short-term contracted 16% Australia 6% Wind 8% Pumped storage Europe 9% Asia 3% Oil 6% Wind 6,707MW 0.5% Hydro One-year forward average from 8 March 2010 Middle East 2,454MW Note: All charts presented based on net MW, excluding assets under construction, as at 8 March 2010.
Asia Designed and produced by Roundel www.
com 1,790MW Board and Senior Management photography Patrick Harrison It is important that our Annual Report is produced in an environmentally responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
The Annual Report is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral printing Australia company, using vegetable-based inks and water-based sealants on Revive Pure White Silk cover and pages 1 to108 and Revive Pure White 020406080 100 3,221MW Offset pages 109 to 196, which is certified as 100% recycled by the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and paper manufacturing mill both have ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental management.
When you have finished with this item, please dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
com Annual Report 2009 Registered Office International Powers strategy is to deliver growth in shareholder value International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street through power generation, ensuring a balanced international portfolio London EC4V 4DP Registered in England in terms of markets, fuel, contract type and technology.
We create value and Wales No: 2366963 by the efficient operation, financing, and trading of output from our Published by International Power plc power generation fleet, whilst maintaining the highest levels of safety and environmental performance.
We exercise rigorous financial control in all our investment decisions, and invest in the development of our people for the long-term.
Ras Laffan B Qatar Summary Annual Report 2009 2 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Chairmans statement International Powers financial position is robust and reflects strong free cash flow generation in 2009, the successful conclusion of significant refinancings, and good corporate liquidity.
Our portfolio operated well and delivered International Powers financial position is a good performance in 2009 with profit robust and reflects strong free cash flow from operations PFO at 1,157 million generation in 2009, which at 791 million and earnings per share EPS at 33.4 pence, was up 54% from 2008, the successful compared to 32.4 pence in 2008. conclusion of significant refinancings, and good corporate liquidity.
Power generation Stronger PFO from Europe and Australia, is clearly a capital-intensive business and together with improved performance in we have a robust capital structure centred Asia and the Middle East, helped to offset on non-recourse project finance, which the lower PFO in North America.
ensures that debt is appropriately sized Despite the challenging economic backdrop, for each individual project company in the business overall delivered earnings and a low risk structure.
cash flow ahead of our forecast at the start Our geographical spread and in-depth of the year, once again demonstrating the market knowledge provide us with good strength of our diversified international growth opportunities, and we continue asset portfolio.
to review both small and large-scale In North America, our merchant plants transactions if these make financial sense were principally impacted by a reduction for our shareholders.
In 2009 we grew the in demand and lower gas prices.
Given the portfolio through acquisitions and greenfield economic conditions, this temporary developments.
We acquired one of Canadas slow-down in US power demand was not largest independent wind farm developers, unexpected and the long-term fundamentals AIM PowerGen with 40MW of wind farms of our markets remain attractive.
in operation, 40MW under construction, and a development pipeline of up to 1,200MW.
In the UK, our strongly forward contracted Canada has a strong commitment to position helped us to deliver a good renewable generation, and this acquisition performance, notwithstanding weaker represents an attractive vehicle for further underlying market trends.
Australia has growth in the important renewables arena.
been largely insulated from the global economic slow-down.
Our portfolio of contracted plants across all regions continued to perform well.
All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairmans statement exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
3 In January 2010, we completed the financing The Health, Safety and Environment HS&E 2009 has been a good year for International of a new 110MW long-term contracted Committee under the chairmanship of Struan Power, and it is due to the continued project in Thailand on attractive terms.
Robertson, ensures that there is clear Board commitment and hard work of our high This project is expected to be operational commitment to these vital areas for our quality teams that we have been able to in 2012.
In March 2010 we signed the business.
During 2009 the Committee met accomplish this performance.
I would like US$1,215 million financing for the 815MW twice, visiting Hazelwood and Loy Yang B to take this opportunity to thank all our coal-fired Paiton 3 plant in Indonesia, which in Australia and ISAB in Italy.
I am pleased employees for their continued contribution.
will be located within the existing Paiton to report that over 80% of our operational Our performance in 2009 again reflects complex.
The project has a 30-year power plants worldwide now operate to the certified the strength of our international portfolio purchase agreement PPA with PT PLN, OHSAS 18001 international standard for of both long-term contracted and merchant the Indonesian state utility, and is expected health and safety management systems.
Whilst 2010 will reflect the sale of our to be fully operational by the end of 2012.
Our in-house behavioural safety programme, Czech business and the likely impact of weak The construction of T-Power and Elecgas known as Fresh Eyes, continues to contribute market conditions in the US and the UK, our in Europe is making good progress, and towards positive changes in the HS&E culture high quality asset base means we are well Fujairah F2, in the UAE, is on schedule at our plants.
An increased focus on the positioned to capture value from any market to reach commercial operation this year.
HS&E performance at our construction recovery, and from periods of pricing projects, driven by our project managers Our principal strategic focus is to create volatility.
We continue to pursue a range and monitored regularly by the Board, shareholder value by growing the business, of growth opportunities to create value has resulted in further improvements its profitability and its cash flow.
This goes for shareholders, and overall the Groups in construction safety this year.
hand-in-hand with effective portfolio financial position is strong, with good management, and if selling a particular In 2009 we welcomed David Weston to the corporate liquidity and free cash flow.
business represents greater value creation Board as a Non-Executive Director.
David has for shareholders, then we will do so.
This broad international experience in energy and was evidenced in 2009 when, following capital intensive businesses from his time at very attractive offers, we sold our Czech Shell, and now as a member of the executive business and our interest in the Hartwell management team at Anglo American.
Sir Neville Simms plant in North America, crystallising In August last year, the Board announced Chairman excellent value for shareholders.
an interim dividend of 4.25 pence per share We remain focused on improving our 35% of the previous years full-year dividend.
environmental performance through The Board is proposing a final dividend of reducing the emissions intensity of our 8.28 pence per share for the year which, portfolio.
We aim to achieve this through a including the interim dividend, will take combination of investment in modern, high the total for 2009 to 12.53 pence per share.
efficiency, thermal generation, renewable This represents an increase of 3% on 2008 energy projects and efficiency improvements and an EPS pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
Two markets where major new environmental legislation is anticipated are Australia and the US and we maintain active engagement in the regulatory process.
4 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive Officers statement 2009 presented many challenges, and the good performance across the Group is testament to the quality, skill, enthusiasm, and commitment of everyone within the International Power team worldwide.
We have delivered another year of strong In North America, the power sector was Europe had another very strong year, operational and financial performance, dominated by the impact of the recession principally driven by a good performance against global economic and banking on both power demand and gas prices.
We have completed environments that were uncertain and Demand levels in our major markets of Texas the environmental upgrade at our coal-fired challenging.
We have maintained a healthy and New England were both down some Rugeley plant, enabling a longer life for this financial position with good corporate 5-6%.
Lower gas prices have an important important asset.
We continue to believe liquidity, driven by solid operational effect, as gas generally sets the price of power there is significant value in owning power performance, selected asset sales at in our markets, and although we clearly generation capacity in the UK, given the extremely good values, a successful early benefit from relatively lower fuel costs, this scale of impending plant retirements, and extension of our corporate banking facility was more than outweighed by lower power the uncertainty on future investments.
High and conclusion of major refinancings.
Lower demand, high levels of storage, levels of plant availability, and the flexibility and plentiful supply have all contributed to and diversity of our portfolio, enabled us to Our performance in 2009 again lower gas prices that were some 70% capture significant value at times of power demonstrates the strength of our down on peak 2008 levels.
Despite these and gas price volatility.
We were also strongly international portfolio.
We have a blend of challenges, our plants performed well, forward contracted for 2009, and this merchant and long-term contracted assets with high availability ensuring we captured protected us from lower margins caused by across both developed and developing maximum value.
Not surprisingly, our lower power demand and lower gas prices.
This platform profitability in North America was down We continue to have a good level of forward provides both resilience and attractive some 24% on 2008.
Given our very strong contracting for much of 2010. growth opportunities.
cash flow and liquidity, we decided in In continental Europe, our assets performed Health and safety is a key part of our wider December to temporarily pay down the well.
The major event in the year was the corporate responsibility, and is core to our US$769 million of US non-recourse project sale of our Czech business for 593 million, day-to-day activities.
I am pleased to report debt that was due to mature in mid-2010.
crystallising very significant value for our that the accident frequency rate at our Although there were refinancing options shareholders and recording a 427 million operational plants remains at a low level, available, we concluded that temporary post-tax profit on sale.
Our new-build similar to that established in 2008. repayment was in the best economic projects in Portugal and Belgium 830MW Our behavioural safety programme, known interests of shareholders.
We continually and 420MW gas-fired plants respectively, as Fresh Eyes, continues to gain momentum, monitor this position.
both with long-term offtake contracts are and the improvement in performance at We are pleased to have added a renewable progressing well, and on target to reach many of our plants is attributable, at least portfolio in Canada, through the acquisition commercial operation in 2011. in part, to this programme.
of 40MW of operational wind capacity plus Our Middle East portfolio comprises Details of our regional operational and 40MW under construction and a pipeline of long-term contracted assets, where we take financial performance are set out in the advanced development projects located in little or no pricing or volume risk we are regional reviews, but these are the highlights.
Ontario, a market which provides attractive paid for having our capacity available, and long-term contracts.
The environmental Page Regional reviews pages 12 to 14 our operational track record here continues debate continues in North America, but there to be excellent.
We do earn additional income is no clear path forward.
We continue to be through the achievement of performance actively engaged in the regulatory debate, targets, and this is a further reason why we and are well placed, given our efficient have key long-term operational roles in these gas-fired fleet.
Our existing assets all performed backdrop is still uncertain, the fundamentals well during 2009, and our large-scale project of our markets remain attractive, and we are under construction at Fujairah a 2,000MW well positioned to benefit from recovery.
5 gas-fired plant, together with a desalination coal.
The debate is centred on how the 2009 presented many challenges, and the plant producing 130 million imperial gallons environmental, economic and social good performance across the Group is of water a day is on plan to reach commercial dimensions of this subject can be reconciled.
testament to the quality, skill, enthusiasm, operation on a phased basis during 2010.
We remain very actively engaged at both and commitment of everyone within the The Middle East markets in which we operate state and federal government levels.
Given International Power team worldwide.
I would have been much less impacted by the global the uncertainty in the market, we are not like to thank everyone for their efforts and economic recession, and growth prospects forward contracted post July 2011, which achievements.
We go into 2010 with the remain strong.
We are, and expect to is the provisional date for the introduction outlook for the global economy still continue to be, active in bidding on growth of a CO trading scheme.
Forward margins, particularly 2 projects across these markets in both the context, we were pleased to conclude the in North America and the UK, are at the short and medium-term, as new power restructuring of the non-recourse project low points in their cycles, but the strong and water capacity is such a fundamental debt at our Hazelwood brown coal-fired fundamentals across our international building block underpinning the growth plant in early 2010. portfolio mean that we are well placed to of these economies.
We continue to review both grow our operational platform and Our Asian portfolio had another good year.
new markets that may be attractive for our benefit from economic recovery.
In terms Like the Middle East, all our assets are business, with North Africa a particular focus.
of growth, we continue to look at a range long-term contracted, which means that of opportunities, and in this context we held Australia had a much improved 2009, operational standards and plant availability preliminary discussions with GDF Suez to principally driven by good operational are the key drivers of financial performance.
see if there was value for our shareholders performance in terms of plant availability, Our assets across Thailand, Pakistan and in combining certain GDF Suez power which enabled us to capture value at times Indonesia all achieved availability levels above assets with International Power.
This was the case, both for that targeted in their long-term offtake discussions were discontinued.
our major coal-fired plants in Victoria, and for contracts, and in 2009 we benefited from our gas-fired peaking plants in South Australia.
a full year of increased ownership in Uch, We go forward with enthusiasm and Climate change continued to dominate the in Pakistan.
We continue to be active in confidence, as we have a very strong base 2009 political debate in Australia, but how and greenfield developments in the region, from which we can deliver our goal of when carbon dioxide CO legislation will be and in January 2010, we announced that creating shareholder value namely, a very 2 enacted is still uncertain.
This is clearly very we will build a 110MW plant in Thailand, high quality asset portfolio, good long-term important for the power generation sector, close to our existing plant, selling the majority fundamentals across our international given that some 80% of Australias electricity of its output under a long-term contract to markets, an experienced and committed is generated by coal-fired plants, which are the state utility.
At Paiton in Indonesia, we team, and a healthy balance sheet backed on average relatively high in CO emissions.
have signed the financing for an 815MW by very strong cash flow.
2 However, coal-fired power generation expansion, which is an excellent example of provides Australia with enormous benefits, utilising our existing installed base to deliver both in terms of cheap electricity as a project that is very good value to both us measured by international standards and and our customer.
On the wider front, we in terms of security of supply, given Australias continue our focused development activities vast indigenous reserves of black and brown across this high growth region.
Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer 6 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Our portfolio The following tables set out details in relation to our operating plants, assets under construction and other significant business interests as at 8 March 2010.
Location Fuel plant type Gross capacity IPR Net capacity Gross capacity Net capacity Contractual power MW ownership % power MW heat MWth heat MWth position desal MIGD desal MIGD steam t h steam t h Assets in operation North America IP Canada Wind Portfolio Canada Wind 40 100 40 PPA 2028 Calumet Illinois Gas OCGT 303 100 303 Merchant Bellingham Massachusetts Gas CCGT 539 100 539 Merchant Blackstone Massachusetts Gas CCGT 488 100 488 Merchant Milford Massachusetts Gas CCGT 160 100 160 Merchant Troy Ohio Gas oil OCGT 616 100 616 Merchant Armstrong Pennsylvania Gas oil OCGT 625 100 625 Merchant Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667 Merchant Hays Texas Gas CCGT 913 100 913 Merchant Midlothian Texas Gas CCGT 1,423 100 1,423 Merchant Oyster Creek Texas Gas Cogen CCGT 440 50 220 100MWth 50MWth PPA 2014 Pleasants West Virginia Gas oil OCGT 313 100 313 Merchant EcoElctrica Puerto Rico LNG CCGT 548 35 192 PPA 2022 North America total in operation 7,075 6,499 Europe IPR European Germany, Italy, Wind Portfolio France, Netherlands Wind 1,189 100 1,189 Regulated tariff ISAB Italy Gas IGCC 562 34 193 PPA 2020 Tejo Energia Pego Portugal Coal 628 50 314 PPA 2021 Turbogs Portugal Gas CCGT 1,008 100 1,008 PPA 2024 Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro solar 88 67 58 PPA 2030-2065 Uni-Mar Marmara Turkey Gas CCGT 488 33 162 PPA 2020 Deeside UK Gas CCGT 500 75 375 Merchant Derwent UK Gas CCGT 214 23 49 190t h 44t h PPA 2010 First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566 Merchant Indian Queens UK Oil OCGT 140 75 105 Merchant Rugeley UK Coal 50MW of OCGT 1,050 75 788 Merchant Saltend UK Gas CCGT cogen 1,200 75 900 135t h 100t h Merchant Europe total in operation 9,155 6,707 Middle East Hidd Bahrain Gas CCGT desalination 1,006 40 402 90MIGD 36MIGD PPA 2027 Al Kamil Oman Gas OCGT 276 65 180 PPA 2017 Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas CCGT desalination 1,055 40 422 60MIGD 24MIGD PPA 2033 Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas Cogen 1,076 60 646 2,040t h 1,225t h PPA 2026 Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas CCGT desalination 1,572 20 314 100MIGD 20MIGD PPA 2025 Umm Al Nar UAE Gas CCGT desalination 2,450 20 490 143MIGD 29MIGD PPA 2026 Middle East total in operation 7,435 2,454 Australia Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46 PPA 2015 Pelican Point South Australia Gas CCGT 487 100 487 Merchant Synergen South Australia Gas distillate 371 100 371 Merchant Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541 Merchant Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718 PPA 2016 Kwinana Western Australia Gas CCGT 118 49 58 96t h 47t h PPA 2021 Australia total in operation 3,723 3,221 Asia 1 Paiton Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423 PPA 2040 HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219 PPA 2027 KAPCO Pakistan Gas oil CCGT 1,600 36 576 PPA 2021 Uch Pakistan Gas oil CCGT 572 75 429 PPA 2023 2 2 TNP Pluak Daeng Thailand Gas Cogen 143 100 143 7.7MWth 7.7MWth PPA 2025 Asia total in operation 4,970 1,790 Total in operation around the world 32,358 20,671 7 Location Fuel plant type Gross capacity IPR Net capacity Gross capacity Net capacity Contractual power MW ownership % power MW heat MWth heat MWth position desal MIGD desal MIGD steam t h steam t h Assets under construction IP Canada Wind Portfolio Canada Wind 40 100 40 PPA 2030 T-Power Belgium Gas CCGT 420 33 140 Tolling 2026 IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy Wind 30 75 23 Regulated tariff Elecgas Portugal Gas CCGT 830 50 415 Tolling 2036 Fujairah F2 UAE Gas CCGT desalination 2,000 20 400 130MIGD 26MIGD PPA 2030 Synergen South Australia Gas distillate 24 100 24 Merchant 1 Paiton 3 Indonesia Coal 815 31 253 PPA 2042 HUBCO Narowal Pakistan Oil 214 17 36 PPA 2035 HUBCO Laraib Pakistan Hydro 84 13 11 PPA 2038 2 2 TNP2 Thailand Gas Cogen 110 100 110 4.2MWth 4.2MWth PPA 2037 Total under construction 4,567 1,452 Location IPR ownership % Description Other businesses Opus Energy UK 30 Independent supplier of electricity to small and medium-sized businesses Simply Energy Victoria and South Australia 100 Electricity and gas retailer SEA Gas pipeline Victoria and South Australia 33 687km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia Notes: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
1 In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
8 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Strategy and Group overview Portfolio by geography Portfolio by fuel type Portfolio by contract type 31% North America 61% Gas 34% Long-term contracted 32% Europe 21.5% Coal 28% Uncontracted 12% Middle East 8% Pumped storage 24% Short-term contracted 16% Australia 6% Wind 8% Pumped storage 9% Asia 3% Oil 6% Wind 0.5% Hydro One-year forward average from 8 March 2010 Note: All charts presented based on net MW basis, excluding assets under construction, as at 8 March 2010. International Power is a leading independent As electricity is critical for any economy, Maximising the value power generation company with interests governments carefully decide whether or of our existing portfolio in 32,358MW gross of power generating not they wish to liberalise this key sector.
Our specific strategies for value enhancement capacity, across five core regions North Several governments have retained full in each country and for each individual plant 020406080100 America, Europe, Middle East, Australia control of the sector while others have fully are tailored to local requirements, but and Asia.
liberalised both the production and supply generally we seek to achieve the following: of electricity.
The skills required for operating Building on our power generation skills, we Optimise the operations of our in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised use our capabilities to develop and operate power plants contracted markets are very different closely-linked businesses.
These include the We optimise the operation of our power and we have both.
production of fresh water through sea water plants through several means including: desalination, the production of steam, small The , contracted managing all of our sites to high standards retail businesses, open-cast coal mining and markets typically offer opportunities to sell of safety and operating performance: gas transportation.
02 power to 04 governm 06 ent bod08 ies via lon01 g-term 00 managing our business on a portfolio basis: power purchase agreements PPAs that closely co-ordinating plant operations A portfolio approach offer stable returns.
Assets in the merchant with trading to maximise the value of We manage our business through a portfolio markets are subject to the forces of supply our output: standardising management 020406080100 management approach, which involves and demand, and these markets are generally reporting for all investments: and investing maintaining a balance in the portfolio in more volatile.
Both these markets offer in improved plant efficiency.
terms of geographical spread, fuel diversity, attractive risk reward environments Maximise the return from our portfolio technology and contract type.
We optimise operations as described gives us access to multiple opportunities International Power maintains a balanced above and we leverage our investments, to create value whilst mitigating the risks presence in both types of market, providing particularly by using non-recourse finance associated with overexposure to any the business with a stable platform of at the project company level.
We sell particular market, fuel, technology or long-term contracted earnings and cash flow, businesses if this generates a higher rate contract type.
overlaid by merchant generation which offers of return for shareholders.
This portfolio approach also extends to greater potential for superior returns when our operational capabilities.
We are able to market conditions are favourable.
We also operate a range of power plant technologies, ensure that lessons learned in any particular including thermal, hydro, pumped storage market are shared across the business.
These technologies produce electricity using different fuel types that include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such as wind, water and sun.
This multitechnology expertise allows us to capture opportunities that are best suited to the market in question.
9 Portfolio growth net GW 20.6 2009 2008 21.3 2007 18.8 2006 18.5 15.9 2005 2004 15.3 2003 10.6 2002 10.5 2001 8.9 2000 8.3 North America Europe Middle East Australia Note: Asia Chart presented based on net GW basis, excluding assets under construction, as at 31 December.
Our growth The Middle East, Africa, and Asia continue to offer significant short and medium-term The Group has grown significantly in the last five years, increasing its net operational growth opportunities.
We are actively evaluating a number of new greenfield capacity by more than 5,000MW through both successful acquisitions and greenfield projects across these markets in Morocco, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Indonesia, developments.
In 2009, the Company received offers for the Hartwell plant Thailand and Vietnam.
We continue to extract additional value from our existing in North America, and the business in the Czech Republic.
The offers provided sites, for example in Indonesia where we signed the financing for the 815MW an opportunity to crystallise excellent value for shareholders, with an attractive rate of coal-fired Paiton 3 plant located within the existing Paiton complex in March 2010. return on investment, and consequently both businesses have been sold the regional Our geographic footprint, in-depth market reviews provide more detail on these sales.
knowledge and strong customer relationships Page Regional reviews pages 12 to 14 continue to present us with multiple growth opportunities, both new-build and acquisition.
International Power now has an operational interest in over 45 power stations, with 32,358MW of gross capacity, and 20,671MW of net capacity, reflecting our ownership percentage.
Growth continues to be a key strategic objective for International Power, and we have clear investment criteria to ensure that our acquisitions and greenfield new-build projects deliver value for our shareholders.
We remain well placed to continue to grow our international portfolio.
The Groups strong free cash flow and corporate liquidity, together with access to project finance, provide good flexibility for financing growth opportunities.
0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 10 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management Our risk management philosophy is designed Corporate level Each year the business carries out a GroupPolicy, delegations and exposure limits are to deal with the diverse set of risks faced by wide risk review.
This is based on the our business and contains both bottom-up set at the corporate level, with the Board outcome of the business planning exercise, of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
and top-down elements to support the updated as necessary to take account of post identification, reporting and management Business practices, and engineering and business plan events.
The assessments are operational standards, are set centrally.
synthesised into a risk report that identifies all the principal risks, which is reviewed by the International Powers principal activities are Regional level Risk Committee.
Where risks are considered the development, acquisition and operation Market and trading risks are managed to exceed the Groups risk appetite, the Risk of power generation plants together with regionally within the framework set at Committee directs which actions are to be closely-related activities, such as desalination the corporate level.
Political risks are also taken.
The risk report is reviewed by the full and local retail businesses.
These principal managed regionally with support from Board.
Schematically, the annual risk report activities are supported by our network of the corporate centre.
system functions as below: regional and corporate offices which carry out activities such as trading, financial Business units management and treasury operations.
Risk assessments and mitigation action plans Review by full Board All of these activities have inherent risks.
are mainly originated in business units.
Health, safety and environmental HS&E compliance Risk management framework Review by Risk activities are also managed locally and Actions International Power owns, or has equity Committee regionally, within a central policy framework.
interests in, over 45 plants and some closely Local business managers are accountable linked businesses located in 21 countries.
Synthesis by risk report for managing the risks within their areas working group Our portfolio contains all major technologies of responsibility.
This principle also applies and fuel types with the exception of nuclear to the managers of our regional and Risk assessment by business power.
Overall, around 65% of the portfolio corporate functions.
units and functions entered service less than 15 years ago.
Geographically the portfolio is diverse, having There is a process for identifying, evaluating a presence in developed and developing and managing the key risks faced by the In order to compare risks across the Group countries with a variety of cultural, political Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the on a systematic basis, we segment them as and legal systems.
Our risk management Risk Committee, which is chaired by the shown below.
In reality, certain risk exposures philosophy is designed to deal with the Chief Financial Officer CFO and comprises interact and other exposures apply to more diverse set of risks faced by our business.
Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
than one segment for example, regulatory To reflect the profile of our business, we risk applies to all of our activities.
Such have developed a system that contains The Risk Committee has responsibility, cross-segmental risks are assessed in each both bottom-up and top-down elements on behalf of the Board, for ensuring: of the areas in which they occur.
to support the identification, reporting the adequacy of systems for identifying and management of risks.
and assessing significant risks Financial risks Construction and that appropriate control systems and operational risks other mitigating processes are in place Market and trading risks Health, safety and that residual exposures are consistent environmental risks with the Groups strategy and objectives During the business planning process, each Fuel supply risks Staffing and human resources risks significant business unit and functional group identifies and assesses the key risks associated Country, political and with the achievement of its principal business regulatory risks objectives and their potential impact.
During the year, significant changes in the risk profile are highlighted through the business performance reporting process.
11 Principal risks Risk Impacts Mitigating factors Adverse conditions in our financial volatility a rolling forward contracting programme typically aims to lock in margins electricity sales or fuel purchase reduction in profitability power sales and fuel purchases markets market spreads outturn and cash flow 34% of our net capacity has long-term contractual arrangements shielding below expectations potential impact our annual Group profitability from significant volatility on loan covenants Price volatility or changes in reduction in financial resources maintenance of financial headroom at the corporate level market conditions result in available for growth trading through investment grade entities exceptional trading credit reduced ability to forward for specific projects additional support is provided, for example Mitsui support requirements sell output provides a credit support facility for International Power Mitsui IPM trading in the UK Counterparty default risk financial volatility application of Group policies and procedures setting limits on trading reduction in profitability counterparty exposures and maintenance of financial headroom at the and cash flow corporate level structuring of project companies as stand-alone businesses and use of non-recourse project finance to limit Group impact Capital market access reduced availability and increased maintenance of strong liquidity cost of non-recourse project high credibility and experience in delivering bankable solutions and corporate financing strong banking relationships with major project financing banks worldwide reduced availability and increased maintenance of stringent project evaluation criteria cost for refinancings Unplanned availability losses reduction in profitability structured approach to the management of engineering and cash flow and site security risk potential impact on project appropriate budgeted spend on plant maintenance loan covenants strong corporate and asset operations and engineering teams Construction contracts adversely commercial terms and conditions long-standing relationships with all major EPC contractors influenced by market conditions more in favour of engineering, ongoing review of contracting strategies to meet changing procurement and construction market conditions EPC contractors new entrant pricing should reflect the cost of building new plant long lead times and delays in construction impacts growth timetable Changes in environmental reduction in profitability plant upgrades and carbon trading processes to meet new environmental regulatory regimes limit our and cash flow legislation in our developed markets ability to profitably operate potential impact on loan covenants new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines with proven environmental our fossil fuel plants increased potential capital technology expenditure to ensure longer asset approximately 6% of net operating capacity made up of wind generation lives under tighter legislation senior representation in industry groups and ongoing advocacy increased trading risk External factors changing weather patterns maintenance of a diversified portfolio, in terms of location, contract type and extreme climatic events can and fuel type impact on demand and pricing 12 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Regional reviews capacity payments under the Forward Capacity North America Profit from operations PFO in North Market, where capacity prices have been determined through to May 2013.
In 2009 America decreased 24% to 134 million compared to 177 million last year down capacity payments accounted for two-thirds of gross margin at Blackstone and Bellingham.
Financial performance was principally impacted by For 2010 we have forward contracted 60% of our expected output in New England.
weak market conditions and a lower write back of provisions at Coleto Creek relating to Following their acquisition in July 2008, the Troy Ohio out-of-the-money power contracts that were four peaking assets in PJM and MISO made in place when the asset was acquired.
In PJM capacity long-term contracted assets performed well.
prices have been determined through to May 2013, and following the capacity auction in In North America, the power sector continues to be dominated by the impact May 2009, the regulator has made certain anticipated changes to the rules that should of the recession on both power demand and gas prices.
Total demand in our major help counter the unusually large price reduction seen in the last auction.
The next markets of Texas and New England was down 5% and 6% respectively in the first 11 months auction for the period June 2013 to May 2014 will be held in May 2010. of 2009 compared to 2008.
For these reasons, combined with the impact of lower In October, we successfully completed the congestion pricing in South Texas, the acquisition of AIM PowerGen Corporation performance at Midlothian and Hays was AIM, one of Canadas largest independent down on 2008.
Midlothian achieved a wind farm developers, for an enterprise value consistent spark spread of US$13 MWh but of 122 million.
The portfolio is concentrated at a reduced load factor of 30% compared in Ontario, with 40MW of wind farms in to 40% in 2008.
Hays achieved a spark operation, with long-term feed-in tariffs.
spread of US$14 MWh 2008: US$21 MWh An additional 40MW was successfully project and load factor of 50% 2008: 65%.
In 2010 financed in October 2009 and is currently we expect Hays to run at a load factor of 40% under construction.
In addition, AIM is and Midlothian at 30%, and we have forward seeking feed-in tariff PPAs for additional contracted 40% of the expected output of new capacity.
The sale of our 50% interest in Hartwell, Coleto Creek achieved a dark spread of a 318MW gas and oil-fired peaking facility US$27 MWh, compared to US$30 MWh located in Georgia, was successfully in 2008, at an increased load factor of 95% completed in October, generating net 2008: 90%.
In 2008 Coleto Creeks full-year cash proceeds to International Power results benefited from a 56 million non-cash of some 33 million.
write back of fair value provisions made In December we announced the temporary against power contracts in place at repayment of US$769 million of debt secured acquisition.
In 2009 this non-cash write back on five US merchant plants located in Texas was 30 million.
There will be no material and New England, with a total generating write back in 2010.
The plant will undergo capacity of 3,523MW.
Our strong corporate a major planned outage this year to upgrade liquidity enabled this efficient capital the steam turbine.
We therefore expect a management, which was further enhanced lower load factor of 80% in 2010 and have by the benefit of accelerating the use of tax forward contracted 90% of expected output.
losses within the US business.
These assets In New England the achieved spark spread for had a low level of gearing at US$218 kW Bellingham and Blackstone increased from and there are a number of financing options US$19 MWh to US$24 MWh, but at a available, which will be reviewed in light of reduced load factor of 35% 2008: 45% due conditions in the US power and debt markets.
to the weak market conditions and lower than Overall, we continue our focus on cost average summer temperatures.
The long-term power purchase agreement PPA at Milford minimisation and efficient plant operation, particularly in light of current market ended in January 2009 and the plant is now participating in the merchant market at conditions.
We have high quality assets in the region that are well placed to capture reduced spark spreads.
Earnings in New England continue to be underpinned by value from periods of pricing volatility and from a recovery in market conditions.
All references to PFO in the regional reviews exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
13 In continental Europe operational availability Europe Middle East PFO in Europe increased 8% to 629 million of the wind portfolio has been good, In the Middle East, PFO increased 23% to although wind levels and resulting load from 581 million in 2008 up 7% at constant 85 million, up from 69 million last year currency, reflecting an improved contribution factors have been lower than long-term up 4% at constant currency.
The region averages, particularly in Germany.
In Italy, from Rugeley in the UK, which had an benefited from good overall operational extended outage in 2008, and a strong profitability was also impacted by the performance and a first full-year contribution reduction in oil prices.
performance at Saltend, also in the UK.
from the additional capacity at Ras Laffan B.
Our contracted plants in Iberia and Turkey As previously reported, at ISAB in Italy one Umm Al Nar, in the UAE, has concluded an continued to operate well and delivered of the two units is operational following agreement with the Abu Dhabi Water and a consistent financial performance.
the major incident in October 2008.
Good Electricity Company to extend the life of the In the UK, our results at Rugeley benefited progress is being made on the rebuild of the original plant 795MW and 48MIGD by a damaged unit and it is anticipated that the from the commissioning of flue gas further five years to December 2015.
This life desulphurisation FGD equipment in June, plant will return to full production in extension is the result of strong operational mid-2010.
and from a decrease in the cost of carbon.
performance and high maintenance Saltend performed strongly, achieving a spark standards at the plant.
Al Kamil, in Oman, Construction of the Elecgas plant in Portugal spread of 25 MWh 2008: 17 MWh at has signed an agreement with its offtaker, and the T-Power plant in Belgium continues a load factor of 85%.
It benefited from both the Oman Power and Water Procurement to progress well.
These two gas-fired projects its highly contracted position, which was Company, to sell an additional 14MW are both expected to reach commercial locked-in during the high power price of summer capacity from 2010-2012. operation on schedule in 2011. environment of 2008, and its ability to In the UAE, the construction programme capture lower market gas prices for short The sale of our Czech business to J&T Group for the Fujairah F2 project 2,000MW, was completed in November, and our 2009 periods of time.
First Hydro delivered a good 130MIGD is progressing and the project is financial performance.
As expected, PFO was results include the benefit of a 31 million expected to reach full commercial operation dividend paid by Prask Teplrensk down compared to 2008, following increased during 2010.
The plant will be commissioned availability of nuclear and coal plant on the 49% owned by International Power in July.
in three stages, the first stage 824MW, UK system.
Falling spreads and a major In continental Europe, 59% of our capacity 33MIGD is expected to come online in planned outage during the year resulted in operates under long-term contracts, and the the first half of 2010 and the final two Deesides achieved spark spread reducing remainder comprises renewable assets which stages, of 1,176MW and 97MIGD, will from 30 MWh in 2008 to 16 MWh, at operate in markets with favourable regulatory follow in the second half of the year.
Expected For 2010 we have forward contracted 75% The Middle East markets in which we operate plant retirements, unreliable aging generation of our expected output at Deeside, 95% have been much less impacted by the general capacity and an increasing focus on the at Rugeley and 95% at Saltend.
economic recession, and growth prospects environment, remain the key industry trends remain strong.
Demand for power and water in Europe.
Overall, we continue to see During 2008 and early 2009 the market in continues to grow, reflecting population Great Britain experienced exceptionally tight expansion opportunities in Europe, and our growth and the continuing diversification strong presence in regional markets ensures supply demand conditions, principally driven of the economies away from their historic by plant outages and delays in fitting FGD that we are well positioned to take advantage dependence on oil.
Our strong reputation of these opportunities.
We expect and track record of delivery across the region less pressure on the system in 2010 due to places us in a good position to continue to reduced demand and higher levels of supply.
deliver further growth across these markets.
In the longer-term, plant retirements, general We are active in bidding on growth projects uncertainty on plant reliability, intermittent across these markets and continue to review wind generation, and an uncertain timetable new markets that may be attractive for our on new-build will put the reserve margin business, with North Africa a particular focus.
Some 12,255MW of coal and oil-fired plant in the UK has opted out of the Large Combustion Plant Directive and is required to retire by 2016.
Depending on running regimes over the next few years, these plants could retire earlier, putting increased pressure on reserve margins ahead of 2016.
14 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Regional reviews Australia Asia PFO was up 40% at 233 million compared PFO in Asia was 128 million up 23% from to 167 million in the previous year up 104 million in 2008 up 9% at constant 27% at constant currency.
This increase currency, primarily driven by an increased was primarily driven by an improved contribution from Uch in Pakistan.
All of contribution from Hazelwood, strong our assets in the region delivered a strong performance at the Synergen peaking assets, operational performance and achieved which captured high prices during periods availability levels above those targeted Loy Yang B Victoria of hot weather, and a solid operational in their long-term offtake contracts.
In March 2010 we signed the Hazelwood, which had an unplanned boiler US$1,215 million financing for the 815MW repair outage in 2008, delivered a good coal-fired Paiton 3 plant in Indonesia, which operational performance in 2009 with an will be located within the existing Paiton achieved price of A$45 2008: A$43 at a complex.
The project, has a 30-year power load factor of 80% 2008: 75%.
For 2010, purchase agreement PPA with PT PLN, the we have forward contracted 50% of our Indonesian state utility, and construction is expected output load factor 80% at covered by a fixed price contract with the KAPCO Pakistan Hazelwood and expect to achieve an engineering, procurement and construction average price of A$43 MWh.
EPC contractor, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd.
It is expected to be fully operational by In October, we completed a A$425 million the end of 2012. project refinancing for the 687km SEA Gas pipeline.
The new facility will run until October Following the acquisition of an additional 31% 2012, and fully replaced the existing debt, of Uch in 2008, International Power acquired which was due to mature in December 2009. a further 3.18% of the plant from Hawkins Uch Holdings LDC in February 2010.
This In January 2010, the total existing nontakes our total ownership of the plant to 75%.
recourse debt of A$742 million of Hazelwood power station was restructured.
During 2009, HUBCO commenced the The previous two-tranche structure construction of the 214MW oil-fired Narowal comprising A$445 million Tranche B, which Power Station 17% owned by International was due to mature in February 2010, and Power, and the 84MW hydroelectric Laraib A$297 million Tranche A due to mature in Power project 13% owned by International 2014 was merged into a single facility with Power.
The Narowal project is expected to a maturity date of 30 June 2012 and a margin reach commercial operation by the end of of 400 basis points.
2010, and the Laraib project is expected to be online in 2013.
The equity in both projects will The pilot carbon dioxide CO capture 2 be funded from cash resources within HUBCO.
and storage plant at Hazelwood, which is part funded by the Federal and Victorian In January 2010, we announced the successful Governments, was commissioned in financing of TNP2, a 110MW project located mid-2009 and is successfully capturing up close to our existing project in Thailand, that to 25 tonnes of CO per day from the flue will sell the majority of its output under a 2 gas.
This is one of the largest pilot CO long-term contract to the state utility, EGAT.
2 capture projects of its kind in Australia and The new plant will be constructed by demonstrates our commitment to further Ishikawajima Heavy Industries Jurong under improve environmental performance.
a fixed-price, turnkey EPC contract and is expected to be operational in 2012.
The wider global economic slowdown has had relatively limited impact in Australia.
Demand for power throughout Asia Long-term peak power demand in South continues to grow strongly.
New generation Australia and Victoria is still expected to grow capacity is required, not only reflecting at around 1.5% per annum, and the expected economic growth, but also the progressive supply demand balance remains attractive.
expansion of distribution grids aimed at We have a diverse asset portfolio fuel and connecting more of the population to the technology in Australia and our plants are power network.
Through our successful track well positioned to capture value.
The most record, we have developed a good reputation significant issue impacting the Australian and strong long-term relationships with power market remains the proposed Carbon state-owned customers and key stakeholders Pollution Reduction Scheme CPRS legislation, in the region.
This places us in a good position which has been passed by the Lower House to source and deliver on new opportunities of the Federal Parliament, but awaits debate and we will continue our focused development in the Upper House the Senate.
activities across this high growth region.
15 Corporate responsibility For a global power generation business like 2009 environmental performance International Power, corporate responsibility Climate change and CO emissions 2 CR means following fair and ethical principles to govern the way we manage and Carbon intensity conduct our business.
We measure the carbon intensity of each unit of electricity generated across our CR forms an integral part of our business portfolio.
We use net reporting for CO, 2 decision making process and contributes to which reflects our ownership interest in a our competitiveness and reputation.
Our Tihama Saudi Arabia power plant and therefore includes the net commitment is to ensure that International MW of joint ventures and associates, and Power is a responsible, efficient and successful also the electricity equivalent of energy company.
Our stakeholders shareholders, used to generate products such as employees, customers, suppliers, regulators desalinated water and process heat.
The and host communities expect nothing less average carbon intensity of International of us, and we aim to deliver on this.
Powers global portfolio has fallen in recent It is important that we operate our business in years from 0.736 kg kWh equivalent in a manner which is sustainable.
This means we 2005 to 0.653 kg kWh equivalent in 2009. need to retain our competitiveness today and Hays Texas Generating electricity efficiently ensure we continue taking steps so that our We use state-of-the-art, high efficiency business is well positioned for the future.
turbines with proven environmental technology at our newly-built plants.
For Health, safety and environmental example, at Fujairah F2 in the UAE, we are management constructing a new 2,000MW, 130MIGD CR matters relating to International Powers power and desalination plant, which is activities are governed by the Executive scheduled to reach commercial operation Management Team, with the Chief Executive in 2010.
The desalination process is able Officer CEO having overall responsibility.
to make use of waste heat from the power The CEO is assisted by the Company station and the combined process has a Secretary, the Head of Operations and very high thermal efficiency of over 65%.
Engineering, the Corporate Environment Manager and the Corporate Health and We are reviewing the thermal efficiency Safety Manager.
The CEO gives CR briefings at our power stations in all regions and to the Board at every Board meeting, and the implementing improvement programmes.
Board also receives a summary of GroupThese range from steam turbine upgrades, wide CR issues in the annual risk report.
improving combustion conditions and reducing the electricity used on site.
For The global HS&E management committee example, Loy Yang B in Australia has reviews the overall performance of businesses undertaken several improvement across the Group and defines global HS&E programmes which have reduced the CO 2 standards and targets.
The global emissions intensity by 5% from 2001 to management committee is supported by 2008 and reduced total CO emissions by 2 regional HS&E management committees, 580,000 tonnes over the same period.
which include representation from each plant.
Investing in low carbon fossil fuel We strengthened our CR governance by generation establishing a Board-level HS&E Committee In 2009, we continued to invest in the in 2008, to oversee HS&E policy and the development of low carbon technologies.
performance of the HS&E management Our carbon capture and storage project committee.
It reviews HS&E reports as at Hazelwood, in Australia, made good well as any major incidents and issues of progress.
The pilot project first went live public concern.
It meets at least twice a in April 2009 and has been successfully year at different power stations, where the capturing 25 tonnes of CO per day.
The 2 Committee also discusses HS&E issues with CO is removed from the flue gas and will 2 the plant manager and relevant on-site staff.
be sequestered by mixing it with ash water to form calcium carbonate chalk, which has numerous potential uses from building materials to adhesives.
16 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility Expanding renewables Employees Accident frequency rate In 2009 we continued to expand our To communicate key issues effectively, a Accident frequency rate AFR is defined renewables portfolio, which now has an variety of communication channels have been as the number of lost time accidents LTAs aggregate capacity of 1,333MW.
Management briefings and divided by the number of hours worked, to further expand our renewables portfolio functional forums are good examples of multiplied by 100,000.
We define a LTA by acquisition and organic growth through these.
We also produce an internal as 24-hours absence from work this is a working with local developers.
International Power magazine interconnect much tighter definition than the usual legal that is distributed globally to all International requirement of three days absence from Measures to control other environmental Power sites and offices.
We also include contractors in our impacts contains details on major Group news, accident statistics, which is not common International Power has invested significant industry developments that directly affect the practice.
This approach to reporting helps capital in flue gas desulphurisation FGD, Group, updates on regional progress and us to improve our understanding and a process that is fitted to coal-fired power features on CR.
In 2009, International Power management of health and safety at our sites.
stations to remove sulphur from emissions.
continued to roll-out IPR Connect, an FGD was already installed at our Paiton plant Reportable environmental incidents intranet-based knowledge platform providing in Indonesia and during 2009 was installed at Our power plants are issued with corporate employees across the Group with Rugeley and Pego, enabling these two power environmental licences by the relevant access to key information, services, policies stations to comply with the revised EU Large statutory authorities.
Environmental licences and collaborative working areas.
Combustion Plant Directives restrictions on require that any significant environmental sulphur dioxide SO emissions.
We have a policy of 2 Business ethics and social complying with all environmental regulations performance Health and safety and we measure our ability to comply Our business partners range from It is important to provide all personnel at our by recording the number of reportable governments and multi-national sites with a safe place to work, and we seek to environmental incidents at plants where organisations through to local and small minimise any injuries to our staff.
energy providers, whose ultimate customers A key focus for 2009 has been active rely on the generation of electricity for their In 2009 there were 15 reportable monitoring.
This looks at measures being well-being.
Local business customs and environmental incidents.
These incidents taken to prevent accidents and ill-health, in practice may vary considerably but, as a have increased in comparison to the very contrast to recording accidents, which is a company committed to certain business low figure last year, but were predominately reactive measure.
Active monitoring includes values, it is important that we operate with associated with relatively minor events, such training hours, the number of behavioural ethical integrity in our business conduct as waste water discharges which were safety observations, safety tours performed throughout the world.
We therefore apply retained within the site boundary.
This active and uniform standards across the Group which Technical availability reactive monitoring data is compared on a are set out in our Code of Business Conduct.
Technical availability measures when a plant regional basis, providing a global perspective The fundamental principle is that the is available for dispatch.
An important aspect on the best balance of measures to improve conduct of our business will be characterised of our business is ensuring that our merchant health and safety performance.
by honesty and integrity, ensuring that power trading and power purchase we are seen as a good neighbour and We are now two years into our behavioural agreements PPAs are closely aligned to our a responsible and contributing member safety programme known as Fresh Eyes, operational activities and availability planning of the communities we serve.
which is a key active measure widely adopted is a key factor in this regard.
Fresh Eyes continues to gain momentum and many plants businesses Non-financial KPIs are seeing improvements in their health and Year ended 31 December safety performance which are attributable, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 at least in part, to this programme.
1 AFR 0.10 0.09 0.12 0.16 0.23 1 2 Reportable environmental incidents 15 3 9 14 15 3 Technical availability 91.9% 89.1% 90.0% 89.6% 90.1% Notes: 1 D ata on accident frequency rates and reportable environmental incidents is provided for those assets where we have operational control.
In addition, note that the European Wind Portfolio is currently excluded from this reporting.
2 Reportable environmental incidents are incidents where the reporting of an exceedance of emissions limits to the relevant authority resulted in a requirement to review existing operating practices.
3 Technical availability is calculated on a gross MW basis.
17 Financial position and resources A summary of the Groups financial performance during the year is as follows: Income statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 Deeside UK mark to market movements: Revenue including joint ventures and associates 4,901 4,891 Profit from operations from subsidiaries 907 820 from joint ventures and associates 250 229 Profit from operations 1,157 1,049 Net finance costs 439 368 Profit before tax 718 681 Taxation 113 123 HUBCO Pakistan Profit for the year 605 558 Attributable to: Minority interests 97 69 Equity holders of the parent 508 489 Earnings per share basic 33.4p 32.4p Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements: Profit from operations 1,399 1,155 Profit for the year 1,143 930 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 996 838 Earnings per share basic 65.5p 55.5p The comparatives have been restated to reflect the change of accounting policies relating to convertible bonds and retirement benefit obligations.
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Exceptional items before tax amount to a profit of 354 million 2008: loss of 57 million.
This comprises the following offsetting gains and losses: Profit on disposal of International Power Opatovice of 427 million Profit on disposal of Hartwell of 22 million Impairment of Levanto wind farms by 70 million Impairment of investment in Eggborough by 25 million In November 2009, the Group completed the sale of International Power Opatovice, and its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans 49% owned by International Power, to the Czecho-Slovak investment firm J&T Group.
Net consideration from the disposal, after costs, was 593 million and the profit on disposal was 427 million.
There was no tax charge associated with this disposal.
In October 2009, International Power, together with its joint venture partner, completed the sale of Hartwell Energy, a 318MW gas and oil-fired peaking facility located in Georgia, US, to Oglethorpe Power Corporation.
Net proceeds from the 50% stake in Hartwell Energy amounted to 33 million and the profit on disposal was 22 million.
A tax charge of 8 million has also been recognised on this sale.
Based on revised long-term wind forecasts for some of our Levanto wind farms in Germany, the carrying value of these assets has been impaired by 70 million, offset by a corresponding deferred tax credit of 19 million.
Following an assessment of future cash flows based on current forward market spreads, we have written down a fully paid and exercised option to acquire a 10% minority stake in Eggborough power station, by 25 million.
There was no tax charge associated with this impairment.
18 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Financial position and resources Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in profit before tax for the year are net gains of 230 million 2008: gains of 529 million.
311 million 2008: 172 million related to decreases in forward commodity prices in the UK, US and Australia, offset principally by mark to market losses of 109 million 2008: gain of 389 million relating to the convertible bonds.
Tax on total mark to market movements during the year was a charge of 57 million 2008: 159 million.
Uni-Mar Turkey Interest Net interest expense at 439 million is 71 million higher than 2008.
This is mainly due to the impact of the weakening of sterling on the translation of interest expense.
Tax The Group tax charge has decreased by 10 million to 113 million 2008: 123 million.
The effective rate of tax in 2009 is 23%, which is 1% higher than the rate in 2008.
Both 2009 and 2008 have benefited from the resolution of some historic tax issues across the Group.
Cash flow A summary of the Groups cash flow and a reconciliation to net debt is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Profit for the year 1,143 930 Depreciation and amortisation 378 298 1 Non-cash items and other movements 342 173 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 146 135 Capital expenditure maintenance 148 108 Sale of property, plant and equipment 1 Net sale of intangible assets 47 25 Movement in working capital 101 109 Tax and net interest paid 535 485 Free cash flow 791 513 Australian stamp duty exceptional 6 7 Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt 33 Capital expenditure growth 115 156 Purchase of intangible assets growth 8 Investments in net of returns from joint ventures, associates and investments 18 58 Acquisitions 76 614 Disposals 638 Dividends paid 195 166 Proceeds from share issue 3 10 Net payments to receipts from minority interests 110 28 Other movements in debt 36 119 Decrease increase in net debt 876 372 Opening net debt 6,318 4,662 Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 49 2 Net debt on disposal of subsidiaries 121 Effect of foreign exchange thereon 311 1,282 Closing net debt 5,059 6,318 Notes: 1 Non-cash items and other movements are set out in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
They include income statement charges for interest, tax, specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
The comparatives have been restated to reflect the change of accounting policies relating to the embedded derivative pertaining to the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 and retirement benefit obligations.
19 Free cash flow for the year at 791 million was very strong, increasing by 278 million compared to 2008.
The increase is primarily due to the increase in profitability and a 210 million year-on-year favourable movement in working capital.
Working capital has improved due to a reduction in coal stocks at Rugeley, which were built up as a result of flue gas desulphurisation FGD construction delays in 2008, a catch up on the sale of green certificates in Maestrale in 2009, and a reduction in debtors at the end of 2009 in both the US and UK.
Interest and tax payments were 50 million higher principally as a result of the impact of the weakening of sterling on the retranslation of the overseas interest and tax Tejo Energia Portugal payments.
Maintenance capex was 40 million higher in 2009, with a major planned outage at Deeside being the biggest contributor to this increase.
Growth capex is 41 million lower in 2009, principally as a result of a reduced spend on FGD at Rugeley in 2009.
Acquisitions comprise net consideration paid for the AIM PowerGen portfolio, and a final payment relating to the acquisition of our share in the T-Power project in Belgium in 2008.
Disposal proceeds relate to the sale of International Power Opatovice and its interests in its joint ventures, and to the sale of Hartwell in the US.
Summary statement of financial position The Groups net assets are analysed as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Goodwill and intangibles 1,053 1,137 Property, plant and equipment 7,041 7,318 Investments 1,697 1,803 Long-term receivables and others 1,638 1,945 Non-current assets 11,429 12,203 Net current liabilities excluding net debt items 119 137 Non-current liabilities excluding net debt items 1,440 1,707 Net debt 5,059 6,318 Net assets 4,811 4,041 Gearing 105% 156% Debt capitalisation 51% 61% Net debt joint ventures and associates 1,684 1,820 Non-current assets have reduced by 774 million, mainly due to the disposal of International Power Opatovice, including its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans, and the strengthening of sterling against the euro and US dollar during 2009, partially offset by the acquisition of AIM PowerGen.
Long-term receivables are lower than in 2008 following the impairment of the finance lease receivable relating to the Levanto wind farms.
In addition, property, plant and equipment has reduced by a further 74 million, being the excess of depreciation over capital expenditure in the year.
The strengthening of sterling against the euro and US dollar at the end of the reporting period for 2009 when compared to 2008, partially offset by a weakening of sterling against the Australian dollar, has also reduced net debt by 311 million.
Debt capitalisation has reduced from 61% to 51% following the disposal of International Power Opatovice and Hartwell, and the strong profitability and cash generation of the Group during 2009.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow generation.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held cash at the corporate level of 549 million 2008: 354 million, and 644 million 2008: 775 million at the project company level.
Debt comprises project level debt of 5,407 million 2008: 6,547 million and corporate debt comprising three convertible bonds with a book value of 845 million 2008: 900 million.
In July, International Power signed a US$780 million forward start revolving credit facility with its relationship banks, which will run until October 2012.
The new facility is available for general corporate purposes and replaces the existing US$850 million facility that was due to expire in October 2010.
20 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors Bruce Levy 54 He was a member of the Managing Board of Chairman Executive Director, North America Heidelberg Cement AG until the end of 2008 Sir Neville Simms FREng 65 Bruce was appointed to the Board in June and was previously the Chief Executive of Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director 2005, and is responsible for all aspects of Hanson PLC, from April 2002 to October of National Power in August 1998 and was performance in North America including 2007.
He joined Hanson in 1988 and held appointed Chairman of International Power plant operations, finance, energy trading various positions prior to his appointment in October 2000.
He is Deputy Chairman and business development.
Prior to joining as Chief Executive, including Finance Director of Ashridge Management College, Chairman the Company, he was Senior Vice President of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive of Hanson of the BRE Trust and Chairman of Equiniti.
and Chief Financial Officer at GPU, Inc. a Building Materials America.
Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director diversified energy production and distribution of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002, corporation.
Bruce is a member of the Electric John Roberts 64 Chairman of the governments Sustainable Power Supply Association, the national Non-Executive Director Procurement Task Force from 2005 to 2007 association of competitive power suppliers John became a Non-Executive Director and was a member of the Presidents in the US and was its Chairman until of the Company on 18 May 2006.
He is Committee of the CBI from 1998 to 2009.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was previously Chief Executive of United Executive Directors Steve Riley 48 Utilities PLC, a position he held for over six Philip Cox 58 Executive Director, Europe years.
Before that, he was Chief Executive of Steve was appointed to the Board in January Hyder Utilities and of Manweb.
He is a Fellow Chief Executive Officer Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 2004 and is responsible for managing all of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the aspects of performance in the European Institution of Engineering and Technology as Chief Financial Officer and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of International Power region including plant operations, finance, and the Association of Chartered Certified energy trading and business development.
John is Chairman of the Royal in December 2003.
He is responsible for the overall management of the Company, and Steve is a Chartered Engineer and joined the Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Remote Company in 1985 holding senior positions Energy Monitoring Holdings Limited and leading the Executive and Operational Teams in implementing the strategies approved by in two UK power stations before being Viking Consortium Holdings Limited.
John is appointed Managing Director, Australia in also a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock the Board.
Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior to joining the Company he was a January 2000.
Steve is a Non-Executive New Energy Investment Trust.
Director of Shanks Group plc, a leading Senior Vice President at Invensys.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison European waste management company.
Struan Robertson 60 Non-Executive Director Supermarkets PLC and Chairman of its Audit Committee, and is a member of the Ranald Spiers 54 Struan became a Non-Executive Director Executive Director, Middle East and Asia of the Company on 1 October 2004.
He Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Ranald was appointed to the Board in May is Chairman of the Health, Safety and 2008 as Executive Director, Middle East and Environment Committee.
He was Group Mark Williamson 52 Chief Financial Officer Asia, based in Abu Dhabi and Singapore.
He Chief Executive of Wates Group Ltd until January 2004.
Before that he was Executive Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer is responsible for managing all aspects of of International Power in December 2003. performance in these regions including plant Chairman of BP Asia Pacific.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director at Forth Ports plc, His responsibilities include financial control operations, finance and the development, and reporting, tax and risk management.
financing and construction of power and Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc, and Tomkins plc and is the Senior Mark joined the Company in September water desalination assets.
Ranald joined 2000 as Group Financial Controller, with National Power in 1993, having previously Independent Director of Salamander Energy plc.
Previously he was the Senior responsibility for the Groups financial spent 12 years with the BP Group.
Mark is a Chartered Accountant is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
and prior to joining the Company he was at FRSC and a Chartered Chemist.
Simon Group plc, where he was the Group David Weston 51 Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Financial Controller.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and David became a Non-Executive Director of the Anthony Tony Isaac 68 Company on 1 August 2009.
He is a member Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Non-Executive Director of the Group Management Committee of Tony became a Non-Executive Director Anglo American plc where he is Group Director Tony Concannon 46 of the Company in October 2000.
He is Executive Director, Australia of Business Performance, a position he has held the Senior Independent Director and was since 6 November 2009, having previously Tony was appointed to the Board in January Chairman of the Audit Committee until 2004 and is responsible for managing all been Anglos Group Technical Director and 1 April 2008.
He was previously the Chief Chief Executive of the Tarmac Group and Anglo aspects of performance in the Australian Executive of The BOC Group plc and is a region including plant operations, finance, Industrial Minerals.
Prior to joining Anglo Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger American in 2006, David spent 25 years with energy trading and business development.
Limited and Hogg Robinson Group plc.
Shell and he held a number of senior Tony is a Chartered Engineer and joined the management positions including President of industry in 1982.
He has previously worked in Alan Murray 56 Shell Canada Products, Chief Executive Officer a number of business areas including power Non-Executive Director of Shell Aviation Ltd. and Chairman and Chief station operations, trading and international Alan became a Non-Executive Director of Executive Officer of Shell Pakistan Ltd.
Tony was appointed the Company on 1 July 2007 and Chairman Chartered Engineer.
Chairman of the Energy Supply Association of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008. of Australia in December 2008.
21 Summary Directors remuneration report The role of the Remuneration Competitive: Balanced and performance related: Committee Total remuneration levels in comparison to The remuneration of the Executive Directors The Committee is responsible for: our chosen comparator group are reviewed incorporates both fixed and variable on an annual basis in order to ensure they elements.
the establishment of the remuneration are competitive and thereby to ensure that policy for Executive Directors Fixed elements including salary, pension International Power can retain and motivate and benefits are provided as part of the determination of the compensation top calibre executives.
and terms of employment including any The Committee undertook a review of the termination arrangements of Executive Variable elements are based upon the comparator group in 2009.
Prior to 2009, Directors and other senior executives achievement of specific and measurable the pay policy for the Executive Directors was of the Company shared and individual performance objectives to be competitive around the median of the over both the short and long-term that align approving all Company share plans, FTSE 41-80 group of companies, excluding the Executives rewards with the creation of including the establishment and financial services companies.
The review value for shareholders.
measurement of all performance concluded that significant changes had taken conditions, and pension plan arrangements place in the comparator group which had Shareholder aligned: tended to increase the number of companies monitoring the total compensation of Remuneration packages include significant included in the comparator group with Executive Directors in light of Group opportunities to acquire, and obligations to limited activity and executives based in UK.
and individual performance retain, International Power shares, consistent As a result the Committee agreed to establish with our strategy of building a strong share The principles of the remuneration a fixed group of 42 comparator companies ownership culture.
policy for Executive Directors ranked FTSE 25-90, at October 2009, but All Executive Directors, with the exception The Committee has based its Executive excluding those engaged in financial services, of the Chief Executive Officer CEO, have Director remuneration policy on the mining, oil exploration and property a requirement to hold shares equivalent to following principles to ensure that it remains development.
The requirement for the relevant to business needs.
In determining the salaries and benefits of the CEO is 150%.
As at 31 December 2009, all The Committee intends to maintain these Executive Directors, the Committee has regard Executive Directors fulfilled this requirement.
principles of remuneration for 2010, as the to the treatment of staff and management Committee believes they are delivering fair and generally within the Group, to ensure that an proportionate rewards to the Executive appropriate balance is maintained.
Directors based on the Groups performance, and it will continue to monitor and consider changes in light of developing market practice.
Directors beneficial interests as at 31 December 2009 The beneficial interest of the Directors in office at 31 December 2009 in the Ordinary Shares of the Company is shown in the table below.
As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Sir Neville Simms 210,000 200,000 Philip Cox 1,024,359 775,504 Mark Williamson 337,280 227,132 Tony Concannon 273,063 172,093 Bruce Levy 261,078 155,364 Steve Riley 389,673 283,805 Ranald Spiers 294,535 223,315 Tony Isaac 25,501 25,501 Alan Murray 10,000 10,000 Struan Robertson 10,663 10,663 John Roberts 25,000 25,000 1 David Weston 1 On the date of his appointment as a Director, 1 August 2009, David Weston did not hold any Ordinary Shares of the Company.
No Director had, at any time during the financial year, any beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking.
The middle market quotation of an International Power plc Ordinary Share as at the close of business on 31 December 2009 was 309.10 pence 2008: 240.25 pence and the daily quotations during the year ranged from 193.70 pence to 309.40 pence.
No changes to Directors share interests have taken place between 31 December 2009 and 8 March 2010.
22 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Summary Directors remuneration report 2009 Directors remuneration and interests Directors aggregate remuneration The table below shows the aggregate remuneration of the Directors of International Power plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Sir Neville Simms received a Chairmans fee of 285,000.
On 15 February 2009 Sir Neville was appointed Director and Chairman of Oasis International Power LLC, an associate company of International Power Holdings Ltd incorporated in the UAE, for which he receives an additional annual fee of US$150,000.
Sir Neville agreed to receive his fee from 1 April 2009 and accordingly received US$112,500 in respect of 2009.
For Philip Cox, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance 143,500 and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 17,317.
He also received a car allowance 15,000 and private medical insurance 1,379, which are included in Other benefits.
For Mark Williamson, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance 93,546 and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 3,989.
He also received a car allowance 12,000 and private medical insurance 1,792, which are included in Other benefits.
The Other benefits entry of 375,646 for Tony Concannon comprises elements delivered from the UK 60,847, in Australia 27,025 and to cover taxes paid under the Companys expatriate policy 287,774.
The UK total comprises a car allowance 12,000, private medical insurance 3,232 in respect of both UK and international cover, relocation support 762, which is tapering off from a previous relocation and other elements of the expatriate package 44,853.
The balance of the expatriate package medical costs and childrens schooling fees at 27,025 is provided locally in Australia.
The taxes paid by the Company in the UK and Australia are net of UK hypothetical tax paid by Tony Concannon in 2009, under the Companys expatriate policy.
The net tax liability for 2009 has been estimated by the Companys taxation specialists to be 287,774.
T he Other benefits entry for Steve Riley incorporates a company car allowance 12,000, private medical insurance 1,792, the payment of school fees 40,172 and the value of relocation support 18,151.
Bruce Levys payment in lieu of pension figure comprises contributions to a 401k Savings Plan US$11,324, a Retirement Plan US$16,284 and a Supplemental Retirement Plan US$242,570.
He also received a car allowance US$21,600, medical and dental insurance US$6,312, disability and life insurance US$3,329 and relocation support US$29,079, the total of which is included under Other benefits.
The values shown in the above table, including bonus, have been converted from US dollars to sterling using the average annual exchange rate of US$1.5593.
For Ranald Spiers the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance 77,405 and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 7,351.
He also received a car allowance 12,000, private medical insurance 3,709 in respect of both UK and international cover, an overseas allowance 50,000 and other benefits paid locally in the Middle East and Asia relating to his expatriate status 46,257 which are included in Other benefits.
As with Tony Concannon, the Group is committed to funding Ranald Spiers worldwide employment tax and social security liability in excess of what would be due if he were resident for tax purposes in the UK, and had not triggered an overseas tax liability.
As Ranald Spiers is primarily based in the UAE, however, such taxes and social security are typically expected to be less than or equivalent to the hypothetical taxes and social security deductions that are withheld from his UK income.
For Ranald Spiers the figure provided for 2008 is in respect of the period after his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008.
Tony Isaac received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 5,000 in respect of his role as Senior Independent Director.
Struan Robertson received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Committee.
John Roberts received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Alan Murray received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
David Weston received a basic fee of 20,834 and 2,083 for Committee participation following his appointment to the Board on 1 August 2009.
23 Summary financial statement The summary financial statement is a Independent auditor Basis of opinion summary of information in the Annual Report The independent auditors report on the We conducted our work in accordance 2009.
As such, it does not contain sufficient financial statements of the Group was with Bulletin 2008 3 The auditors statement information to allow as full an understanding unqualified and did not contain a statement on the summary financial statement in the of the results of the Group and state of affairs under either section 498 2 of the Companies United Kingdom issued by the Auditing of the Company or the Group and of their Act 2006 accounting records or returns Practices Board.
Our report on the Companys policies and arrangements concerning inadequate or accounts or Directors full annual financial statements describes the Directors remuneration as would be remuneration report not agreeing with basis of our audit opinion on those financial provided by the full Annual Report.
For further records and returns or section 498 3 statements, the Directors report and the information, the full consolidated financial failure to obtain necessary information Directors remuneration report.
statements, the independent auditors report and explanations.
and the Directors report which includes the Opinion full Directors remuneration report should be Independent auditors statement In our opinion the summary financial consulted.
These are contained in a separate to the members of International statement is consistent with the full annual document entitled Annual Report 2009.
Power plc financial statements, the Directors report Those shareholders who only receive the We have examined the summary financial and the Directors remuneration report of Summary Annual Report but would like to statement for the year ended 31 December International Power plc for the year ended receive, free of charge, the Annual Report for 2009 which comprises the consolidated 31 December 2009 and complies with the this or for future years should contact Equiniti, income statement, consolidated statement applicable requirements of section 428 of at the address set out on page 27. of comprehensive income, consolidated the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations statement of financial position, consolidated made thereunder.
This summary financial statement was statement of cash flows and summary approved by the Board on 8 March 2010 Directors remuneration report.
and signed on its behalf by: This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Richard Pinckard Senior Statutory Auditor Our work has been undertaken so that we for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor might state to the companys members those Chartered Accountants Mark Williamson matters we are required to state to them in 8 Salisbury Square Chief Financial Officer such a statement and for no other purpose.
London To the fullest extent permitted by law, we EC4Y 8BB do not accept or assume responsibility to 8 March 2010 anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Annual Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Summary Annual Report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
24 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Results Exceptional Results for Results Exceptional Results for excluding items and the year excluding items and the year ii exceptional specific exceptional specific restated items and IAS 39 items and IAS 39 specific IAS 39 mark to specific IAS 39 mark to mark to market mark to market i i market movements market movements i i ii movements movements restated ii restated m m m m m m Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 4,901 195 5,096 4,891 339 5,230 Less: share of joint ventures revenue 397 397 417 417 Less: share of associates revenue 1,033 1,033 992 992 Group revenue 3,471 195 3,666 3,482 339 3,821 Cost of sales 2,544 46 2,498 2,553 204 2,757 Gross profit 927 241 1,168 929 135 1,064 Other operating income 217 217 112 112 Other operating expenses 237 25 262 221 20 241 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 250 26 276 229 9 220 Profit from operations 1,157 242 1,399 1,049 106 1,155 Disposals of interests in businesses 449 449 Finance income 39 39 104 104 Finance expenses 478 107 585 472 366 106 Net finance costs 439 107 546 368 366 2 Profit before tax 718 584 1,302 681 472 1,153 Taxation 113 46 159 123 100 223 Profit for the year 605 538 1,143 558 372 930 Attributable to: Minority interests 97 50 147 69 23 92 Equity holders of the parent 508 488 996 489 349 838 Earnings per share: Basic 33.4p 65.5p 32.4p 55.5p Diluted 32.8p 62.7p 30.5p 34.6p All results are from continuing operations.
i T he Group separately presents certain items as exceptional.
These are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
In addition, in order to assist the reader in understanding the underlying business performance, the Group separately discloses within the income statement specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
ii The Group has changed its accounting policies in relation to convertible bonds and retirement benefit obligations.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Profit for the year 1,143 930 Other comprehensive income: Net gain loss on cash flow hedges 205 270 Exchange gains losses recognised on net investment hedges 58 155 Reclassification adjustments relating to foreign operations disposed of during the year 94 Exchange losses gains arising on translation of foreign operations 237 946 Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans 13 75 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 3 39 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 84 485 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,059 1,415 Attributable to: Minority interests 158 94 Equity holders of the parent 901 1,321 1,059 1,415 25 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2009 31 December 31 December 1 January 2009 2008 2008 restated restated m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 887 941 733 Other intangible assets 166 196 168 Property, plant and equipment 7,041 7,318 5,721 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,634 1,756 1,279 Other investments 63 47 13 Finance lease receivables 1,470 1,669 1,252 Other long-term receivables 103 124 91 Deferred tax assets 65 122 142 Derivative financial assets 30 45 Total non-current assets 11,429 12,203 9,444 Current assets Inventories 251 275 150 Trade and other receivables 812 949 713 Finance lease receivables 57 58 41 Derivative financial assets 442 477 223 Cash and cash equivalents 1,193 1,129 1,161 Total current assets 2,755 2,888 2,288 Total assets 14,184 15,091 11,732 Current liabilities Loans and bonds 745 421 539 Derivative financial liabilities 429 544 508 Trade and other payables 875 894 720 Current tax liabilities 354 389 203 Provisions 23 69 83 Total current liabilities 2,426 2,317 2,053 Non-current liabilities Loans and bonds 5,507 7,026 5,284 Derivative financial liabilities 302 522 634 Other payables 41 57 30 Retirement benefit obligations 97 82 5 Provisions 68 72 98 Deferred tax liabilities 932 974 831 Total non-current liabilities 6,947 8,733 6,882 Total liabilities 9,373 11,050 8,935 Net assets 4,811 4,041 2,797 Equity Share capital 761 759 751 Share premium account 436 431 411 Capital redemption reserve 145 145 145 Capital reserve 422 422 422 Revaluation reserve 1 2 9 Hedging reserve 176 376 84 Translation reserve 558 859 35 Retained earnings 2,381 1,570 961 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,526 3,808 2,632 Minority interests 285 233 165 Total equity 4,811 4,041 2,797 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 8 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by Philip Cox Mark Williamson Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 26 International Power Summary Annual Report 2009 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 1,143 930 Adjustments for: Tax expense 159 223 Net finance costs 546 2 Profit on disposals of interests in businesses 449 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 276 220 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 2 Profit on sale of intangible assets 47 14 Impairment of Levanto wind farms exceptional 70 Impairment of Milford plant exceptional 37 Impairment of available-for-sale investment exceptional 25 Australian stamp duty exceptional 20 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 311 172 Other non-cash movements 19 22 Decrease in provisions 51 80 Decrease in finance lease receivables 52 45 Other cash movements 41 38 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 378 298 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 146 135 Purchase of property, plant and equipment maintenance 148 108 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Purchase of intangible assets 22 47 Sale of intangible assets 69 72 Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 1,225 1,107 Decrease increase in inventories 9 76 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 151 109 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 59 76 Cash generated from operations 1,326 998 Taxes paid 105 86 Interest paid 455 457 Interest received 25 58 Free cash flow 791 513 Cash flows relating to exceptional items: Payment of Australian stamp duty exceptional 6 7 Net cash inflow from operating activities 785 506 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment growth 115 156 Purchase of intangible assets growth 8 Acquisitions net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and increase in stake, of subsidiaries 34 539 Acquisitions of joint ventures, associates and investments 6 75 Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary 563 Proceeds from disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 33 Investments in net of returns from joint ventures, associates and investments 18 58 Net cash inflow outflow from investing activities 423 836 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 195 166 Proceeds from share issue 3 10 Proceeds from new loans and bonds 187 2,065 Repayment of loans and bonds 1,076 1,577 Funding from minority interests 39 49 Funding repaid to minority interests 7 199 Distributions paid to minority interests 110 21 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 1,159 161 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 49 169 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,129 1,161 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes thereon 15 137 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,193 1,129 27 Shareholder services and information Electronic voting Dividend Reinvestment Plan service are available on the Shareview website.
You For the Annual General Meeting AGM you can As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you should note that for sales, the maximum online trade register your vote electronically by logging on to can choose to reinvest your money in the Companys size is 25,000 and for purchases 20,000.
To trade the following website.
You will need your voting shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
over the telephone, please call 0845 603 7037. reference numbers the three numbers shown The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money www www.
co. uk dealing on your Proxy Form.
by way of buying shares in the open market.
If you would like to receive further information and an www www.
co. uk application form for the International Power DRIP, Shareholder enquiries please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
If you have any queries on the following: Alternatively, if you have already registered for a transfer of shares Shareview portfolio with Equiniti, then log on to Individual Savings Accounts change of name or address your portfolio and click on company meetings.
Information on the International Power corporate lost share certificates Individual Savings Account ISA, which offers a lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of www www.
co. uk tax-efficient way of holding shares, can be obtained dividends directly into a bank or building society account from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, who can death of the registered holder of shares This is a service offered by Equiniti that also enables be contacted on 0845 300 0430. receiving duplicate copies of this report you to check your holdings in many UK companies and receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual helps you to organise your investments electronically.
Share dealing services Report in addition to the electronic version of the report Once you have registered for a portfolio, you can also Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write use this service to change your address details online for both the purchase and sale of shares.
This is a to them at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, as well as register your vote for a companys general postal service only.
For information on the low-cost Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, quoting meeting safely, securely and privately.
dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please International Power and including your shareholder contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082. reference number found on your share certificate.
Receive your Annual Report online Shareview dealing If you have access to the internet, in future you can Additional information can be found on the Equiniti Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share receive your copy of the Annual Report by registering Limited website.
dealing service, details of which can be found on their online.
This arrangement is available at any time www www.
com during market trading hours and provides an easy and www www.
co. uk convenient facility to trade shares, offering real time Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at prices through a range of market makers, and giving 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other you control of when and for how much you wish to telephony providers costs may vary.
Full terms and conditions for this International Power Annual General Meeting Consolidated tax vouchers Corporate responsibility The 2010 AGM will be held on 18 May 2010.
Further A new system was introduced in 2008 for those Further information on corporate responsibility details are outlined in the Notice of the 2010 AGM.
shareholders receiving direct dividend payments.
is available on our website.
Following this, single consolidated tax vouchers are www www www.
com investors  now issued at the end of March each year, in time general-meetings 2010 for the preparation of self-assessment tax returns.
Contact details Share price Website General enquiries Our latest share price information is available The International Power website contains the 2009 Stephen Ramsay, Company Secretary on our website.
Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along International Power plc, Senator House, www www.
com investors share-information with a wide range of other information on the Group.
85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4DP Tel: 020 7320 8706 www www.
com This link will provide you with International Powers @ E-mail: ipr.
com latest share price, historical closing prices and volumes, The website also hosts an alert service where you Corporate investor and media enquiries and an interactive share price graph.
can sign up for e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, Aarti Singhal, Head of Communications In addition, you can now access the latest share results and presentations, and events.
International Power plc, Senator House, price on your Blackberry, PDA or mobile phone.
85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4DP www www.
com site-services email-alert Tel: 020 7320 8600 www http: mobile.
com Disclaimer Financial calendar This document includes certain forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and Date projections of the Group about future events.
However, by their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on Interim Management Statement 11 May 2010 circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual Annual General Meeting 18 May 2010 results may differ from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited 2009 final dividend ex-dividend date 26 May 2010 to, the economic and business circumstances occurring from 2009 final dividend record date 28 May 2010 time to time in the countries in which the Group operates, changes in trends in the general, global or regional 2009 final dividend payment date 24 June 2010 economies, changes in trends in the global energy sector, Interim Report for the six months ending 30 June 2010 10 August 2010 changes in regulation and natural disasters or other calamities.
This document also contains references to Interim Management Statement 11 November 2010 third-party websites, over which we have no control and therefore we cannot give any assurance or warranty as to their content.
People use these websites at their own risk.
For updates to the calendar during the year, please visit our website.
com Registered Office International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4DP Registered in England and Wales No: 2366963 Published by International Power plc Designed and produced by Roundel www.
com It is important that our Summary Annual Report is produced in an environmentally responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
The Summary Annual Report is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral printing company, using vegetable-based inks and water-based sealants on Revive Pure White Silk, which is certified as 100% recycled by the Forest Stewardship Council.
