192 International Power Annual Report 2009 Shareholder services and information Electronic voting Dividend Reinvestment Plan service are available on the Shareview website.
You For the Annual General Meeting AGM you can As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you should note that for sales, the maximum online trade register your vote electronically by logging on to can choose to reinvest your money in the Companys size is 25,000 and for purchases 20,000.
To trade the following website.
You will need your voting shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
over the telephone, please call 0845 603 7037. reference numbers the three numbers shown The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money www www.
co. uk dealing on your Proxy Form.
by way of buying shares in the open market.
If you would like to receive further information and an www www.
co. uk application form for the International Power DRIP, Shareholder enquiries please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
If you have any queries on the following: Alternatively, if you have already registered for a transfer of shares Shareview portfolio with Equiniti, then log on to Individual Savings Accounts change of name or address your portfolio and click on company meetings.
Information on the International Power corporate lost share certificates Individual Savings Account ISA, which offers a lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of www www.
co. uk tax-efficient way of holding shares, can be obtained dividends directly into a bank or building society account from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, who can death of the registered holder of shares This is a service offered by Equiniti that also enables be contacted on 0845 300 0430. receiving duplicate copies of this report you to check your holdings in many UK companies and receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual helps you to organise your investments electronically.
Share dealing services Report in addition to the electronic version of the report Once you have registered for a portfolio, you can also Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write use this service to change your address details online for both the purchase and sale of shares.
This is a to them at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, as well as register your vote for a companys general postal service only.
For information on the low-cost Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, quoting meeting safely, securely and privately.
dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please International Power and including your shareholder contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082. reference number found on your share certificate.
Receive your Annual Report online If you have access to the internet, in future you can Shareview dealing Additional information can be found on the Equiniti receive your copy of the Annual Report by registering Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share Limited website.
dealing service, details of which can be found on their www www.
This arrangement is available at any time www www.
co. uk during market trading hours and provides an easy and convenient facility to trade shares, offering real time Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at prices through a range of market makers, and giving 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other you control of when and for how much you wish to telephony providers costs may vary.
Full terms and conditions for this International Power Annual General Meeting Consolidated tax vouchers Corporate responsibility The 2010 AGM will be held on 18 May 2010.
A new system was introduced in 2008 for those Further information on corporate responsibility Further details are outlined in the Notice of the shareholders receiving direct dividend payments.
is available on our website.
Following this, single consolidated tax vouchers are www www.
com  now issued at the end of March each year, in time www www.
com investors  for the preparation of self-assessment tax returns.
general-meetings 2010 Contact details Website General enquiries Share price The International Power website contains the 2009 Stephen Ramsay, Company Secretary Our latest share price information is available Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along International Power plc, Senator House, on our website.
with a wide range of other information on the Group.
85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4DP www www.
com investors share-information Tel: 020 7320 8706 www www.
com This link will provide you with International Powers The website also hosts an alert service where you Corporate investor and media enquiries latest share price, historical closing prices and volumes, can sign up for e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, Aarti Singhal, Head of Communications and an interactive share price graph.
results and presentations, and events.
International Power plc, Senator House, In addition, you can now access the latest share 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4DP www www.
com site-services email-alert price on your Blackberry, PDA or mobile phone.
com Financial calendar Date Interim Management Statement 11 May 2010 Annual General Meeting 18 May 2010 2009 final dividend ex-dividend date 26 May 2010 2009 final dividend record date 28 May 2010 2009 final dividend payment date 24 June 2010 Interim Report for the six months ending 30 June 2010 10 August 2010 Interim Management Statement 11 November 2010 For updates to the calendar during the year, please visit our website.
