54 International Power Annual Report 2009 Financial position and resources A strong financial position with earnings growth and increased free cash flow.
Corporate costs Tax Corporate costs at 52 million The Group tax charge has decreased are marginally up on last year by 10 million to 113 million 2008: 49 million, principally resulting 2008: 123 million.
The effective rate from increased costs associated with of tax in 2009 is 23%, which is 1% higher our pension schemes in the UK.
Both 2009 and 2008 have benefited from the resolution of some Interest historic tax issues across the Group.
Net interest expense at 439 million is The tax charge for 2009 also reflects 71 million higher than 2008.
This is mainly the benefits arising from the reduction due to the impact of the weakening of of deferred tax provisions relating to sterling on the translation of interest expense.
unremitted earnings of certain foreign operations following the introduction of Foreign exchange the UK Finance Act 2009.
This legislation The impact of the weakening of sterling introduced the new UK dividend on the results of our overseas operations, exemption under which certain qualifying compared to 2008, is an increase in dividends from overseas investments will earnings per share EPS of 1.9 pence.
be tax free when received in the UK after The impact relates primarily to the 1 July 2009. translation of the profits of US dollar, euro, Australian dollar and Czech koruna denominated operations.
Ras Laffan B Qatar Tejo Energia Portugal Hays Texas 55 10% Profit from operations increased to 1,157 million 3% Earnings per share increased to 33.4 pence Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Business overview 56 International Power Annual Report 2009 Financial position and resources Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Exceptional items before tax amount to a profit of 354 million 2008: loss of 57 million.
This comprises the following offsetting gains and losses: Profit on disposal of International Power Opatovice of 427 million Profit on disposal of Hartwell of 22 million Impairment of Levanto wind farms by 70 million Thai National Power Thailand Impairment of investment in Eggborough by 25 million In November 2009, the Group completed the sale of International Power Opatovice, and its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans 49% owned by International Power, to the Czecho-Slovak investment firm J&T Group.
Net consideration from the disposal, after costs, was 593 million and the profit on disposal was 427 million.
There was no tax charge associated with this disposal.
In October 2009, International Power, together with its joint venture partner, completed the sale of Hartwell Energy, a 318MW gas and oil-fired peaking facility located in Georgia, US, to Oglethorpe Power Corporation.
Net proceeds from the 50% stake in Hartwell Energy Milford Massachusetts amounted to 33 million and the profit on disposal was 22 million.
A tax charge of 8 million has also been recognised on this sale.
Based on revised long-term wind forecasts for some of our Levanto wind farms in Germany, the carrying value of these assets has been impaired by 70 million, offset by a corresponding deferred tax credit of 19 million.
Following an assessment of future cash flows based on current forward market spreads, we have written down a fully paid and exercised option to acquire a 10% minority stake in Eggborough power station, by 25 million.
There was no tax charge associated with this impairment.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in profit before tax for the year are net gains of 230 million 2008: gains of 529 million.
311 million 2008: 172 million related to decreases in forward commodity prices in the UK, US and Australia, offset principally by mark to market losses of 109 million 2008: gain of 389 million relating to the convertible bonds.
Tax on total mark to market movements during the year was a charge of 57 million 2008: 159 million.
57 Cash flow A summary of the Groups cash flow and a reconciliation to net debt is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Profit for the year 1,143 930 Uni-Mar Turkey Depreciation and amortisation 378 298 1 Non-cash items and other movements 342 173 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 146 135 Capital expenditure maintenance 148 108 Sale of property, plant and equipment 1 Net sale of intangible assets 47 25 Movement in working capital 101 109 Tax and net interest paid 535 485 Free cash flow 791 513 Australian stamp duty exceptional 6 7 Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt 33 Capital expenditure growth 115 156 Purchase of intangible assets growth 8 Investments in net of returns from joint ventures, associates and investments 18 58 Acquisitions 76 614 Disposals 638 Dividends paid 195 166 Proceeds from share issue 3 10 Net payments to receipts from minority interests 110 28 Other movements in debt 36 119 Decrease increase in net debt 876 372 Opening net debt 6,318 4,662 Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 49 2 Net debt on disposal of subsidiaries 121 Effect of foreign exchange thereon 311 1,282 Closing net debt 5,059 6,318 Notes: 1 Non-cash items and other movements are set out in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
They include income statement charges for interest, tax, specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
The comparatives have been restated to reflect the change of accounting policies relating to the embedded derivative pertaining to the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 and retirement benefit obligations refer to note 1d of the consolidated financial statements.
Free cash flow for the year at 791 million was very strong, increasing by 278 million compared to 2008.
The increase is primarily due to the increase in profitability and a 210 million year-on-year favourable movement in working capital.
Working capital has improved due to a reduction in coal stocks at Rugeley, which were built up as a result of flue gas desulphurisation FGD construction delays in 2008, a catch up on the sale of green certificates in Maestrale in 2009, and a reduction in debtors at the end of 2009 in both the US and UK.
Interest and tax payments were 50 million higher principally as a result of the impact of the weakening of sterling on the retranslation of the overseas interest and tax payments.
Maintenance capex was 40 million higher in 2009, with a major planned outage at Deeside being the biggest contributor to this increase.
Growth capex is 41 million lower in 2009, principally as a result of a reduced spend on FGD at Rugeley in 2009.
Acquisitions comprise net consideration paid for the AIM PowerGen portfolio, and a final payment relating to the acquisition of our share in the T-Power project in Belgium in 2008.
Disposal proceeds relate to the sale of International Power Opatovice and its interests in its joint ventures, and to the sale of Hartwell in the US.
Business overview 58 International Power Annual Report 2009 Financial position and resources Summary statement of financial position The Groups net assets are analysed as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Goodwill and intangibles 1,053 1,137 Tejo Energia Portugal Property, plant and equipment 7,041 7,318 Investments 1,697 1,803 Long-term receivables and others 1,638 1,945 Non-current assets 11,429 12,203 Net current liabilities excluding net debt items 119 137 Non-current liabilities excluding net debt items 1,440 1,707 Net debt 5,059 6,318 Net assets 4,811 4,041 Gearing 105% 156% Debt capitalisation 51% 61% Net debt joint ventures and associates 1,684 1,820 Non-current assets have reduced by 774 million, mainly due to the disposal of International Power Opatovice, including its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans, and the strengthening of sterling against the euro and US dollar during 2009, partially offset by the acquisition of AIM PowerGen.
Long-term receivables are lower than in 2008 following the impairment of the finance lease receivable relating to the Levanto wind farms.
In addition, property, plant and equipment has reduced by a further 74 million, being the excess of depreciation over capital expenditure in the year.
The strengthening of sterling against the euro and US dollar at the end of the reporting period for 2009 when compared to 2008, partially offset by a weakening of sterling against the Australian dollar, has also reduced net debt by 311 million.
Debt capitalisation has reduced from 61% to 51% following the disposal of International Power Opatovice and Hartwell, and the strong profitability and cash generation of the Group during 2009.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow generation.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held cash at the corporate level of 549 million 2008: 354 million, and 644 million 2008: 775 million at the project company level.
Debt comprises project level debt of 5,407 million 2008: 6,547 million and corporate debt comprising three convertible bonds with a book value of 845 million 2008: 900 million.
In July, International Power signed a US$780 million forward start revolving credit facility with its relationship banks, which will run until October 2012.
The new facility is available for general corporate purposes and replaces the existing US$850 million facility that was due to expire in October 2010.
Net debt and capital structure Group net debt As at As at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,193 1,129 Convertible bonds 845 900 Other bonds 711 755 Bank loans and other loans 4,696 5,792 Net debt 5,059 6,318 The above net debt of 5,059 million excludes the Groups share of joint ventures and associates net debt of 1,684 million 2008: 1,820 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power or any other Group company.
59 The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and adequately support its existing operations and to finance the purchase of new assets.
These facilities comprise an US$780 million revolving credit facility expiring in October 2012 and three convertible bonds.
The first convertible bond of US$228 million matures in August 2023 but with bond holders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013 and 2018.
The second convertible bond of E230 million matures in July 2013.
The third convertible bond of E700 million has a maturity date of June 2015.
The bondholders have the right to convert all bonds into our shares at any time and, during 2008, US$24 million Milford Massachusetts of the 2023 convertible bond was redeemed.
In addition, the Group has committed and uncommitted bilateral credit lines from various banks at its disposal at the corporate level.
Further information on liquidity is included in the consolidated financial statements.
Page Consolidated financial statements pages 169 to 171 Secured non-recourse finance The Groups financial strategy is to finance its assets by means of limited or non-recourse project financings at the project company or intermediate holding company level, wherever that is practical.
As part of this strategy, SEA Gas refinanced its existing loan and replaced Paiton Indonesia it with new loans totalling A$425 million with a maximum maturity of October 2012.
In addition, the Group inherited non-recourse facilities of C$154 million in relation to the acquisition of Aim PowerGen and used part of the disposal proceeds from the Czech business to repay in full the non-recourse debt associated with the US CCGT fleet of US$769 million during December 2009.
In January 2010, Hazelwood refinanced two existing loans into a single new loan totalling A$742 million with a new maturity of June 2012.
Corporate and Group debt On 31 December 2009 we had aggregated debt financing of 6,252 million denominated principally in US dollars, Australian dollars, sterling, euro, Canadian dollars and Thai baht.
Of this amount only 845 million has recourse at corporate level and 5,248 million is secured by fixed or floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Aggregated debt financing with carrying amounts of 607 million are due for repayment in 2010, 317 million in 2011 and 1,215 million in 2012, with the majority of the remaining debt balance due after 2014.
Following the restructuring of the Hazelwood Power Partnership non-recourse debt in 2010, this reduced the debt financing repayments due in 2010 by 260 million and increased debt financing repayments due in 2012 by a similar amount.
During 2009 Standard & Poors, Fitch, and Moodys reviewed the credit rating at corporate level.
Standard & Poors upgraded the rating to BB, from BBwith stable outlook.
Fitch and Moodys maintained their ratings of BB with stable outlook and Ba3 with stable outlook respectively.
Short-term deposits Surplus funds are placed for short periods in investments that carry low credit risk and are readily realisable in major currencies.
Interest rate policy The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for a significant portion of the debt 73% as at 31 December 2009 using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements.
Turbogs interest cost is a pass through in the power purchase agreement PPA tariff and is therefore not an exposure to the Group.
Adjusting for this item would increase fixed rate debt to 77%.
The Group has limited exposure to changes in interest rates as variable rate debt is similar in size to variable rate cash and cash equivalents.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require specific approval of the Board.
The weighted average interest rate of aggregated debt financing was 6% in 2009.
Where project finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the customer offtake agreement.
Business overview 60 International Power Annual Report 2009 Financial position and resources forecast transaction occurs or is no longer Critical accounting policies and estimates expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses, after the date of dedesignation as cash We prepare our consolidated financial statements in compliance with International flow hedges, are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The Group continues to Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Adopted apply cash flow hedge accounting for interest rate swaps and other financial items.
As such, we are required to make certain estimates, judgements and financial items to continue to achieve cash flow Hays Texas hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group assumptions that we believe are reasonable based upon the information available.
to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and whether the hedge is effective.
at the date of the financial statements, the When our power plants sell their output reported amounts of income and expenses under long-term PPAs it is usual for the during the periods presented and the related power plant owning company to receive disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
payment known as a capacity payment On an on-going basis, we evaluate our for the provision of electrical capacity Shuweihat S1 UAE whether or not the offtaker requests estimates using previous experience, consultation with experts and other methods electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electrical considered reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure full compliance output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual with Adopted IFRSs and best practice.
Actual results may differ significantly from our arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give contract.
Where the arrangements are determined to be or to contain a form rise to the revision become known.
of lease, an evaluation is then required Our Group accounting policies are detailed of where the substantial risks and rewards in note 1 to the consolidated financial of ownership reside, in order to determine statements.
the form of lease it represents.
For those Page Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements arrangements determined to be finance pages 116 to 123 leases, it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which The table on page 63 identifies some of should be treated as finance income, capital the areas where significant judgements are repayment and as a fee for service provision.
required, normally due to the uncertainties For operating leases it is necessary to involved in the application of particular calculate the split between minimum lease accounting policies.
payments and fees for service provision.
Revenue recognition Where PPAs extend over more than one accounting period, service income is Our income is derived principally from owning and operating power plants recognised in each accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance worldwide.
In merchant markets, the Group enters into various types of hedging under the contract in each period.
This treatment requires an assessment of fair or forward contracts for the buying and value which can be subjective.
selling of commodities related to this activity: principally the sale of electricity and the The Group receives payments from purchase of fuel for our own power plants.
contractors in respect of late commissioning These contracts typically fall within the and under performance of new power plants.
definition of derivative financial instruments Receipts which relate to compensation for and are therefore required to be fair valued.
lost revenue are treated as income when Accounting for these contracts as cash flow the compensation is due and payable by hedges allows, to the extent the hedge is the contractor.
Those receipts that relate effective, the changes in value of the to compensation for plants not achieving derivatives to be deferred in a hedging long-term performance levels specified reserve within equity.
in the original contracts are recorded On 1 January 2008, the Group revoked the as a reduction in the cost of the assets.
designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchases of fuel Fair values of energy derivatives The Group has prepared its financial i. e. non-financial items.
For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative gain or loss statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain Financial Instruments: Presentation, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 separately recognised in equity until the 61 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the The Group regularly considers whether there objective of obtaining benefits, is a mix of accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial has been any change to the estimated useful contractually defined and subjective factors Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
lives of our long-life assets.
that can be critical to the appropriate In accordance with IAS 39, the Group accounting treatment.
The assessment We also consider whether there are any recognises its derivative contracts in the process is cognisant of the requirement indications of impairment to carrying values of financial statements at fair value unless they to account for transactions and events the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill, qualify for own use treatment.
Changes in accordance with their substance and intangible assets and property, plant and in the value of derivative contracts in each economic reality, and not merely their equipment.
These indicators include both the period are recorded in earnings unless strict legal form.
impact of new environmental legislation and hedge accounting criteria are met which the impact of any adverse market conditions.
In accordance with the requirements of allow the movement in fair value to be Adopted IFRSs, a special purpose entity SPE recorded within other comprehensive income Impairment reviews require a comparison of is consolidated when the substance of the and accumulated within a hedging reserve, the current carrying amount of the asset with relationship between an entity and the SPE which is a component of equity.
the present value of the expected future cash indicates that the SPE is controlled by that flows of the respective cash-generating unit The Group estimates the fair value of its entity.
In the context of an SPE, control may and its fair value less costs to sell.
The energy derivative contracts by reference to exist even in cases where an entity owns little calculations are generally based on riskforward price curves.
A forward price curve or none of the SPEs equity.
The application adjusted discounted cash flow projections represents the Groups view as to the prices at of the control concept requires, in each case, that require estimates of discount rates and which customers would currently contract for judgement in the context of all relevant future market prices over the remaining lives delivery or settlement of commodities, such factors.
Modelling assumptions, as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally, including the price of power and the output The determination of the level of influence the forward price curve is derived from of the plants, take into account all existing the Group has over a business is often a mix observable prices in an active market over environmental legislation and managements of contractually defined and subjective factors the near-term, and from valuation techniques best estimates of the impacts of substantively that can be critical to the appropriate beyond the near-term.
Assumptions which enacted and potential new legislation.
accounting treatment of entities in the underpin the price curve beyond the period consolidated financial statements.
At entities where there are observable market prices As noted earlier in this Annual Report, which are not subsidiaries, we achieve relate to the prices of commodities such as environmental legislation is one of the key influence through Board representation and oil, the cost of constructing and financing the drivers of the long-term development of by obtaining rights of veto over significant building of new power plants, and the prices the electricity industry.
We generally treat investments at which it would be economic for companies greenhouse gas emissions are expected to where the Group holds less than 20% of to enter the market and build additional impose increasing constraints on our ability the equity as investments available-for-sale.
Assumptions to use fossil fuels to generate power.
As These investments are carried at market are also made in relation to the impacts of examples, changes to legislation that may affect value where quoted market prices in an environmental legislation.
some of our plants in the US and in Australia active market are available.
Where they are include the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative Short-term assumptions are typically based not available, and where fair value cannot RGGI programme and the proposed on existing or substantively enacted be reliably measured, equity instruments Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme CPRS legislation, whilst the long-term assumptions are measured at cost.
The impact of legislative are typically based on the Groups view as to development on our assets will remain Where the Group owns between 20% market developments.
The assumptions used uncertain whilst the national and international and 50% of the equity of an entity, and is during the application of valuation techniques response to climate change continues to evolve.
in a position to exercise significant influence will directly impact the shape of the forward over the entitys operating and financial Page Environmental regulation pages 27 and 28 price curve.
The forward price curves are policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
underpinned by many assumptions, and are Fair values on acquisition Equally, where the Group holds a substantial only estimates of future prices.
Therefore they The Group is required to bring assets and interest but less than 20% in an entity and possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
liabilities, acquired in business combinations, has the power to exert significant influence into the Groups financial statements at the over its operations, we also treat that entity Recoverable amount of long-life assets date of acquisition at their fair value.
Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write plant and equipment usually have long useful down the value of the asset to its residual A joint venture is a contractual arrangement lives, and are often bought with associated value over its estimated useful life: whereby two or more parties undertake an long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Hence economic activity that is subject to joint Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT plant is determination of the fair values of these control.
Where we recognise our interest depreciated over 30 years to a 10% residual long-life assets and contracts can require in a joint venture as a jointly-controlled entity, value, unless the circumstances of the project a significant amount of judgement.
we apply the equity method of accounting.
or life of specific components indicate a Sometimes we may apply the equity method shorter period or a lower residual value.
Consolidation policy amount to a joint venture where we do not possess of control or influence Other plant, including wind farms, coal and an equal shareholding to the other venturers, In order to consolidate a subsidiary the parent hydro plants are considered on an individual because the venturers are bound by a must control it.
Control is the power to basis.
contractual arrangement and the contractual govern the financial and operating policies arrangement establishes joint control.
Our asset lives are set out in note 1l to the of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its consolidated financial statements.
Determining whether control exists, and whether this is accompanied by the Page Note 1l to the consolidated financial statements page 120 Business overview 62 International Power Annual Report 2009 Financial position and resources Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 Taxation mark to market movements The tax expense recorded in the consolidated As discussed on pages 32, 117 and 118, in income statement is dependent on the profit order to allow a full understanding of the for the year and the tax rates at the reporting financial information presented within the date, either in place or which have been consolidated financial statements, and substantively enacted.
The level of current specifically the Groups underlying business and deferred tax recognised is also dependent performance, the Group presents its on subjective judgements as to the outcome Calumet Illinois consolidated income statement such of decisions to be made by the tax authorities that it separately identifies the effect of in the various tax jurisdictions in which exceptional items and specific IAS 39 International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred The Directors consider that items of income tax assets should be recognised based on or expense, which are material by virtue of an assessment of the extent to which they their nature and amount, should be disclosed are regarded as recoverable.
separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and Recoverability of trade and other Paiton Indonesia financial performance of the Group.
The receivables Directors label these items collectively as The Group assesses the recoverability of its exceptional items.
trade and other receivables on a periodic basis.
Payment delays by offtakers at longDetermining which transactions are to be term PPA businesses have occurred at the considered exceptional in nature is often a Groups joint ventures and associates during subjective matter.
The Group has not made a provision that the Directors believe would give rise against overdue amounts at 31 December to exceptional items for separate disclosure 2009 as it considers that all amounts will be would include: fully recovered from the offtakers.
d isposals of interests in businesses Provisions d iscontinued operations Within the Group there are a number of i mpairments and impairment reversals long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated, based on All exceptional items are included on the assumptions about items such as the risk appropriate income statement line to which adjustment to cash flows or discount rates they relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate used, future changes in prices and estimates disclosure is made of all such items in one of costs.
For example, the pensions liability column on the face of the consolidated is based on assumptions relating to discount income statement.
rates, future changes in salaries, expected Those items that the Group separately mortality and future increases in pension presents as specific IAS 39 mark to market payments.
We regularly review the movements in the consolidated income assumptions underlying provision calculations, statement principally relate to derivative and pensions assumptions are reviewed on an contracts into which the Group has entered annual basis.
However, a change in estimates in order to economically hedge certain of could have a material impact on the carrying its physical and financial exposures.
During 2009 we changed our accounting policy for defined benefit schemes.
Page Note 1d to the consolidated financial statements pages 116 and 117 63 Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of the following: Revenue recognition correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in place and the allocation of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant the allocation of capacity payments to service income and minimum lease payments the fair value of performance under the contract appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors Fair values of energy derivatives forward price curve for commodities where there is no observable market Recoverable amount of property, indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using projected cash flows, together plant and equipment with risk adjusted discount rates, or other more appropriate methods of valuation Fair values on acquisition useful economic life and residual value of certain assets fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business Consolidation policy, extent of control or influence the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which it holds an equity stake Items of income and expense which require separate items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount which require disclosure exceptional items separate disclosure.
The Directors consider these items most appropriately disclosed as exceptional Taxation appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions of the tax authorities assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings Recoverability of trade and other receivables assessment of intention and ability of customers to pay amounts billed Provisions appropriate assumptions to calculate reliable estimates of the amount to be provided Business overview
