116 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures No impact is expected from any other standards that amendments expand the disclosures required in are available for early adoption but that have not been a General information respect of fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
International Power plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires segment The following standards and interpretations have United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office disclosures based on the components that the Chief been issued by the IASB, but have not been adopted is disclosed on page 192 of this Annual Report.
Operating Decision Maker i. e. the Board monitors by the European Commission and published in the The consolidated financial statements of the Company in making decisions about operating matters.
EU Official Journal for their application to become for the year ended 31 December 2009 comprise Such components are identified on the basis of mandatory: the Company and its subsidiaries together referred internal reports that the Board reviews regularly IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint in allocating resources to segments and in assessing accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January ventures and associates.
As the Board reviews business 2013.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine financial statements present information about performance excluding the impacts of exceptional whether a financial asset is measured at amortised the Company as a separate entity and not about items and specific IAS 39 mark to market cost or fair value.
This approach is based on how an its Group.
The principal activities of the Group movements, and the Group is structured and entity manages its financial instruments its business are described in note 2. managed on a regional geographical basis, the model and the contractual cash flow characteristics segment results, assets and liabilities are also of the financial assets.
The new standard also b Statement of compliance presented this way.
This results in a segmental requires a single impairment method to be used, European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC analysis which is similar to that presented previously replacing the many different impairment methods 1606 2002 requires that the consolidated financial under IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
However, the in IAS 39. statements, for the year ended 31 December 2009, comparatives have been restated for the effects be prepared in accordance with International Financial of the different disclosure requirements of current d Changes in accounting policies Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and deferred tax assets and liabilities.
In the preparation of these consolidated financial Adopted IFRSs.
These Group financial statements The following Adopted IFRSs were available for early statements, the Group has adjusted for the effects have been prepared and approved by the Directors adoption but have not been applied by the Group in of the following changes in accounting policies: in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
these financial statements: Convertible bonds The Company has elected to prepare its parent IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is The Group has changed its accounting policy in company financial statements in accordance with effective for annual accounting periods of the Group relation to the recognition of equity or financial UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
This interpretation liabilities arising from the issue of convertible bonds The parent company financial statements are sets out general principles on recognising and see note 1x.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: presented on pages 179 to 187. measuring the obligations and related rights in Presentation states that a derivative contract that will service concession arrangements.
As the Groups be settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed c Adoption of new and revised Standards long-term power purchase agreements which are number of its own equity instruments in exchange The following standards, amendments and affected by the adoption of IFRIC 12 are already for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset interpretations to existing standards, issued by determined to be or to contain finance leases, and is an equity instrument.
It also states that a contract the International Accounting Standards Board, are the consideration receivable by the operator in that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving applicable to the Group for the first time in the current each case gives rise to financial assets, the impact a fixed number of its own equity instruments in year and have been adopted by the Group with no of adopting IFRIC 12 is not expected to have a exchange for a variable amount of cash or another impact on the Groups accounting policies or on its material impact on the Group.
financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability.
results or net assets included within these consolidated financial statements: an amended IFRS 3 Business Combinations, Previously, for the purposes of the consolidated an amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate financial statements, when making the assessment IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Financial Statements, and an amended IAS 28 of whether a convertible bond, when exercised, gives amendments require a number of changes to the Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in rise to the exchange of a fixed or variable amount of presentation of financial statements.
These include Joint Ventures, effective for business combinations cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency a requirement to present, in a statement of changes in annual accounting periods of the Group of the issuing company relative to the currency in equity, all owner changes in equity.
All non-owner beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The revised denomination of the bond was considered in addition changes in equity i. e. comprehensive income IFRS 3 will make many changes to how future to the other features within the bond.
It is now the are required to be presented in one statement business combinations will be accounted for, Groups policy to consider the functional currency of comprehensive income or in two statements including accounting for acquisition costs, of the parent that issues the Ordinary Shares relative a separate income statement and a statement of contingent consideration, step acquisitions, partial to the currency denomination of the bond in making comprehensive income.
As a result, the Group has disposals of an investment in a subsidiary and partial that assessment.
elected to present a consolidated income statement, disposals of associates and joint ventures.
As the a consolidated statement of comprehensive income revised standard is to be applied prospectively and a consolidated statement of changes in equity.
it is not possible to quantify its likely impact.
In addition, the revised Standard has required the presentation of a third statement of financial position at 1 January 2008, because the Group has applied two new accounting policies retrospectively see section d which follows.
117 This change has been made because it provides This change has been made because it provides The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into reliable and more relevant information arising from reliable and more relevant information about the account reasonably possible changes in trading the consistent treatment of all three of the Groups effects of transactions.
It has been made to ensure performance, show that the Group has sufficient existing convertible bonds, issued in currencies other the consolidated financial statements provide financial financial resources, together with assets that are than sterling the functional currency of International information which is prepared on a basis which is expected to generate free cash flow to the Group Power plc which will issue the Ordinary Shares under consistent with the policy used by a majority of due to the relatively inelastic demand for the Groups the terms of the bonds.
In accordance with the preparers of financial statements under Adopted primary product, electricity.
As a consequence, the requirements of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes IFRSs.
In accordance with the requirements of Directors have a reasonable expectation that the in Accounting Estimates and Errors the change has IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Company and the Group are well placed to manage been made retrospectively and the comparatives Estimates and Errors the change has been made their business risks and to continue in operational have been restated accordingly.
retrospectively and the comparatives have been existence for the foreseeable future, despite the restated accordingly.
continuing uncertain global economic outlook.
As a result, the comparative period for the year ended Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the 31 December 2008 has been restated to reduce As a result, the comparative period for the year ended going concern basis in preparing the consolidated finance expenses, arising from exceptional items 31 December 2008 has been restated to remove financial statements.
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, by the pension credit relating to the amortisation of 239 million and to increase the charge for taxation actuarial gains and losses which were outside the f Basis of preparation by 67 million.
At 31 December 2008 non-current corridor, and recorded in cost of sales, of 1 million, As set out in note 1e, the consolidated financial derivative financial liabilities increased by 69 million to increase the retirement benefit obligation as at statements have been prepared on the going and deferred tax liabilities decreased by 19 million.
31 December 2008 by 62 million and to decrease concern basis.
They use the historical cost convention, At 1 January 2008 non-current derivative financial net deferred tax liabilities by 18 million at the same modified for certain items carried at fair value or liabilities increased by 308 million and deferred date.
At 1 January 2008 the retirement benefit measured in accordance with the applicable Adopted tax liabilities decreased by 86 million refer also obligation decreased by 17 million and the deferred IFRS, as stated in these accounting policies.
to notes 8 and 10. tax liabilities increased by 5 million refer also to In order to allow a better understanding of the notes 7 and 10.
Retirement benefit obligations financial information presented, and specifically the For the year ended 31 December 2008 and prior e Going concern basis Groups underlying business performance, the Group periods, the Groups policy in relation to defined The Groups business activities, together with presents its income statement in three columns such benefit pension plans was to apply the corridor the factors likely to affect its future development, that it identifies i results excluding exceptional items method in the recognition of actuarial gains and performance and position are set out on pages 10 and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Gains to 35 of the Business and financial review of the ii the effect of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 and losses in an individual scheme were recognised Annual Report.
The financial position of the Group, mark to market movements and iii results for the to the extent they exceeded the greater of 10% of its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities year.
For the purposes of clarity, in the explanation of the gross assets or gross liabilities of the scheme.
are also described in the Business and financial review the basis of preparation applied in the consolidated The amount recognised in the following year was on pages 54 to 63 of the Annual Report.
In addition, financial statements, these columns are described as the excess amortised over the remaining average the Groups Annual Report and consolidated financial the left hand column, the middle column and the service lives of the employees in the scheme and statements include the Groups objectives, policies right hand column respectively.
was recognised in the income statement.
The net and processes for financial risk management.
Those items that the Group separately presents as defined benefit obligation recognised in the statement As described on pages 58 to 59 of the Annual exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the of financial position represented the present value Report, the Group meets its funding requirements Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of the defined benefit obligations adjusted for through a combination of non-recourse project of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and finance debt secured on project companies assets understanding of the financial information.
The Group unrecognised service costs and as reduced together with convertible debt and a corporate discloses exceptional items in the middle column.
by the fair value of the plan assets.
revolver facility at International Power plc the The Group enters into derivative contracts to It is now the Groups policy to recognise an amount Company.
Following the refinancing of the corporate economically hedge certain of its physical and financial in the statement of financial position in respect of revolver facility in July 2009, the repayment of the exposures.
In relation to commodities trading, the defined benefit pension plans which is the present US$769 million debt at its US combined cycle gas Group considers economic hedges to be those which value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of turbine CCGT fleet in December 2009, and the are asset backed, i. e. where the Group is either the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets, restructuring of the A$742 million debt at its forward selling electricity from its own generation together with adjustments for unrecognised past Hazelwood facility in January 2010, the Group does capacity or forward buying fuel for its own generation service costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised not have any material refinancings falling due in 2010 capacity.
In respect of interest rate swaps and other in the statement of comprehensive income in the and 2011. treasury-related derivatives, the Group considers period in which they arise.
Past service costs are economic hedges to be those which hedge existing recognised immediately in income to the extent that assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
benefits have vested, otherwise costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period see note 1ad.
Financial statements 118 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Mark to market movements of the fair value of The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed embedded derivatives in convertible bonds, which of during the year are included in the consolidated Some of these economic hedges achieve own use relate to conversion features where the functional income statement from when control commences treatment under IAS 39 and are accounted for on an currency of the parent company and other factors or up to when control ceases, as appropriate.
Some are accounted for as cash flow preclude the conversion feature being treated as hedges under IAS 39 with fair value gains and losses Where necessary, adjustments are made to the equity in the consolidated financial statements, are recorded in other comprehensive income and financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the treated as specific IAS 39 mark to market movements accumulated in the hedging reserve.
Where derivative accounting policies used into line with those used and as such are presented in the middle column.
The contracts do not achieve own use treatment and the by the Group.
Directors consider the fair value gains and losses of Group could not, or has not sought to, apply cash these embedded derivatives should be appropriately All intra-group transactions, balances, income flow hedge accounting, IAS 39 requires the derivative disclosed within specific IAS 39 mark to market and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
contract to be measured at fair value marked to movements, in the middle column, so as to separately market with fair value gains and losses recognised in identify a non-cash movement which, if the conversion h Revenue recognition the income statement.
The Group separately presents option is exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods these mark to market movements on economic the issue of equity.
or services provided in the normal course of business hedges, in the middle column, to assist the readers excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties understanding of underlying business performance Mark to market movements relating to proprietary such as sales taxes, goods and services taxes and and to provide a more meaningful presentation.
trading activities, the revaluation of assets held for value added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is trading and amortisation of derivatives which are For economic hedges, where fair value gains and probable that future economic benefits will flow to acquired with a fair value other than zero comprise losses are recorded in the income statement, in the the entity and these benefits can be measured reliably.
part of the Groups underlying business performance period in which the economically hedged transaction and are appropriately, in the judgement of the Certain power plants sell their output in merchant settles, the settlement amount of the derivative, being Directors, included within the left hand column.
markets, where electricity is sold through existing the cumulative fair value gains and losses recognised power exchanges, pool arrangements or through in the current and prior periods, is presented in the left The right hand column presents the results for the bilateral contracts with third parties.
In these markets, hand column so that the transaction is measured at its year, showing all gains and losses recorded in the revenue from energy sales is either recorded at the contracted price i. e. the spot price less the fair value consolidated income statement.
spot price obtained through pool or spot mechanisms gain or loss on the derivative contract at that date.
To the extent that exceptional items are separately when the electrical output is delivered, or as set out As the cumulative mark to market movements have identified in the income statement, they are also below, when electricity is delivered in accordance with already been recognised in the middle column in the separately identified in the statement of cash flows the terms of any related hedging or forward contracts.
current and prior periods, an equal but opposite under the respective heading to which they relate.
i Because power is a non-financial item, forward amount is presented in the middle column so that g Basis of consolidation contracts entered into and which continue to be cumulatively the amount recognised in the middle The consolidated financial statements incorporate held for the purpose of delivery and sale of power column in respect of such economic hedges is zero.
the financial statements of the Company and entities generated by our own power plants known as By presenting fair value gains and losses in this controlled by the Company its subsidiaries up to own use contracts can be accounted for under manner, the left hand column is not affected by mark 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where accruals accounting, i. e. revenue for energy sales to market movements and therefore reflects the the Company has the power to govern the financial is recognised as output is delivered in accordance underlying business performance at contracted prices.
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to with the forward contract: obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, The amortisation of derivatives, which are acquired ii All other forward contracts, which are considered the potential voting rights that are currently with a fair value other than zero, is always recorded to be derivatives and do not qualify for own use, exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
This is achieved by presenting are recognised at fair value with changes in fair an equal but opposite amount in the middle column, On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent value recorded in the income statement.
Where such that specific IAS 39 mark to market movements liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair the Group applies cash flow hedge accounting, presented in the middle column are shown net of the values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the changes in fair values are recognised in other amortisation during the period.
cost of acquisition over the fair values of the comprehensive income and accumulated in a identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as hedging reserve within equity and only reclassified Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges under goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition to earnings when the hedged transaction affects IAS 39 can arise from business combinations, where below the fair values of the identifiable net assets earnings.
In addition, to the extent that there is the fair value of the derivatives at acquisition is not acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to ineffectiveness in the cash flow hedge accounting equal to zero, or as a result of the difference between the income statement in the period of acquisition.
of forward contracts, changes in fair values of the the contractual profile of the economic hedge and the forward contracts are taken to the income profile of transactions defined as the hedged item.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at statement in the period.
IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the hedges to be recorded in the income statement, and assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Revenue is recognised on the basis of power delivered therefore the Group records this ineffectiveness in the Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority during the period.
Power purchases entered into to middle column when it relates to an economic hedge.
interest in excess of the minority interest in the offset asset backed power sales are presented net subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests within revenue.
of the parent, except when there is a binding obligation to fund those losses and the minority is in a position to do so.
119 Other power plants sell their output under power i Foreign currencies j Goodwill purchase agreements PPAs and other long-term The Group financial statements are presented in Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the arrangements.
Under such arrangements it is usual sterling, which is also the functional currency of the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups for the Group to receive payment for the provision Company.
The functional currencies of Group entities interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker are principally determined by the primary economic liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, requests the electrical output capacity payments and environment in which the respective entity operates.
joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition.
for the variable costs of production energy payments.
Transactions entered into by Group entities are Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures In such situations, revenue is recognised in respect of translated into the functional currencies of those and associates is included in the carrying amount capacity payments as: entities at the exchange rate ruling at the date of of the investment.
Foreign exchange gains and losses i fi finance income in accordance with note 1t resulting from the settlement of such transactions Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for where the PPA is considered to be or to contain and from the translation at the exchange rate ruling impairment annually and when there are indications a finance lease: at the end of reporting period of monetary assets of impairment.
Any impairment is recognised ii operating lease minimum lease payments, on and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies immediately in the income statement and is not a straight-line basis in accordance with note 1t are recognised in the income statement.
where the PPA is considered to be or to contain Foreign currency non-monetary items measured On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, an operating lease: or in terms of historical cost are translated at the rate the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Exchange determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
iii service income in accordance with the contractual differences on non-monetary items are recognised terms, to the extent that the capacity has been in line with whether the gain or loss on the nonk Other intangible assets made available to the contracted offtaker during monetary item itself is recognised in the income Emission certificates An intangible asset is recognised the period.
Where the PPAs extend over more statement or in equity.
on receipt of allocated emission certificates and than one accounting period, service income is recorded at the fair value on allocation.
The fair recognised in each accounting period at the fair In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign value of the grant is also recognised on receipt and value of the Groups performance under the exchange risks, the Group enters into forward deducted from the value of the intangible asset.
As a contract in each period.
contracts and options refer to note 1s for details result no net asset or liability is shown in the statement Under lease arrangements, those payments which of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such of financial position at initial recognition.
are not included within minimum lease payments derivative financial instruments.
are accounted for as service income outlined in iii Emission certificates are recognised at cost when For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial above.
Energy payments under PPAs are recognised purchased.
As emission certificates are utilised they statements, income and expense items are translated in revenue in all cases as the contracted output is are charged to the income statement within cost at the average exchange rates for the period.
To the extent that these certificates were assets of the Groups overseas subsidiaries, joint received by way of grant there is nil charge to the ventures and associates are translated at exchange Proprietary trading income is recognised on the basis income statement for their utilisation.
At the end rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
of completed contracts and the mark to market value of the reporting period the net carrying amount Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the of outstanding contracts at the period end.
of emission certificates held is compared with the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets Liquidated damages LDs, in respect of late fair value to assess for impairment.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated commissioning, are included in other operating at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising Forward contracts for sales and purchases of emission income.
are recognised in other comprehensive income and certificates are measured at fair value.
accumulated in the Groups translation reserve, which Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by A provision is made for the estimated shortfall is a component of equity.
Such translation differences reference to the principal outstanding and at the between emission certificates held and the anticipated are recognised as income or as expenses in the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate requirement and is charged to the income statement income statement in the period of disposal of that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts on a pro-rata basis according to current and expected the net investment in foreign operations.
through the expected life of the financial asset to that future emissions throughout the accounting period assets net carrying amount on initial recognition.
In respect of foreign operations, any differences based on the market value of those certificates.
that have arisen before 1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, are presented as part of retained earnings.
Financial statements 120 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued The depreciation charge is based on the following The results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled estimates of useful lives: entities joint ventures and associates are Contracts and rights Contracts and rights is the incorporated in these financial statements using the Years term we use to describe intangible assets, acquired equity method of accounting except when classified in business combinations separately from goodwill, Civil works 25-80 as held for sale.
The results are presented after arising from identifiable contractual or other legal Power stations and wind farms 20-60 interest, tax and minority interests.
Investments rights where their fair values can be measured reliably.
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10 in joint ventures and associates are carried in the These include beneficial in the money commodity Computer equipment and software 3-5 statement of financial position at cost as adjusted by contracts, which qualify as own use contracts in Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
These hot gas path parts, on average 2-4 net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any contracts and rights are classified as intangible assets Leasehold improvements Life of lease impairment in the value of individual investments.
and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and Losses of the joint ventures and associates in excess impairment losses refer to accounting policy note Freehold land is not depreciated.
of the Groups interest in those joint ventures and 1q where cost represents fair value at the acquisition associates are not recognised unless the Group has date.
The intangible asset is then amortised on a m Government grants a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
systematic basis in accordance with the pattern in Contributions received towards the cost of property, which the future economic benefit of the contract Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups plant and equipment are recognised at fair value.
is expected to be consumed by the entity.
Intangible share of the fair values of the identifiable assets, The grant is deducted from the cost of the related assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised.
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture property, plant and equipment to derive the carrying An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is or associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as amount of the asset.
The grant is recognised as tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable goodwill within the carrying amount.
Any deficiency income over the life of a depreciable asset by way amount with its carrying amount annually, and of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of a reduced depreciation charge.
whenever there is an indication that the intangible of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the asset may be impaired.
joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition n Project development costs i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income Project development costs are principally incurred in l Property, plant and equipment statement in the period of acquisition.
identifying and developing investment opportunities Property, plant and equipment are stated at original and typically include feasibility studies, pre-bid costs, Where a Group company transacts with a joint cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision legal, professional and other related advisory costs.
venture or associate of the Group, profits and losses for impairment in value.
In the case of assets These costs including appropriate direct internal are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest constructed by the Group, related works, costs are recognised as expenses as incurred, except in the relevant joint venture or associate.
Losses may commissioning and borrowing costs as defined that directly attributable costs are capitalised when provide evidence of an impairment of the asset under IAS 23 Borrowing Costs refer to note 1y it is virtually certain that the project will proceed transferred in which case appropriate provision are included in cost.
Assets in the course of to completion and income will be realised.
Such is made for impairment.
construction are included in property, plant and capitalised costs are amortised over the life of the equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred related property, plant and equipment or contract.
p Other investments at the end of the reporting period.
Costs relating Other investments consist of available-for-sale to major inspections and overhauls are recognised o Investments in joint ventures and associates investments in debt and equity instruments which in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant A joint venture is an entity over whose activities the are measured at market prices where available.
and equipment as a replacement if it is probable that Group has joint control, established by contractual Where quoted market prices in an active market future economic benefits associated with the item agreement.
are not available, and where fair value cannot be will flow to the entity: and the cost of the item can reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments An associate is an entity over which the Group is in be measured reliably.
are measured at cost less impairment.
a position to exercise significant influence, but not Depreciation is calculated on a component part basis control or joint control, through participation in the so as to write-down the cost of property, plant and q Impairment of assets excluding goodwill financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
equipment to its residual value systematically over At the end of each reporting period, the Group Significant influence is the power to participate in the its estimated useful life.
Estimated useful lives, reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant financial and operating policy decisions of the investee residual values and depreciation methods are and equipment, other intangible assets and those but is not control or joint control over these policies.
reviewed annually, taking into account commercial other investments measured at cost, to determine and technological obsolescence as well as normal whether there is any indication that those assets wear and tear, provision being made where the have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
121 Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Changes in the fair value of derivative financial costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, Groups risk management policies approved by the instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting the estimated future cash flows are discounted to Board of Directors, which provide written principles are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an reflects current market assessments of the time value Groups risk management strategy.
exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset of money and the risks specific to the asset for which Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, the the estimates of future cash flows have not been at fair value at the date the derivative contract is hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value adjusted.
entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their attributable to the risk being hedged with the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cashfair value at the end of each reporting period.
The gain corresponding entry in net income.
Gains or losses generating unit is estimated to be less than its or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is from remeasuring the derivative, or for noncarrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset recognised in the income statement unless the derivatives, the foreign currency component of its or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable derivative qualifies for hedge accounting when carrying amount, are recognised in net income.
An impairment loss is recognised as an recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation expense immediately.
on the nature of the item being hedged.
Subsequent Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are to initial recognition, the fair values of financial At the end of each reporting period, an assessment accounted for on a similar basis to cash flow hedges.
instruments measured at fair value that are quoted is made to determine whether there is any indication Effective gains or losses on the hedging instrument in an active market are based on bid prices for assets that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods are recognised in other comprehensive income and held and offer prices for liabilities held.
If the market may no longer exist or has decreased.
Where such an accumulated in the translation reserve, with ineffective for a financial instrument is not active, its fair value is indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the gains or losses recognised in finance costs in the established by using valuation techniques.
These extent that the assets carrying value does not exceed income statement.
Cumulative gains or losses in valuation techniques include comparison with similar the carrying amount that would have been equity are taken to the income statement on disposal instruments where market observable prices exist, determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, of the foreign operation.
discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models if no impairment loss had been recognised.
and other valuation techniques commonly used by Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in market participants.
other financial instruments or other non-financial host r Non-current assets held for sale contracts are treated as separate derivatives when Non-current assets classified as held for sale are All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets their risks and characteristics are not closely related measured at the lower of the assets previous are recognised on the trade date, being the date that to those of the host contracts and the host contracts carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets.
are not carried at fair value.
No depreciation is charged on assets classified Regular way transactions require delivery of assets as held for sale.
within the time frame generally established by Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated regulation or convention in the market place.
derivatives are reported in the income statement.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of t Leasing sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
derivative financial instruments that are designated A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor This condition is regarded as met only when the sale and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are conveys to the lessee, in return for a payment or a is highly probable and the asset is available for recognised directly in equity and the ineffective series of payments, the right to use a specific asset for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management portion is recognised immediately in the income an agreed period of time.
The definition can include must be committed to the sale, which should be statement.
arrangements such as long-term PPAs, where power expected to qualify for recognition as a completed Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to plants are specifically designated to fulfil the sale within one year from the date of classification.
the income statement in the period in which the requirements of an agreement.
hedged item also affects the income statement.
s Derivative financial instruments Finance leases Group as lessor Where the Group However, if the hedged item results in the recognition The Groups operating activities expose it to price determines a long-term PPA to be or to contain a of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts risks associated with selling its generation output.
lease, and where the offtaker has the principal risks accumulated in equity on the hedging instrument The Group is also exposed to price risks associated and rewards of ownership of the power plant through are transferred from equity and included in the initial with the purchase of its fuel requirements and to its contractual arrangements with the Group, the measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange arrangement is considered a finance lease.
As rates and interest rates.
The Group uses a range of Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging discussed in note 1h, capacity payments are derivative instruments, including energy-based futures instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or apportioned between minimum lease payments and forward contracts, swaps and options to hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, comprising capital repayments relating to the its risk to changes in power prices, fuel costs, foreign for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss provision of the plant and finance income and service exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is income.
The finance income is recognised as revenue, instruments are principally used for hedging purposes retained in equity until the forecasted transaction using a rate of return specific to the plant to give a although some are used for proprietary trading occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected constant periodic rate of return on the net investment purposes within defined risk limits.
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in each period.
Service income is recognised in each in equity is transferred to the income statement.
accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance under the contract.
It should be noted that the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchases of fuel on 1 January 2008.
The Group currently does not apply cash flow hedge accounting to such arrangements.
Financial statements 122 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued w Loans and bonds Issue costs are apportioned between the liability Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially and embedded option components of the convertible Arrangements that do not convey the right to use at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
bonds recorded as equity or as a derivative liability a specific asset through the term of the agreement Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing based on their relative carrying amounts at the date result in the continued recognition of property, plant borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any of issue.
and equipment, rather than a finance lease receivable, difference between cost and redemption value being which is depreciated over its economic life.
The interest expense on the liability component is recognised in the income statement over the period calculated by applying the prevailing market interest The amounts due from lessees under finance leases of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability are recorded in the statement of financial position as component of the instrument.
This interest expense, financial assets, classified as finance lease receivables, x Convertible bonds recognised in the income statement, is calculated at the amount of the net investment in the lease after Convertible bonds are regarded as compound using the effective interest method, i. e. the difference making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
instruments, consisting of a liability component between the interest expense on the liability and either an equity component or an embedded Operating leases Group as lessor An operating component and the interest paid is added to derivative component.
lease is any lease other than a finance lease.
Thus the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability where the Group determines a long-term PPA to component is estimated using the prevailing market be or to contain a lease, and where the Group retains y Borrowing costs interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the difference between the proceeds of issue of the power plant, the arrangement is considered an acquisition, construction or production of qualifying convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the operating lease.
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a liability component represents the value of either substantial period of time to be prepared for their For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised as an equity component or an embedded derivative intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those property, plant and equipment and depreciated over component attributable to the embedded option assets, until such time as the assets are substantially its economic life.
to convert the bonds into equity of the Group.
ready for their intended use or sale.
As referred to in Rental income from operating leases is recognised on note 1s, to the extent that variable rate borrowings IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement.
are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed in an effective cash flow hedge of interest rate risk, the Operating leases Group as lessee Rentals payable number of its own equity instruments in exchange hedging gain or loss relating to the effective portion under operating leases are charged to the income for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset of the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve statement on a straight-line basis over the term is an equity instrument.
It also states that a contract and recognised as part of the initial carrying amount of the relevant lease.
that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving of the asset.
Investment income earned on the a fixed number of its own equity instruments in Benefits received and receivable as an incentive temporary investment of specific borrowings pending exchange for a variable amount of cash or another to enter into an operating lease are also spread their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
For the purposes of the consolidated financial Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under statements, when making the assessment of whether All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit terms such that the rental income is less than the a convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
head-lease rental cost, provision is made for the best the exchange of a fixed or variable amount of cash, estimate of unavoidable lease payments during the or other financial asset, the functional currency z Provisions vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of of the parent company relative to the currency Provisions are recognised when the Group has a sub-lease income compared with the head-lease denomination of the bonds is considered in addition present obligation as a result of a past event, it is expense.
to other features within the bond.
probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount can be reliably For convertible bonds issued by the Group where u Inventories estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors there is a difference between the currency of the bond Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and consumables best estimate of the expenditure required to settle and the functional currency of the parent company, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the obligation at the end of the reporting period, the embedded option to convert the bonds is Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, and are discounted to present value where the recorded as a derivative liability because it is not a direct labour costs and those overheads that have effect is material.
contract to exchange a fixed number of shares for been incurred in bringing the inventories to their a fixed amount of bonds.
The embedded derivative Provisions are made for onerous contracts.
Provisions present location and condition.
Cost is calculated liability component is separately identified and for onerous contracts are also made on acquisition using the weighted average method.
measured at fair value through profit or loss.
as part of the fair valuing of assets and liabilities in a business combination where such contracts relate v Cash and cash equivalents For convertible bonds issued by the Group where to non-financial items, which qualify for own use Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances the currency of the bond and the functional currency treatment in accordance with the requirements of and cash held by the Group and short-term deposits of the parent company are the same, i. e. where on IAS 39.
Provisions are initially recognised at fair value with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank conversion of the bonds a fixed number of shares is and at the end of subsequent reporting periods at overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form exchanged for a fixed amount of bonds, the value the amount initially recognised less cumulative part of the Groups cash management are included of the embedded option to convert the bonds is amortisation.
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for recorded within equity on initial recognition.
the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
123 aa Decommissioning costs Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Provision is made for reliably estimated temporary differences arising on investments in determined by discounting the estimated future cash decommissioning costs at the end of the useful subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Where the outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate economic life of the Groups power stations and Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary bonds that are denominated in the currency in which generating assets, if and when a legal or constructive difference and it is probable that the temporary the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to obligation arises, on a discounted basis.
The amount difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, maturity approximating to the terms of the related provided represents the present value of the expected no deferred tax liability is recognised.
An amount equivalent to the initial provision is assets arising from deductible temporary differences Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience capitalised within property, plant and equipment and associated with such investments are only recognised adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are is depreciated over the useful lives of the related to the extent that it is probable that there will be recognised in the statement of comprehensive income assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are within finance costs.
benefits of the temporary differences and they are recognised immediately in income to the extent that expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where there is a subsequent change in estimate benefits have vested, otherwise costs are amortised of decommissioning costs, the present value of the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
change is recognised in the cost of property, plant reviewed at the end of the reporting period and ae Share-based payments and equipment.
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable The Group issues equity-settled share-based that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled ab Environmental liabilities all or part of the asset to be recovered.
share-based payments are measured at fair value Provision for environmental liabilities is made when Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting expenditure on remedial work is probable, the Group expected to apply in the period in which the liability conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value is obliged, either legally or constructively through its is settled or the asset is realised.
Current and deferred determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled environmental policies, to undertake such work and tax is charged or credited in the income statement, share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line the amount can be reliably estimated.
Where the except when it relates to items charged or credited basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups amount is expected to be incurred over the directly to the statement of comprehensive income or estimate of the shares that will eventually vest long-term, the amount recognised is the present equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with and where applicable, adjusted for the effect of value of the estimated future expenditure and in the statement of comprehensive income or equity.
non-market-based vesting conditions including the unwinding of the discount is included within service conditions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset to the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset For the Groups Executive Share Option Plans the fair ac Tax current tax assets and current tax liabilities, they relate values are measured using the Black-Scholes pricing The tax expense represents the sum of the expected to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the model.
The expected lives used in these models have tax payable on taxable income for the year, including Group intends to settle its current tax assets and been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, adjustments in respect of prior periods and deferred liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and settle for the effects of non-transferability, any exercise tax.
Taxable profit differs from accounting profit, as a liability simultaneously.
reported in the income statement or statement of Tax expense is recognised in each interim period For conditional awards, made under the 2002 comprehensive income, because it excludes items based on the best estimate of the weighted average Performance Share Plan, without a market-related of income or expense that are taxable or deductible annual tax rate expected for the full financial year.
performance condition, the fair values have been in other years and it further excludes items that are calculated as the face value of the award, discounted never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for ad Pension schemes for the non-entitlement to dividends during the current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been Payments to defined contribution pension plans are vesting period.
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the charged as an expense in the income statement in reporting period.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 the periods during which services are rendered by Performance Share Plan, contain a market-related Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences employees.
Payments made to state managed defined performance condition, the fair values are measured between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities benefit pension plans are dealt with as payments using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
in the financial statements and the corresponding to defined contribution plans where the Groups tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
obligations under the plans are equivalent to those Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all arising in a defined contribution pension plan.
deductible temporary differences to the extent that it The liability recognised in the statement of financial is probable that taxable profits will be available against position in respect of defined benefit pensions plans which those deductible temporary differences can be is the present value of the defined benefit obligations utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not at the end of the reporting period less the fair value recognised if the temporary difference arises from of plan assets, together with adjustments for goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, or from unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit the initial recognition other than in a business obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit combination of other assets and liabilities in a method, with actuarial valuations being carried out transaction that affects neither the taxable profit at the end of each reporting period.
Financial statements 124 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Segment reporting The Group is a global energy business that focuses on power generation.
The international operations are managed as five separate geographic regions, namely North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia and Asia, and this reflects the different characteristics within each region.
The segment disclosures are based on the components that the Board monitors in making decisions about operating matters.
Such components are identified on the basis of internal reports that the Board reviews regularly in allocating resources to segments and in assessing their performance, which are prepared on a basis which excludes exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
As the Group is structured and managed as five regions, the segment results, assets and liabilities are presented in this way.
The accounting policies applied in the presentation of results of the five reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 1.
Refer to notes 35 and 36 for a list of significant entities within each region.
a Revenue All five reportable segments derive their revenue from electricity generation.
There is no inter-segment revenue, therefore only revenue obtained from customers external to the Group is presented.
The results presented reflect the geographical location of both the businesses and their customers, i. e. there are no material cross-border sales.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m Revenue excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 669 202 871 864 210 1,074 Europe 1,816 425 2,241 1,798 532 2,330 Middle East 99 193 292 79 135 214 Australia 841 12 853 701 11 712 Asia 46 598 644 40 521 561 3,471 1,430 4,901 3,482 1,409 4,891 Revenue including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 618 202 820 939 210 1,149 Europe 1,943 425 2,368 1,975 532 2,507 Middle East 99 193 292 79 135 214 Australia 960 12 972 788 11 799 Asia 46 598 644 40 521 561 3,666 1,430 5,096 3,821 1,409 5,230 In addition to the revenue of five reportable segments above, the following tables present the revenue from external customers attributed to the UK, International Powers country of domicile, and attributed to individual foreign countries where they are material.
The other category is used to aggregate individual foreign countries which are not material.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m Revenue excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements US 666 60 726 863 92 955 Italy 113 90 203 127 162 289 UK 1,238 81 1,319 1,139 72 1,211 Australia 841 12 853 701 11 712 Other 613 1,187 1,800 652 1,072 1,724 3,471 1,430 4,901 3,482 1,409 4,891 Revenue including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements US 615 60 675 938 92 1,030 Italy 113 90 203 127 162 289 UK 1,367 81 1,448 1,313 72 1,385 Australia 960 12 972 788 11 799 Other 611 1,187 1,798 655 1,072 1,727 3,666 1,430 5,096 3,821 1,409 5,230 125 Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and restated ventures and restated associates associates m m m m m m b Profit from operations Profit from operations excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 100 34 134 148 29 177 Europe 561 68 629 500 81 581 Middle East 51 34 85 43 26 69 Australia 229 4 233 163 4 167 Asia 18 110 128 15 89 104 959 250 1,209 869 229 1,098 Corporate 52 52 49 49 907 250 1,157 820 229 1,049 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within profit from operations 242 106 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,399 1,155 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 110 39 149 135 21 156 Europe 647 68 715 577 81 658 Middle East 51 35 86 43 25 68 Australia 349 4 353 214 4 218 Asia 18 130 148 15 89 104 1,175 276 1,451 984 220 1,204 Corporate 52 52 49 49 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,123 276 1,399 935 220 1,155 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,399 1,155 Disposals of interests in businesses exceptional 449 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 439 368 Net finance costs exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 107 366 Profit before tax 1,302 1,153 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 113 123 Tax expense exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 46 100 Profit for the year 1,143 930 An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
Financial statements 126 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Segment reporting continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m c Depreciation and amortisation expenses excluding exceptional items North America 99 77 Europe 167 135 Middle East 4 4 Australia 102 77 Asia 4 4 376 297 Corporate 2 1 378 298 Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m d Additions to property, plant and equipment North America 92 510 Europe 119 142 Middle East 4 2 Australia 85 83 Asia 1 1 301 738 Corporate 5 301 743 The table above includes property, plant and equipment recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to expenditure incurred during the year.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Goodwill Contracts Emission Goodwill Contracts Emission and rights certificates and rights certificates m m m m m m e Expenditure on goodwill and other intangible assets North America 23 3 1 Europe 28 41 5 44 Australia 6 Asia 8 23 37 41 13 45 The table above includes purchased goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to expenditure incurred on other intangible assets.
Corporate assets and liabilities include cash held at the corporate level, included in cash and cash equivalents: corporate borrowings, included in loans and bonds: and provisions.
h Non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post employment benefit assets In addition to the segment assets and liabilities disclosed in notes 2f and 2g, the following table presents the non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post employment benefit assets located in the UK, International Powers country of domicile, and located in individual foreign countries where they are material.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 1 January 2008 Segment Investments Total Segment Investments Total Segment Investments Total assets in joint assets in joint assets in joint ventures and ventures and ventures and associates associates associates m m m m m m m m m Non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post employment benefit assets US 1,945 50 1,995 2,252 66 2,318 1,225 45 1,270 Italy 1,754 133 1,887 1,960 141 2,101 1,544 87 1,631 UK 1,594 28 1,622 1,605 25 1,630 1,572 22 1,594 Australia 2,326 8 2,334 2,038 1 2,039 1,850 10 1,860 Other 475 1,415 1,890 600 1,523 2,123 431 1,115 1,546 8,094 1,634 9,728 8,455 1,756 10,211 6,622 1,279 7,901 Financial statements 128 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 3 Profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting : Amortisation of other intangible assets excluding exceptional items 51 23 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment excluding exceptional items 327 275 Exceptional items before tax note 8 354 57 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements before tax note 8 230 529 Development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised 9 16 Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment 31 7 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 12 10 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of joint ventures and associates but before disposals of interests in businesses, finance income, finance expenses and tax.
Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of operations and maintenance services, profit on sale of development sites and dividends from entities which are not accounted for under the equity method.
Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide general administrative overheads and project development expenses.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Auditors remuneration: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.5 3.3 Other services 0.1 3.2 3.8 Other services comprise other services supplied pursuant to legislation, tax services, services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group and services relating to information technology.
In aggregate, these services had a value of 0.1 million during 2009 2008: nil.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of certain taxation and regulatory advice, and the completion of certain financial due diligence work.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
129 4 Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Group finance income Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss on: available-for-sale financial assets 3 1 loans to joint ventures and associates 21 18 cash and cash equivalents 15 56 Group interest income calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss 39 75 Foreign exchange gains 29 Total Group finance income 39 104 Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest income of 40 million 2008: 34 million.
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 23 and 30d.
5 Finance expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Group finance expenses excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Interest on: bank loans and overdrafts 335 351 other loans and bonds 128 118 unwinding discount on provisions 2 2 other payables 5 8 Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 470 479 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 3 7 Foreign exchange losses 11 Total interest expense on liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 478 472 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments losses gains 107 366 Total Group finance expenses 585 106 Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 23 and 30d.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense of 106 million 2008: 143 million.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to a gain of 33 million 2008: a charge of 10 million.
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses include a charge of 80 million in respect of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 2008: a credit of 239 million, a charge of 25 million in respect of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 2008: a credit of 76 million and a charge of 4 million in respect of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 2008: a credit of 74 million refer to note 8.
Financial statements 130 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 6 Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Employee benefit costs, including Directors remuneration, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Wages and salaries 192 165 Social security costs 13 11 Post-employment benefits Defined contribution plans 7 5 Defined benefit plans note 7 12 6 Share-based payments equity settled 7 6 231 193 Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment 4 3 Total employee benefit costs 227 190 The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Number Number North America 379 363 Europe 1,323 1,355 Middle East 523 537 Australia 900 844 Asia 599 608 Corporate and development 212 205 Average number of employees 3,936 3,912 7 Retirement benefit obligations Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees.
Benefits granted have been developed to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia: UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS, which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds.
The ESPS is divided into sections and the International Power Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees past service rights were transferred into the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, the First Hydro Group.
Following a strategic review of the Groups exposure to pension risk over the long-term and a period of consultation with employees and their representatives, both the International Power Group of the ESPS and the First Hydro Group of the ESPS in the UK were closed to new members effective from 1 June 2008.
Existing members continue to accrue future service benefits under these plans.
UK employees hired after 1 June 2008 have been eligible to become members of a defined contribution pension plan.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2007.
The results of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2009 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2009, approximately 59% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 89% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related to members in service.
131 AUSTRALIA: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper.
This plan provides benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria.
Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 June 2008 and 1 July 2008 for Equipsuper and the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme respectively.
At 31 December 2009, 96% of the pension liability in respect of the Australian schemes relates to members in service.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit credit method.
As set out in note 1d, the Group has decided to recognise gains and losses immediately through the statement of comprehensive income.
As such, a credit to shareholders equity has been made as at 1 January 2008 of 17 million.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in 2009 were losses of 13 million 2008: 75 million.
The charge for 2009 in respect of defined contribution plans was 7 million 2008: 5 million.
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia % % % % % % % % % % Discount rate 5.7 4.8 5.7 3.7 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.6 Rate of increase in salaries 5.2 4.0 4.4 4.5 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.3 4.4 4.0 Inflation rate 3.7 3.0 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 3.7 n a 2.9 n a 3.4 n a 3.1 n a 2.9 n a Increases to pensions payments 3.7 n a 2.9 n a 3.4 n a 3.1 n a 2.9 n a The mortality assumptions used have a significant impact on scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The UK mortality assumptions at 31 December 2009 are based on a standard table derived from 19992002 census data.
The mortality tables allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups.
The following table of average life expectancies illustrates the mortality assumptions used: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 UK UK UK UK UK years years years years years Life expectancy for a member aged 60 at year-end Men 26.1 26.0 25.9 22.8 22.8 Women 28.7 28.6 28.5 26.1 26.1 Life expectancy for a member aged 60 in 20 years time Men 27.5 27.4 27.3 23.7 23.7 Women 29.7 29.6 29.5 27.2 27.2 The plans in Australia provide lump sums at retirement and therefore the mortality assumptions are much less important.
The amounts recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended 31 December 2009, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m restated Current service cost 11 10 Past service cost 2 Expected return on schemes assets 16 19 Interest on schemes liabilities 15 15 Total operating charge 12 6 Amounts charged to cost of sales were 6 million 2008: 1 million and charged to other operating expenses were 6 million 2008: 5 million.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Actuarial gains losses on fair value of assets 19 73 Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations 32 2 Actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 13 75 Financial statements 132 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 7 Retirement benefit obligations continued The expected long-term rates of return weighted averages on the assets in the schemes were as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia % % % % % % % % % % Equities 8.0 7.8 7.4 7.8 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.8 7.1 7.5 Bonds 5.1 5.1 5.4 5.1 5.2 5.1 4.7 4.6 4.4 5.0 Other 7.0 6.1 6.7 6.0 6.7 6.0 6.2 5.9 6.0 5.9 Total long-term rate of return expected 7.4 7.0 6.9 7.0 7.5 7.0 7.1 6.7 6.6 6.7 The expected rates of return reflect the Groups best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class.
These returns are based on advice provided by independent qualified actuaries.
The expected rates of return on bonds reflect the plans mix between index-linked, government and corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to long-term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities.
Other assets principally comprise cash, property and hedge funds.
The expected return on cash is derived from short-term interest rates and the return on cash instruments.
The expected return on other assets such as property is determined by adding an appropriate risk premium to government bonds in the relevant country.
Assets in the scheme were as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Equities 100 74 174 80 57 137 116 68 184 108 55 163 84 52 136 Bonds 19 16 35 19 16 35 20 18 38 17 15 32 14 17 31 Other 38 30 68 29 18 47 19 23 42 10 21 31 16 15 31 Total market value of assets 157 120 277 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 Following the change in accounting policy outlined in note 1d the reconciliation of the schemes deficits surpluses to the carrying amount in the statement of financial position is: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Total market value of assets 157 120 277 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 Present value of scheme liabilities 230 144 374 177 124 301 176 93 269 158 83 241 151 79 230 Deficit surplus in the scheme 73 24 97 49 33 82 21 16 5 23 8 15 37 5 32 Movements in fair value of assets: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 219 264 Expected return on assets 16 19 Actuarial gains losses 19 73 Employer contributions 13 7 Scheme participants contributions 4 3 Benefits paid, net of transfers in 7 10 Expenses, taxes and premiums paid 1 Exchange differences 14 9 At 31 December 277 219 133 Movements in defined benefit obligations: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 301 269 Service cost 11 10 Interest cost 15 15 Actuarial losses 32 2 Scheme participants contributions 4 3 Benefits paid, net of transfers in 7 10 Settlements, curtailments and amendments 2 Expenses, taxes and premiums paid 1 Exchange differences 17 12 At 31 December 374 301 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Increase Increase effect effect % % Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 7.8 8.5 Rate of increase in salaries Increase by 0.5% 3.1 3.3 Inflation UK plans only Increase by 0.5% 11.5 11.7 Rate of mortality UK plans only Life expectancy increases by one year 3.0 3.0 A history of experience gains and losses is as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes assets: Amount m 19 73 4 9 16 Percentage of schemes assets 7% 33% 2% 4% 8% Experience gains losses on schemes liabilities : Amount m 4 3 5 2 11 Percentage of the present value of schemes liabilities 1% 1% 2% 1% 5% Does not include the effect of changes in assumptions.
Contributions in 2010 The Group expects to make contributions of approximately 15 million to its defined benefit pension arrangements in 2010.
Financial statements 134 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately presents exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Those items that the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
Where these contracts do not achieve own use treatment, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to market movements on these contracts, recorded within the consolidated income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity are also separately presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Mark to market movements 195 339 Amounts recognised in revenue 195 339 Impairment of Levanto wind farms 70 Impairment of Milford plant 37 Mark to market movements 116 167 Amounts recognised in cost of sales 46 204 Impairment of available-for-sale investment 25 Australian stamp duty 20 Amounts recognised in other operating expenses 25 20 Mark to market movements 26 9 Amounts recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates 26 9 Disposal of International Power Opatovice 427 Disposal of Hartwell 22 Amounts recognised in disposals of interests in businesses 449 Mark to market movements on: 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 80 239 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 25 76 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 4 74 Other mark to market movements 2 23 Amounts recognised in finance expenses 107 366 Taxation on impairment of Levanto wind farms 19 Taxation on disposal of Hartwell 8 Recognition of US tax losses 59 Taxation on mark to market movements 57 159 Exceptional taxation and taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 46 100 Total exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after attributable taxation 538 372 Exceptional items recognised in cost of sales On 31 December 2009 the Group assessed whether there had been any objective evidence that the finance lease receivable, relating to the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms, had been impaired.
Using observed historical wind volumes, in order to determine more reliable forecasts of future wind volumes, and updated forecasts of operating costs, the impact on future cash flows was estimated.
The result of this impairment test valuation was to recognise within cost of sales an impairment to the finance lease receivable of 70 million, and within the total taxation charge for the year an associated deferred tax credit of 19 million.
This impairment is recorded within the Europe region in the segment reporting.
On 31 December 2008 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Milford power plant based on its estimated value in use.
Principally as a result of its long-term power purchase agreement coming to an end, and the projections of forward capacity and energy prices, the carrying amount of the plant was impaired by 37 million.
There was no tax credit associated with this impairment.
The impairment was recorded within the North America region in the segment reporting.
Exceptional items recognised in other operating expenses On 31 December 2009 the Group assessed whether there had been any objective evidence that the carrying amount of its available-for-sale investments had been impaired.
The result of this impairment test valuation was to recognise within other operating expenses an impairment of 25 million to the carrying amount of an investment pertaining to the Eggborough power plant, in the United Kingdom.
The impairment is recorded within the Europe region in the segment reporting.
In 2004, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, International Power through our IPM Eagle partnership with Mitsui acquired the Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in Victoria, Australia.
Although at the time we did not consider any Australian stamp duty would be payable, the Victorian State Revenue Office VSRO challenged that position.
In 2008 we signed a settlement agreement with the VSRO, under which we agreed to make payments for stamp duty on the transaction spread over 5 years.
The 20 million charged as an exceptional item represents the present value of those payments.
These impacts were recorded within the Australia region in the segment reporting.
135 Exceptional items recognised in disposals of interests in businesses On 13 November 2009 the Group completed the sale of International Power Opatovice, and its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans, to the Czecho-Slovak investment firm J&T Group.
Net consideration from the disposal, after costs, was 593 million and the profit on disposal was 427 million.
There was no tax charge associated with this disposal refer to note 29c.
On 14 October 2009, International Power, together with its joint venture partner, completed the sale of Hartwell Energy, a 318MW gas and oil-fired peaking facility located in Georgia, US, to Oglethorpe Power Corporation.
Proceeds from the 50% stake in Hartwell Energy amounted to 33 million and the profit on disposal was 22 million, including a reclassification adjustment of 1 million from the translation reserve.
A tax charge of 8 million has also been recognised.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are separately identified within the preceding table, described as mark to market movements.
For the year ended 31 December 2009 the impact of these movements on profit before tax is a profit of 230 million and on tax expense a charge of 57 million 2008: profit of 529 million and on tax expense a charge of 159 million.
As outlined in note 1d, the comparatives have been restated for the effects of the change in accounting policy in relation to convertible bonds.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, this restatement has resulted in a credit to mark to market movements recorded within finance expenses of 239 million and a tax charge of 67 million.
Exceptional taxation As a result of the acquisition in 2008 of the portfolio of North American peaking plants, the recoverability of certain International Power US tax losses for which no deferred tax asset had previously been recognised was re-assessed.
The acquisition created significant deferred tax liabilities, against which the tax losses can be offset in future, and hence a deferred tax asset for those losses was recognised.
9 Tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m a Tax expense for the year Current tax charge UK corporation tax charge 61 55 Foreign tax 76 69 Adjustments in respect of prior years 26 18 Total current tax charge for the year 111 142 Deferred tax charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 68 169 Benefits of tax losses recognised 20 88 Total deferred tax charge for the year 48 81 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 113 123 Exceptional tax credit 59 Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 46 159 Total tax expense for the year 159 223 Included in the tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recorded in: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Revenue 24 75 Cost of sales 53 34 Finance expenses 39 118 Disposals of interests in businesses 8 Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 46 159 Financial statements 136 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 9 Tax continued The deferred tax charge is derived as follows: 53 million from UK operations 2008: charge of 89 million and credit of 5 million from foreign operations 2008: credit of 8 million.
Tax is charged credited to: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Income statement 159 223 Equity 6 19 165 204 Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items and specific and specific and specific and specific IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark to market to market to market to market movements movements movements movements restated restated m m m m b Reconciliation of tax expense to accounting profit Profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 718 718 681 681 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 584 472 Profit before tax 718 1,302 681 1,153 Tax at domestic tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 201 365 194 329 Tax effect of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 2 2 13 23 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 48 53 22 21 Tax holidays 16 16 8 8 Expenses not deductible income not taxable in determining taxable profit 34 79 28 33 Losses not recognised utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 4 4 16 9 Change in tax rate 25 24 Adjustment to prior year provisions 60 60 41 41 Recognition of US tax losses refer to note 8 59 Tax expense for the year 113 159 123 223 Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 67 million 2008: 31 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 48 million shown above 2008: 22 million represents 72% of this tax charge 2008: 71.5%.
The remaining 28% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 74 million 2008: 30 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 53 million shown above 2008: 21 million represents 72% of this tax charge 2008: 71.5%.
From 1 July 2009 the UK introduced an exemption from tax for certain dividends received by UK tax resident entities.
As a result of this legislative change, the provision for unremitted earnings of joint ventures and associates has been reduced by 35 million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
This has been included within adjustment to prior year provisions in the tax reconciliation above.
The statutory tax rate in the UK was reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.
137 10 Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be found in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated pence pence a Earnings per share basic Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 33.4 32.4 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 65.5 55.5 b Earnings per share diluted Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 32.8 30.5 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 62.7 34.6 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m c Basis of calculation basic earnings Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 508 489 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and minority interests 488 349 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 996 838 d Basis of calculation diluted earnings Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 508 489 After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds 40 31 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 548 520 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and minority interests 488 349 After tax dilutive effect of specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on convertible bonds 11 280 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,047 589 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 million million e Basis of calculation basic number of Ordinary Shares Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,521.3 1,510.3 Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 0.1 Weighted average number of shares 1,521.3 1,510.2 f Basis of calculation diluted number of Ordinary Shares Weighted average number of shares basic 1,521.3 1,510.2 Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Employee share schemes 4.4 8.7 Convertible bonds 143.6 183.2 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,669.3 1,702.1 Financial statements 138 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 10 Earnings per share continued In the accounting periods presented, the dilutive impact of the Groups convertible bonds has been treated as follows when calculating dilutive earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 Anti-dilutive Dilutive 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 Dilutive Dilutive 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 Dilutive Dilutive The treatment of whether potential Ordinary Shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive in the calculation of diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is applied consistently with its determination in the calculation of diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Impact of changes in accounting policies As outlined in note 1d the comparatives have been restated for the effects of the changes in accounting policies relating to the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 and the treatment of defined benefit retirement plans.
The impact of these changes on the results for the year ended 31 December 2008 were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 Profit for the Profit for the year excluding year including exceptional exceptional items and items and specific specific IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark to market to market movements movements m m As previously presented 559 759 Change in accounting policy relating to: 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 172 Defined benefit retirement plans 1 1 Restated 558 930 As a consequence of adopting the changes in accounting policies the weighted average numbers of Ordinary Shares for the basic earnings per share calculation and the diluted earnings per share calculation remain unchanged for the year ended 31 December 2008.
As a result of the changes in accounting policies, the basic earnings per share before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2008 remains unchanged.
The basic earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2008 has increased by 11.3 pence.
The diluted earnings per share before and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been decreased by 0.1 pence.
The impact of the changes in accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 Increase to Increase profit for the decrease to year excluding profit for the exceptional year including items and exceptional specific items and IAS 39 mark specific to market IAS 39 mark movements to market movements m m Change in accounting policy relating to: 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 56 Defined benefit retirement plans 3 3 As a consequence of adopting the changes in accounting policies the weighted average numbers of Ordinary Shares for the basic earnings per share calculation is unchanged for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the diluted earnings per share calculation decreased by 90.0 million, reflecting the anti-dilutive impact of the mark to market movements of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 following the change in accounting policy for the year ended 31 December 2009.
As a result of the changes in accounting policies, the basic earnings per share before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2009 has increased by 0.2 pence and the basic earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2009 decreased by 3.5 pence.
The diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2009 has increased by 1.2 pence.
The diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the year ended 31 December 2009 has decreased by 0.5 pence.
139 11 Dividends An interim dividend of 4.25 pence 2008: 3.56 pence per Ordinary Share, proposed by the Directors, was paid on 29 October 2009.
This dividend amounted to 64 million 2008: 54 million.
In respect of the current year, the Directors also propose a final dividend of 8.28 pence 2008: 8.59 pence per Ordinary Share.
This dividend equates to 126 million 2008: 131 million and will be paid on 24 June 2010, subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2009.
There are no tax consequences to the Company arising from these dividends.
12 Goodwill 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 941 733 Acquired through business combinations 41 Disposal of subsidiary 11 Exchange differences 43 167 At 31 December 887 941 No goodwill has been impaired in the current or prior periods.
The disposal in 2009 relates to International Power Opatovice in the Czech Republic see notes 8 and 29c.
The 41 million acquired through business combinations in 2008 relates to the acquisition of an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogs and an additional 27% shareholding in Portugen.
Refer to notes 29d to 29g for further details of the 2008 acquisitions.
Given the geographical diversity of the Groups businesses and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the Directors consider that each business is a separate cash generating unit.
The following cash generating units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Maestrale Europe 472 515 First Hydro Europe 163 163 Simply Energy Australia 100 87 Turbogs Europe 80 87 Coleto Creek North America 46 52 Saltend Europe 23 23 International Power Opatovice Europe 11 Others 3 3 887 941 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The cash generating units recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations.
Value in use calculations are based on projected cash flows from individual project whole life asset models and are updated during an annual valuation exercise approved by the Directors.
The projected risk-adjusted cash flows are expressed in nominal terms and extend over the whole of the assets expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the returns generated by the long-life assets.
The whole of life cash flows include those pertaining to the liquidation of the businesses at the end of the assets lives.
The key assumptions include the market prices for electricity, fuel, carbon and operating costs over the lives of the assets and the discount rates applied to the cash flows.
Market price assumptions are considered in the light of forward price curves which represents the Groups view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates and forecast demand and supply growth over the lives of the assets.
Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and start building additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Projected wind yields are based on historical data and wind study reports provided by third party consultants.
To test for impairment, the pre-tax cash flows have been discounted using pre-tax rates.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the respective cash generating unit.
Generally, the lower end of the discount rate range is applied to entities where demand risk is borne by the offtaker, while the upper end of the discount rate range is applied to merchant businesses, reflecting the increased demand risk and the possible variability of future cash flows.
Financial statements 140 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 12 Goodwill continued Key assumptions and sensitivities The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Remaining asset lives and period over which cash flows are discounted years 16 to 42 17 to 43 Pre-tax discount rates 7% to 12% 8% to 13% Sensitivity analysis The recoverable amounts of cash generating units are in excess of their carrying amounts.
For merchant generation businesses, a decrease in the forward price curves of electricity, and for long-term contracted PPA businesses, a reduction in the capacity payments, over the lives of the assets in the range of 4% to 24% 2008: 10% to 23% would be required for the cash generating units recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
Increasing the pre-tax discount rates between 1% and 18% 2008: 1% and 16% would be required for the cash generating units recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
The cash generating unit which applies the lowest discount rate has long-term contracted cash flows which are not subject to demand risk.
13 Other intangible assets Contracts Emission Total and rights certificates m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 354 121 475 Additions 10 45 55 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Disposals 58 58 Exchange differences 42 25 67 At 31 December 2008 409 133 542 Additions 37 37 Acquisition of subsidiaries 23 23 Disposals 86 86 Exchange differences 13 11 24 At 31 December 2009 419 73 492 Amortisation and impairments At 1 January 2008 255 52 307 Amortisation charge for the year 17 6 23 Exchange differences 13 3 16 At 31 December 2008 285 61 346 Amortisation charge for the year 27 24 51 Disposals 64 64 Exchange differences 4 3 7 At 31 December 2009 308 18 326 Carrying amount At 1 January 2008 99 69 168 At 31 December 2008 124 72 196 At 31 December 2009 111 55 166 The intangible assets acquired in 2009 include development projects relating to the acquisitions of AIM PowerGen by International Power Canada Inc which are assessed to have indefinite useful lives.
There are no other intangible assets, other than goodwill, with indefinite useful lives.
Contracts and rights with finite useful lives are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
In 2008 contracts and rights acquired principally relate to development rights for European wind farms and other renewables projects.
The amortisation of these contracts is included in cost of sales.
The Group has recognised any emission certificates, allocated to the Group for no consideration, net of the fair value of the grant.
As a result, no net asset or liability is shown in the statement of financial position at initial recognition.
The amortisation of any emission certificates purchased or acquired through business combinations is charged to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
As part of the European Union EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS, designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over the medium-term, the Group was granted emission certificates amounting to 116 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: 130 million.
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of 44 million 2008: 62 million are subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
141 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Assets in Total buildings machinery and course of equipment construction m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 170 6,467 229 6,866 Additions 2 141 114 257 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 485 486 Disposals 24 24 Reclassifications and transfers 99 154 55 Exchange differences 33 1,412 20 1,465 At 31 December 2008 206 8,580 209 8,995 Additions 7 100 146 253 Acquisition of subsidiaries 48 48 Disposal of subsidiary 59 218 4 281 Disposals 1 9 10 Reclassifications and transfers 185 200 15 Exchange differences 38 3 35 At 31 December 2009 153 8,600 202 8,955 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2008 43 1,102 1,145 Depreciation charge for the year 6 269 275 Impairment 37 37 Disposals 22 22 Exchange differences 7 235 242 At 31 December 2008 56 1,621 1,677 Depreciation charge for the year 6 321 327 Disposal of subsidiary 21 115 136 Disposals 1 8 9 Exchange differences 55 55 At 31 December 2009 40 1,874 1,914 Carrying amount At 1 January 2008 127 5,365 229 5,721 At 31 December 2008 150 6,959 209 7,318 At 31 December 2009 113 6,726 202 7,041 Interest capitalised in the year was 3 million 2008: 7 million, at an average capitalisation rate of 6%.
On a cumulative basis, after taking into account exchange differences and depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is 77 million 2008: 79 million.
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is 53 million 2008: 53 million.
In both 2009 and 2008 reclassifications and transfers consist of amounts moved from assets in course of construction to plant, machinery and equipment and to finance lease receivables and inventories.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 5,774 million 2008: 6,930 million is subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 1 million 2008: 1 million is subject to finance lease arrangements.
At the end of 2008 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Milford plant following its long-term power purchase agreement coming to an end and changes in prices in the forward capacity and energy markets.
This resulted in an impairment of 37 million.
A pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate of 15% was used for the calculation.
The impairment was included in cost of sales.
Financial statements 142 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups joint ventures and associates is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m a Joint ventures net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 1,704 2,010 Current assets 305 539 Total assets 2,009 2,549 Current liabilities 224 343 Non-current liabilities 1,052 1,084 Total liabilities 1,276 1,427 Net assets 733 1,122 Groups share of joint ventures net assets 384 577 b Associates net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 8,072 8,245 Current assets 1,736 2,277 Total assets 9,808 10,522 Current liabilities 1,344 1,779 Non-current liabilities 5,307 5,862 Total liabilities 6,651 7,641 Net assets 3,157 2,881 Groups share of associates net assets 1,250 1,179 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m c Results of joint ventures Total results of joint ventures Revenue 785 825 Profit for the year 165 135 Groups share of results of joint ventures Share of revenue 397 417 Share of profit for the year 96 67 d Results of associates Total results of associates Revenue 3,101 2,966 Profit for the year 508 426 Groups share of results of associates Share of revenue 1,033 992 Share of profit for the year 180 153 At 31 December 2009 the Groups investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited HUBCO and Kot Addu Power Company Limited KAPCO.
HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues to apply the equity method of accounting to HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% refer to note 37a.
The Groups share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at 46 million 2008: 25 million and 107 million 2008: 88 million, respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets.
Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments were above the carrying value of these investments at 31 December 2009.
Included within the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of 1,684 million 2008: 1,820 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group company.
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 36.
143 16 Other investments 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 47 13 Additions 29 34 Repayments 14 2 Impairment 25 Reclassification 30 Exchange differences 4 2 At 31 December 63 47 Other investments comprise investments available-for-sale including both debt and equity instruments in a number of businesses related to power generation.
The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of their discounted cash flows.
The equity instruments are not quoted but are shares in privately owned companies.
There is no market for these investments.
Therefore the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying amount has been determined by using the cost of acquiring the shares in these companies.
During the year ended 31 December 2009 available-for-sale investments have been impaired by 25 million refer to note 8.
The reclassification during 2009 comprises a transfer from derivative financial assets, following the exercise of an option.
It is not currently the intention of the Company to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change.
17 Finance lease receivables 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 168 174 Later than one year and not later than five years 647 687 Later than five years 1,680 1,937 2,495 2,798 Add: unguaranteed residual value 227 204 Gross investment in the lease 2,722 3,002 Less: unearned finance income 1,195 1,275 Total finance lease receivables 1,527 1,727 Analysed as: Present value of minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 57 58 Later than one year and not later than five years 242 262 Later than five years 1,001 1,203 1,300 1,523 Add: unguaranteed residual value 227 204 Total finance lease receivables 1,527 1,727 Non-current assets 1,470 1,669 Current assets 57 58 Total finance lease receivables 1,527 1,727 International Powers business is primarily the generation of electricity and provision of electrical capacity.
The Group enters into certain arrangements, such as long-term PPAs, to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases based on an assessment of who bears the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As outlined in note 1t, where arrangements are considered to be or to contain finance leases, the capacity payments are apportioned between minimum lease payments comprising capital repayments and finance income and service income.
The duration of minimum lease payments coincides with the tenors of the contracted cash flows and usually represents either a significant proportion, or all, of the assets life.
The interest rate inherent in the finance lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term.
The average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 7% per annum 2008: 7% per annum.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2009 is estimated at 1,586 million 2008: 1,724 million based on discounting estimated cash flows at market rates.
Additions to finance lease receivables during the year amount to 56 million 2008: nil in respect of acquisitions refer to note 29a and 18 million 2008: 50 million relating to assets constructed by the Group.
At 31 December 2009 the Group impaired the finance lease receivable relating to the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms by 70 million refer to note 8.
There are no finance lease receivables past due.
Finance lease receivables are due from strong investment grade counterparties including the German and Portuguese governments.
Financial statements 144 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 18 Other long-term receivables 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Total other long-term receivables 103 124 At 31 December 2009 receivables with a carrying amount of 9 million 2008: 10 million were past due for more than six months for which an impairment loss has not been recognised.
These receivables are with a strong investment grade counterparty and offsetting liabilities are also due.
19 Deferred tax Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated statement of financial position and the potential amounts of deferred tax are: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Total gross deferred tax assets 752 615 Less: deferred tax assets not recognised 49 63 Total deferred tax assets 703 552 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,570 1,404 Net deferred tax liabilities 867 852 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for statement of financial position purposes.
31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m Deferred tax assets 65 122 Deferred tax liabilities 932 974 Net deferred tax liabilities 867 852 Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
The Group has 219 million 2008: 267 million potential deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses.
Of this amount 163 million 2008: 174 million can be carried forward for a period of between 12 and 20 years.
The balance can be carried forward indefinitely.
The entire 219 million of losses has been recognised 2008: of the 267 million of losses, 253 million has been recognised.
At the end of the reporting period, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates was 6,087 million 2008: 5,849 million.
At 31 December 2009 a deferred tax provision of 33 million 2008: 80 million has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal of the timing difference and where tax may arise as a consequence of such a reversal.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally or the new UK dividend exemption.
145 Movement in temporary differences during the year: 1 January Recognised Recognised Acquisition and Other Exchange 31 December 2009 in income in equity disposal of movements differences 2009 statement subsidiaries m m m m m m m Intangible assets 23 5 1 2 15 Property, plant and equipment, and finance lease receivables 1,251 71 13 3 21 1,149 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 80 45 2 33 Derivative financial instruments 116 85 12 1 9 29 Employee benefits 31 4 5 3 37 Provisions 15 2 2 11 Tax losses 253 22 12 219 Other temporary differences 87 64 3 14 34 852 48 7 11 4 33 867 1 January Recognised Recognised Acquisition and Other Exchange 31 December 2008 in income in equity disposal of movements differences 2008 restated statement restated subsidiaries restated restated restated m m m m m m m Intangible assets 23 6 6 23 Property, plant and equipment, and finance lease receivables 1,030 38 67 83 199 1,251 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 59 15 6 80 Derivative financial instruments 241 157 27 5 116 Employee benefits 19 1 9 2 31 Provisions 18 8 1 3 1 15 Tax losses 107 88 3 61 253 Other temporary differences 38 42 4 1 4 8 87 689 81 32 67 87 134 852 20 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Plant spares 43 37 Fuel inventories 113 142 Consumables 95 96 Total inventories 251 275 Inventories with a carrying amount of 143 million 2008: 128 million are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities at various power plant subsidiaries.
These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc.
Included within cost of sales are 309 million 2008: 181 million of inventories recognised as an expense in the year.
Inventories with a carrying amount of 2 million 2008: 1 million were written off during the year and recorded as an expense in cost of sales in the income statement.
Financial statements 146 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 21 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Trade receivables 209 264 Other receivables 192 243 Accrued income 319 352 Prepayments 92 90 Total trade and other receivables 812 949 Included in trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 177 million 2008: 218 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.
Financial assets included in trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income are analysed as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Retail Corporate Government Total Retail Corporate Government Total m m m m m m m m Not overdue 34 467 96 597 25 580 83 688 Up to 1 month past due 8 1 9 6 1 7 Between 1 and 3 months past due 5 6 11 5 2 12 19 Between 3 and 6 months past due 2 1 3 2 2 More than 6 months past due 5 8 2 15 4 9 2 15 At 31 December 54 483 98 635 42 592 97 731 Retail energy sales are those to residential, commercial, and industrial customers to cover end-use purposes.
This mostly comprises sales to customers of Simply Energy in South Australia and Victoria in Australia.
Corporate energy sales are principally to merchant trading counterparties in the wholesale power market and comprise electricity utility companies, who require energy to meet retail sales requirements, and market makers such as large investment banks.
In the preceding table, the term Government is used to describe customers who are either owned directly by government or the state, or are institutions backed by guarantees from government.
Sales to these customers are typically administered under long-term power purchase agreements.
Examples of such customers will include water and electricity authorities located in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
The majority of the trade receivables, which are not overdue, relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
Corporate receivables more than six months overdue relate to contractual disputes where we have significant counter claims or offsetting liabilities.
The preceding table shows 38 million 6% of debtors are overdue and, of these, 29 million 5% relates to outstanding amounts greater than one month past due.
In respect of subsidiaries, for the year ended 31 December 2009, merchant trading and PPA counterparties have demonstrated a consistent payment history.
Trade receivables of 2 million were written off in 2009, which had previously been provided for, relating to retail energy sales 2008: 3 million was written off directly relating to commodity receivables from Lehman Brothers.
Management maintain a bad debt provision appropriate to the limited likelihood of retail, merchant and PPA payment defaults.
Total trade and other receivables are stated net of the following provisions for irrecoverable amounts.
31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 24 23 Amounts provided for during the year 3 4 Amounts recovered during the year 3 Amounts written off during the year 2 Disposal of subsidiary 1 Exchange differences 1 At 31 December 23 24 Concentrations of credit risk relating to the Groups wholesale power sales are limited due to the diversity of unrelated customers for our power plants located worldwide.
For the Groups retail business in Australia, Simply Energy, concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being both large and unrelated.
PPAs and tolling agreements with major institutions can potentially have high concentration risk but this risk is mitigated by the diversity of similar arrangements within our worldwide portfolio.
147 22 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank 647 790 Short-term deposits 546 339 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 1,193 1,129 The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes 418 million 2008: 417 million of cash which is considered to be restricted as it is primarily to fund maintenance and debt service reserves required by project finance agreements, and for letters of credit.
Cash equivalents include an amount of 43 million 2008: 154 million held by counterparties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities refer to note 30j.
23 Loans and bonds An analysis of the interest-bearing loans and bonds, which are measured at amortised cost, is as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Face value Carrying Face value Carrying amount amount m m m m a Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans and other loans 573 564 378 372 1 Secured bonds 18 18 17 17 591 582 395 389 Non-current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans and other loans 4,018 3,973 5,201 5,132 1 Secured bonds 651 693 691 738 4,669 4,666 5,892 5,870 Total secured interest-bearing loans and bonds 5,260 5,248 6,287 6,259 b Unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and other loans 25 25 29 29 2 Loans from minority interests 3 3 3 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 141 138 166 163 32 32 Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and other loans 11 11 173 172 2 Loans from minority interests 123 123 84 84 3 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 159 149 4 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 204 181 222 191 5 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 621 526 677 560 959 841 1,315 1,156 Total unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds 1,125 1,004 1,347 1,188 c Total interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 757 745 427 421 Non-current liabilities 5,628 5,507 7,207 7,026 Total interest-bearing loans and bonds 6,385 6,252 7,634 7,447 A description of the items in the above table is shown overleaf.
Financial statements 148 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 23 Loans and bonds continued 1 Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Secured bank loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks.
Secured bonds comprise those relating to the financing of First Hydro and the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of 5,248 million 2008: 6,259 million are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
With the exception of the convertible bonds, which are recourse, substantially all of the Groups power stations, generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to International Power plc and secured solely on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
The Group had no significant borrowings in default as at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
2 Loans from minority interests Loans from minority interests comprise both term loans and working capital facilities provided by minority shareholders in subsidiaries.
These loans and working capital facilities are provided on an unsecured basis for various maturity periods and have interest terms based on fixed or floating rates as specified in each individual agreement.
3 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 On 22 August 2003, International Power Jersey Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 3.75% convertible bonds due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 154p at any time up to 12 August 2023.
Each US$1,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited.
Upon a change of control the bonds may be redeemed at the holders option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
During 2008, 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 with a par value of 12 million US$24 million were redeemed through the issue of preference shares in International Power Jersey Limited and the subsequent issue of Ordinary Shares in International Power plc.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013 and 2018.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
On 17 January 2005, a cash settlement option held by International Power Jersey Limited was extinguished.
As described in note 1d the remaining conversion feature was previously recognised in equity, and following the change in accounting policy is now accounted for as a derivative and marked to market through profit or loss.
The remaining debt element of the convertible bond accretes to par value over the life of the bond at a constant periodic rate based on its carrying amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 7.4%.
This includes a coupon interest rate of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 at 31 December 2009 to be approximately 142 million 2008: 146 million.
This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2009.
4 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance Jersey II Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued 230 million 3.25% convertible bonds due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 352p at any time up to 20 July 2013.
Each 50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a 50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond have been split between the debt element and an embedded derivative component.
This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.6%.
This includes a coupon interest rate of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 at 31 December 2009 to be approximately 185 million 2008: 147 million.
149 5 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 On 5 June 2008, International Power Finance Jersey III Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued e700 million 4.75% convertible bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 548p with effect from 16 July 2008 up to 26 May 2015.
Each e50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a e50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 5 June 2015 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds have been split between the debt component and an embedded derivative component.
The interest charged during the year comprises two components: a coupon of 4.75% and accretion on the debt component set out above.
The overall effective interest rate is 8.4%.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 at 31 December 2009 to be approximately 580 million 2008: 400 million.
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations in Europe and Australia.
The carrying amount of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the end of the reporting period was: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Euro 727 773 Australian dollar 41 38 768 811 The foreign exchange gain of 58 million 2008: loss of 155 million on retranslation of these loans has been recognised in other comprehensive income on consolidation.
Maturity of borrowings The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest coupons, relating to loans and bonds and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2009 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans and other loans 725 473 2,584 1,817 5,599 54 1,008 4,537 Unsecured bank loans and other loans 26 9 1 2 38 2 36 Secured bonds 68 65 195 894 1,222 511 711 Loans from minority interests 5 5 129 139 16 123 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 3 5 16 189 213 75 138 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 4 7 217 228 2 45 181 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 27 30 88 636 781 7 248 526 858 594 3,230 3,538 8,220 63 1,905 6,252 31 December 2008 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans and other loans 672 1,392 2,659 2,306 7,029 75 1,450 5,504 Unsecured bank loans and other loans 38 34 152 3 227 1 25 201 Secured bonds 69 69 202 969 1,309 554 755 Loans from minority interests 10 7 96 1 114 27 87 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6 6 18 218 248 1 98 149 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 7 7 244 258 2 65 191 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 32 32 96 726 886 8 318 560 834 1,547 3,467 4,223 10,071 87 2,537 7,447 Other non-cash items represent debt issue costs.
The above tables assume the convertible bonds are redeemed by the payment of cash at maturity.
Financial statements 150 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 24 Net debt 1 January On acquisition On disposal Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2009 of subsidiaries of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2009 excluding cash excluding cash movements m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,129 49 15 1,193 Loans due within one year 404 23 490 291 9 589 Loans due after more than one year 5,388 85 140 474 554 198 4,107 Secured bonds due within one year 17 16 13 2 18 Secured bonds due after more than one year 738 20 25 693 Convertible bonds 900 25 80 845 Total debt 7,447 85 163 37 858 296 6,252 Net debt 6,318 85 163 37 907 311 5,059 1 January On acquisition On disposal Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2008 of subsidiaries of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2008 excluding cash excluding cash movements m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 169 137 1,129 Loans due within one year 376 4 46 70 404 Loans due after more than one year 4,347 2 8 42 1,073 5,388 Secured bonds due within one year 12 1 4 17 Secured bonds due after more than one year 682 4 14 74 738 Preferred equity facility 151 162 11 Convertible bonds 255 4 454 187 900 Total debt 5,823 2 12 191 1,419 7,447 Net debt 4,662 2 12 360 1,282 6,318 Included within other non-cash movements is the accretion of the carrying amount of the convertible bonds and amortisation of debt issue costs and fair value adjustments.
In 2008 they also included the issue of shares on redemption of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023.
25 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 102 160 Other payables 242 268 Accruals 484 443 Deferred income 47 23 Total trade and other payables 875 894 Included in trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 90 million 2008: 62 million.
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
All trade and other payables above are expected to fall due within one year.
151 26 Provisions Commodity Leave Site Other Total contracts provisions restoration m m m m m At 1 January 2009 49 25 32 35 141 Changes in accounting estimates 6 6 Provisions made during the year 6 7 13 Provisions utilised during the year 35 7 5 47 Unused amounts reversed during the year 12 12 Unwinding discount 1 1 2 Disposal of subsidiary 1 1 Exchange differences 3 3 2 1 1 At 31 December 2009 11 28 29 23 91 Analysed as: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Current liabilities 23 69 Non-current liabilities 68 72 Total provisions 91 141 Financial liabilities 35 48 Non-financial liabilities 56 93 Total provisions 91 141 Commodity contracts Commodity contracts principally relate to out of the money power sales contracts that were acquired as part of the acquisition of Coleto Creek in 2006 and the portfolio of North American peaking plants in 2008.
When the provisions are utilised they are credited to revenue in the income statement.
The provision relating to the North American peaking plants was fully utilised during the year and the remainder of the provision relating to Coleto Creek is expected to be fully utilised in 2010.
Leave provisions Leave provisions relate to unutilised annual and long service leave at the end of the reporting period.
The annual leave is expected to be taken over the next three years and the long service leave over the next 21 years.
The provision is calculated based on total employee cost.
Site restoration Site restoration provisions relate to legal obligations to restore land to a certain condition, at certain of the Groups power stations and wind farms, at the end of their useful lives and at its coal mine.
Site restoration provisions have been reduced by 6 million during the year following changes in accounting estimates.
The estimated present value of rehabilitating the sites at the end of their useful lives has been estimated using existing technology, at current prices, and discounted using discount rates of 5% to 6%.
The timing of these payments is dependent on various factors, such as the estimated lives of the power stations and extraction of coal from the mine, but is anticipated to occur between 2010 and 2047, with the substantial majority of the provisions being utilised from 2028 onwards.
Other Other provisions mostly comprise legacy pension commitments relating to non-Group members of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme and onerous property leases.
The remaining provisions are not expected to require settlement in the short-term.
The Directors are uncertain as to the timing of when these provisions will be utilised.
In 2008 other provisions also included amounts provided during the year for payments received and booked as revenue, subsequently against which a claim was made.
This provision was reversed during the current year following a satisfactory resolution to the claim.
27 Share-based payments a Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued by the Group out of authorised but unissued share capital upon exercise of employee share options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan: the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share Option Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
The total number of options and conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company outstanding at the end of the year was as follows: Option price range Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Sharesave Plans 200.00p389.00p 20112015 5,381,907 5,852,924 Executive Share Option Plans 62.32p388.25p 20032019 17,708,391 13,145,095 Total options outstanding 23,090,298 18,998,019 2002 Performance Share Plan 8,894,267 6,274,801 Total Ordinary Shares subject to employee share plans 31,984,565 25,272,820 Details of each plan are set out on the following pages.
Financial statements 152 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 Share-based payments continued The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions to invest up to a maximum of 250 or foreign currency equivalent per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group.
The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option.
Options are exercisable at the prices set out below.
The option exercise period commences either three or five years after the option has been granted determined at the time that the employee enters into the savings agreement and if the options remain unexercised after a period of six months following the beginning of the option exercise period, the options expire.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences.
Details of the share options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows: Option price Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 97.93p 20082009 55,020 97.93p 2009 83,163 200.00p 2009 1,235,737 200.00p 2011 986,381 1,008,657 389.00p 2011 229,251 369,742 389.00p 2013 406,961 496,149 262.00p 2012 842,388 1,151,556 262.00p 2014 1,068,350 1,452,900 239.00p 2013 1,144,657 239.00p 2015 703,919 5,381,907 5,852,924 The number and weighted average exercise prices of the Sharesave Plan share options are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 Year ended 31 December 2008 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Ordinary average Ordinary average Shares exercise price Shares exercise price in pence in pence Options outstanding at beginning of the year 5,852,924 253.14 6,429,720 188.63 Granted during the year 1,875,834 239.00 2,626,582 262.00 Exercised during the year 1,287,918 188.85 2,551,389 78.88 Expired during the year 8,422 200.00 34,708 70.78 Forfeited during the year 1,050,511 283.52 617,281 349.41 Options outstanding at end of the year 5,381,907 257.75 5,852,924 253.14 Options exercisable at end of the year 55,020 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Sharesave Plan share options exercised during the year was 246.83 pence 2008: 422.07 pence.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 200.00 pence to 389.00 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.4 years 2008: 3.2 years.
153 ii Executive Share Option Plans The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share option plans.
Options are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company.
The exercise price of the options is fixed at the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted.
The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns from the Company.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Executive Share Options exercised during the year was 277.22 pence 2008: 417.67 pence.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 388.25 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.4 years 2008: 6.3 years.
Financial statements 154 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 Share-based payments continued iii 2002 Performance Share Plan The 2002 Performance Share Plan is a discretionary employee share plan.
Under this plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company.
These conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition determined at the time that the conditional awards are made which relates to growth in normalised earnings per share and total shareholder return.
Details of the conditional awards over Ordinary Shares arising from the 2002 Performance Share Plan at the end of the year are as follows: Vesting year Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2,172,504 2010 1,835,297 1,878,772 2011 2,198,345 2,223,525 2012 4,860,625 8,894,267 6,274,801 The number of conditional rights over Ordinary Shares are as follows: Number of Ordinary Shares Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Awards outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,274,801 6,273,444 Conditional awards made during the year 4,964,373 2,327,229 Released during the year 2,110,587 1,875,661 Forfeited during the year 234,320 450,211 Awards outstanding at end of the year 8,894,267 6,274,801 b Fair value of options under Share Option Plans i Sharesave Plans The estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant, for those granted during the year, was 60 pence per share 2008: 39 pence per share.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Weighted average share price 267p 220p Weighted average exercise price 239p 262p Expected volatility 30% 30% Expected life 4 years 5 years Risk free rate 2.23% 4.28% Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.13% ii Executive Share Option Plans The estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant, for those granted during the year, was 42 pence per share 2008: 71 pence per share.
The inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Weighted average share price 210p 381p Weighted average exercise price 196p 370p Expected volatility 30% 25% Expected life 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 2.22% 3.87% Expected dividend yield 3.98% 3.13% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous five years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
155 iii 2002 Performance Share Plan The estimated fair value of conditional awards at the date of grant, over Ordinary Shares in the Company granted during the year, was 137 pence per share 2008: 247 pence per share.
For conditional awards made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without market-related performance condition, the fair values have been calculated as the face values of the award, discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
Inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Risk free rate 1.89% 3.89% Expected dividend yield 3.98% 3.13% 28 Share capital and reserves a Share capital Authorised Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m Number m At 1 January 2009 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,518,732,624 759 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 236,610 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 1,287,918 1 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 2,110,587 1 Increase in authorised share capital 734,000,000 367 At 31 December 2009 3,000,000,000 1,500 1,522,367,739 761 Authorised Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m Number m At 1 January 2008 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 3,400,824 2 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 2,551,389 1 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 1,621,671 1 Issue of shares under 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 9,219,227 4 At 31 December 2008 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,518,732,624 759 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to voting rights, the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder present in person or proxy has one vote in respect of every share held.
Deferred Shares The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 penny each in issue.
These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible.
The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting.
Unclassified share Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Companys authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of 1.
Capital and reserves The share capital represents the authorised Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends or capital of the Company.
The Company operates two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs in which shares may be held for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the Companys 2002 Performance Share Plan.
During the year 2,110,587 shares 2008: 1,621,671 shares were issued and placed into trust.
These shares were utilised during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
No shares were held by the ESOTs at the end of the current or prior reporting period.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of its Ordinary Shares in conjunction with HM Treasurys sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company.
The reserve was subsequently increased in the years ended 31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these shares were cancelled.
The capital redemption reserve is not distributable.
Financial statements 156 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 28 Share capital and reserves continued The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB were divided among the CEGB successor companies.
The revaluation reserve comprises the deficit arising from the revaluation of certain intangible assets as part of the step acquisition of Simply Energy on 16 August 2007.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, until the forecast transaction occurs.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign operations refer to note 30d.
Retained earnings represent total income and expense in the current and prior years attributable to equity holders of the parent, less cumulative dividends to shareholders, and other movements relating to, for example, share based payments and transfers from the revaluation reserve.
b Note to the statement of comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Before-tax Tax Before-tax Tax amount expense amount expense benefit restated benefit restated m m m m Net gain loss on cash flow hedges Gains losses arising during the year 61 7 281 34 Less: reclassification adjustments for gains losses included in profit or loss 133 32 11 2 Less: adjustments for amounts transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items 11 205 25 270 36 Exchange gains losses recognised on net investment hedges 58 16 155 3 Exchange losses gains arising on translation of foreign operations Exchange losses gains arising during the year 237 34 946 21 Less: reclassification adjustments relating to foreign operations disposed of during the year 94 331 34 946 21 Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans 13 4 75 21 Movements in other comprehensive income for the year 81 3 446 39 157 29 Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisition of AIM PowerGen Corporation On 21 October 2009 International Power Canada Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the acquisition of the whole of the voting share capital of AIM PowerGen Corporation from Renewable Energy Generation Limited.
On completion, International Power Canada Inc owned 40MW of wind farms in operation, 40MW of wind farms under construction, and a development pipeline.
The purchase price, including contingent consideration and transaction costs, was C$126 million 73 million.
The results of the business have been consolidated as a subsidiary with effect from the date of completion using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value Fair value to carrying adjustments the Group amount m m m Intangible assets 24 1 23 Property, plant and equipment 47 1 48 Finance lease receivables 59 3 56 Trade and other receivables 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 36 36 Trade and other payables 2 2 Loans and bonds 89 4 85 Derivative financial liabilities 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 4 2 2 Net assets acquired 70 3 73 Components of cost of acquisition Consideration paid 68 Directly attributable acquisition costs 2 Contingent consideration 3 Consideration including acquisition costs 73 Satisfied by: Consideration including acquisition costs 73 Contingent consideration 3 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 36 Net cash outflow to the Group 34 In the period from 21 October 2009 to 31 December 2009, International Power Canada Inc contributed 2 million to revenue both including and excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and made no contribution to the Groups profit from operations both including and excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
In the same period post acquisition, International Power Canada Inc made no material contribution to the Groups net operating cash flows or any material tax payments.
It paid 1 million in respect of interest in the period.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of net assets acquired.
These principally represent the fair valuation of finance lease receivables, based on an analysis of estimated future cash flows, and intangible assets, principally relating to development projects and service income.
Deferred tax is recognised for the temporary difference created by the fair value adjustments.
The Group employed a professional firm of valuers to perform the fair valuation exercise.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 January 2009 the business would have contributed 6 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,475 million and 2 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,159 million, both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements the business would have contributed 6 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,670 million and 2 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,401 million.
Due to the proximity of the date of acquisition to the end of the reporting period, the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities are provisional and may be revised.
Financial statements 158 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 29 Acquisitions and disposals continued b Acquisition of T-Power On 16 December 2008, International Power acquired a third of the equity of Tessenderlo Power T-Power, a 420MW CCGT greenfield project in Tessenderlo, Belgium.
The final payments were made for the equity during 2009. c Disposal of International Power Opatovice On 13 November 2009 the Group completed the sale of International Power Opatovice, and its interests in its joint ventures Prask Teplrensk and Energotrans, to the Czecho-Slovak investment firm J&T Group.
A reconciliation of proceeds and profit on disposal to cash inflow is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2009 m Net consideration 593 Net assets disposed of 259 Reclassification adjustment from translation reserve 93 Profit on disposal 427 Net consideration 593 Costs not paid at the end of the reporting period 12 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 42 Cash inflow to the Group 563 159 d Portfolio of North American peaking plants On 29 July 2008, IPA Central LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the purchase of 100% of the voting partnership capital of Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership LLLP, and 100% of the voting share capital of Pleasants Energy LLC, Troy Energy LLC and Calumet Energy Team LLC.
These entities between them own a 1,857MW portfolio of peaking generation facilities, located in the US in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland, and Midwest Independent System Operator power pools.
The purchase price was US$864 million 436 million.
The results of these entities have been consolidated as subsidiaries with effect from 29 July 2008 using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value Fair value carrying adjustments to the amount Group m m m Property, plant and equipment 134 346 480 Inventories 12 5 17 Trade and other receivables 4 4 Derivative financial assets 6 6 Trade and other payables 1 1 Provisions 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 67 67 Net assets acquired 156 280 436 Satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 434 Acquisition costs 2 Net cash outflow to the Group 436 In the period from 29 July 2008 to 31 December 2008 the portfolio of peaking plants contributed 19 million of revenue and 5 million to the Groups profit from operations excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements it contributed to the Group 17 million of revenue and 2 million of profit from operations.
The portfolio of peaking plants also contributed 10 million to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid 7 million in respect of net interest and nil in respect of tax.
These principally represent the fair valuation of property, plant and equipment based on an analysis of depreciated replacement costs and discounted cash flows pertaining to the power plants: the revaluation of fuel stocks to market prices, and the creation of an onerous contract provision relating to out of the money capacity contracts.
Deferred tax is also recognised for the temporary difference created by the fair value adjustments.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, if the acquisition of the portfolio of peaking plants had taken place on 1 January 2008 the portfolio would have contributed 37 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,500 million and 7 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,051 million, both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements the portfolio would have contributed 35 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,839 million and 4 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,157 million.
e Turbogs Produtora Energtica SA On 5 June 2008, International Power acquired an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogs Produtora Energtica SA and an additional 27% shareholding in the associated operations and maintenance company Portugen Energia SA for total cash consideration of E127 million 101 million.
International Power now owns 100% of both Turbogs Produtora Energtica SA and Portugen Energia SA.
f Small European wind farms and solar projects In 2008 International Power acquired the following voting equity share capital for 2 million: in July 2008, 100% of the equity share capital of a business which owns 1.6MW of operational solar panels, located in Spain: in August 2008, 75% of the equity share capital of the PEG 30MW wind farm under construction, located in Italy.
g Uch Power On 19 March 2008, International Power acquired an additional 31% shareholding in the Uch Power project and rights to related service fee income payable by the project company.
Following receipts out of the project and consequential deferred consideration, total cash consideration was US$93 million 47 million.
The acquisition takes the Groups total holding in the Uch Power project to 71%.
International Power accounts for its interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method, due to the joint control of its activities exerted by its shareholders.
Financial statements 160 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 30 Financial instruments a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2009: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount restated restated m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,193 1,193 1,129 1,129 Available-for-sale: 1 Other investments 63 63 47 47 Loans and receivables: 2 Finance lease receivables 1,527 1,586 1,727 1,724 Other long-term receivables 103 103 124 124 3 Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 635 635 731 731 At fair value through profit or loss: 4 Derivative financial assets not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 442 442 507 507 Total financial assets 3,963 4,022 4,265 4,262 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: 5 Trade payables, other payables and accruals current 785 785 832 832 6 Other payables non-current 18 18 44 44 7 Secured bank loans and other loans 4,537 4,537 5,504 5,464 7 Unsecured bank loans and other loans 36 36 201 201 7 Secured bonds 711 709 755 638 7 Convertible bonds 845 907 900 693 7 Loans from minority interests 123 123 87 87 8 Provisions 35 35 48 48 At fair value through profit or loss: 4 Derivative financial liabilities not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 609 609 859 859 Designated cash flow hedge relationships: 4 Derivative financial liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 122 122 207 207 Total financial liabilities 7,821 7,881 9,437 9,073 The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities which have been designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition.
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 1 Other investments are discussed in note 30b which follows.
2 The fair value of finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 6% to 9% 2008: 6% to 8% have been applied.
3 Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income have been stated at their carrying amounts.
4 Fair values of derivative financial instruments are discussed in note 30b which follows.
5 Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, other payables and accruals have been stated at their carrying amounts.
6 The fair value of other payables non-current have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows.
7 The fair values of all bank loans, bonds, convertible bonds and loans from minority interests have been calculated using market prices where available or the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 4% to 8% 2008: 5% to 15% have been applied.
8 Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of the reporting period, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Consequently the carrying amount has been presented as fair value.
Discount rates in the range of 5% to 9% 2008: 5% to 9% have been applied.
161 b Derivatives and fair value hierarchy As explained on pages 18 to 28 of the Business and financial review of the Annual Report, the Groups policy is to hedge various exposures.
Energy price risk: We use commodity contracts to fix the prices we achieve for the electrical output from our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power stations.
In the presentation which follows, we group the financial products and commodity contracts used for this purpose, which are classified as derivatives, under the heading Energy derivatives.
Interest rate risk: Principally we use pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps.
We also use options and forward rate agreements.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk: For structural and transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Other derivatives.
This category also encompasses options over equity.
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses.
The Group already has an equity interest in some of these businesses.
The Group has convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc.
The conversion features in these convertible bonds are accounted for as embedded derivatives refer to note 23.
IFRS 7 requires the classification of fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs The following financial instruments are required to be measured at fair value: Energy derivatives Energy derivatives are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification techniques.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities at future dates.
Generally, the forward price curve is derived from observable prices in an active market over the near term and from valuation techniques beyond the near term.
For example, assumptions which underpin the price curve for power beyond the period where there are observable market prices relate to the price of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Typically, observable market data for forward power prices is available in the US and the UK for two years.
This is also true for Australia but due to uncertainties surrounding the potential impact of the proposed Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme from July 2011, the level of liquidity for periods after the proposed implementation date are lower.
Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Groups in-house modelling.
Non-market observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed illiquid.
A number of modelling techniques exist to generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward power sales is to look at the economics of a new entrant power plant.
Assumptions are also made in relation to the impacts of environmental legislation.
When a new entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new entrants cost and target return.
That is, power prices reflect the new entrant cost level from this particular point.
Energy derivative financial instruments relating to power and fuel are designated either Level 2 or Level 3 depending on the extent to which the lowest level input is significant to the fair measurement in its entirety.
Energy derivative contracts relating to carbon are designated Level 1 because the value of all such derivatives are valued using a price curve which reflects actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
In calculating their fair values, discount rates in the range of 5% to 9% 2008: 6% to 9% have been applied.
Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to both third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves and spot rates in effect at the end of the reporting period.
For interest rate swaps all forward rates are deemed to be from observable markets and are designated Level 2.
In calculating their fair values, discount rates in the range of 1% to 6% 2008: 2% to 5% have been applied.
As at 31 December 2009, the total notional value of interest rate swaps was 2,812 million 2008: 3,350 million.
Other derivatives The fair value of the Groups foreign currency derivative financial instruments is designated Level 1.
As at 31 December 2009, the total notional value of these contracts was 102 million 2008: 63 million and the mark to market was nil 2008: nil.
Equity conversion options have also been measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and through calculations using market rates in effect at the end of the reporting period and accordingly are designated Level 2.
Available-for-sale investments These investments principally comprise minority shareholdings held in privately owned unquoted companies where there is no active market available to value them.
Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, the fair value is recorded at cost.
Financial statements 162 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 30 Financial instruments continued The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the value is observable: 31 December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Derivative financial assets Energy derivatives 382 59 441 Other derivatives 1 1 1 382 59 442 Derivative financial liabilities Energy derivatives 19 140 234 393 Interest rate swaps 137 137 Other derivatives 1 200 201 20 477 234 731 Net derivative financial liabilities 19 95 175 289 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended 31 December 2009.
The following table provides details of the carrying amounts of the Level 3 net derivative financial liabilities and their movements during the year: Energy derivatives m At 1 January 2009 288 Movements recognised in the income statement in: revenue 28 cost of sales 6 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in the income statement in: revenue 144 cost of sales 1 Cash flow 19 Exchange differences 35 At 31 December 2009 175 There were no movements in other comprehensive income during the period relating to Level 3 financial instruments.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 3 during the year ended 31 December 2009.
All gains and losses for the year, included above, relate to energy derivatives held at the end of the reporting period.
Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and sensitivity analysis Energy derivatives Short-term assumptions are typically based on existing or substantively enacted legislation, whilst the long-term assumptions are typically based on the Groups view as to market developments.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of the forward price curve, which could be significant, for example, increases in the assumed cost of construction or the assumed long-term cost of oil in the determination of new entrant pricing.
The forward price curves are underpinned by many assumptions, and are only estimates of future prices.
Therefore they possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence variations in long-term price assumptions have a limited impact on our derivative valuations.
We have one long-term derivative contract for power, which was acquired with the Loy Yang B plant in Australia.
The contract is open until 2016 and represents a significant proportion of the total Level 3 derivative financial liability carrying amount.
A 10% change in the assumed construction costs, applied in the determination of new entrant pricing, would affect the value of this derivative by 11 million.
163 The carrying amount of derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and whether these derivatives are designated in a formal hedging relationship is analysed as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities restated m m m m Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 122 207 Not designated in a qualifying hedge relationship Energy derivatives 441 393 475 747 Interest rate swaps 15 19 Other derivatives 1 201 32 93 442 609 507 859 442 731 507 1,066 Analysed as: Current 442 429 477 544 Non-current 302 30 522 442 731 507 1,066 On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchases of fuel.
For existing cash flow hedges at that time, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses after the date of fide-designation as cash flow hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The following table shows the carrying amounts of assets liabilities, net gains and losses, cash flows and other movements relating to the Groups derivative financial instruments and where the movements in the income statement are recorded.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives restated restated m m m m m m m m At 1 January 272 226 61 559 526 6 354 874 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in: revenue 195 195 339 339 cost of sales 116 116 167 167 interest 2 109 107 23 389 366 Other movements in the income statement 2 2 3 3 Movement in other comprehensive income 17 71 88 71 174 103 Cash flow 34 34 37 96 59 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 6 6 Disposal of subsidiary 4 4 Reclassifications 30 30 Exchange differences 44 17 27 29 35 64 At 31 December 48 137 200 289 272 226 61 559 Other movements in the income statement comprise mark to market movements on proprietary trading activities, i. e. on non-asset backed trades, and the amortisation of derivatives acquired with a fair value other than zero.
Mark to market movements on asset backed hedges are included within specific IAS 39 mark to market movements refer to note 1f.
Financial statements 164 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 30 Financial instruments continued c Cash flow hedging reserve movements The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, including where gains and losses have been recognised in the income statement.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total derivatives swaps derivatives swaps m m m m m m At 1 January 12 364 376 56 28 84 Gains losses recognised in the hedging reserve during the year 7 76 69 44 274 230 Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within the income statement during the year due to settlement of contracts, recognised in: Group revenue 29 29 7 7 Share of joint ventures and associates 24 24 9 9 Net finance costs 80 80 5 5 Tax 8 24 32 2 4 2 Minority interests 2 8 10 1 2 1 Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged item 11 11 Disposal of subsidiary 3 3 Exchange differences 26 26 4 72 76 At 31 December 176 176 12 364 376 The cash flow hedging reserve balance and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total derivatives swaps derivatives swaps m m m m m m Cash flows expected in: Less than 12 months 79 79 10 83 93 12 years 46 46 2 72 74 25 years 46 46 94 94 More than 5 years 5 5 115 115 Unrecognised losses at 31 December 176 176 12 364 376 The amounts shown in the preceding table are expected to affect profit or loss in the same period as the cash flows.
d Hedge of a net investment An economic net investment exposure arises from foreign currency movements when the functional currency of a subsidiary differs from the parents.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting, foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of a foreign operation would be taken to reserves, whilst those on the loan would be recognised in the income statement.
This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation.
When net investment hedging is applied, this mismatch is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge the net investments in certain foreign operations within its portfolio.
As the hedging instruments are foreign currency borrowings rather than derivatives, no fair values for these instruments are included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed in the statement of financial position.
Gains and losses recognised in the translation reserve for hedges of net investments are shown in notes 23 and 28.
165 e Capital management, risk identification and risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to ensure that all entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns, while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
We regularly review and maintain or adjust the capital structure as appropriate in order to achieve these objectives and this is consistent with the management of capital for previous periods.
The Group has various borrowings and available facilities that contain certain external capital requirements covenants that are considered normal for these types of arrangements.
At corporate level we remain comfortably within all the covenants in relation to the US$780 million revolving credit facility.
A limited number of subsidiary companies have received waivers from the relevant lenders to ensure compliance with specific technical covenants.
The nature of our business model is to regularly invest in growth projects, which are funded via internal cash flow, debt equity raising or disposals and can give rise to changes to the Groups capital structure.
As an example, in November 2009 the disposal of our Czech business resulted in a net cash inflow to the Group of 563 million.
Identification of total funding and phasing is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the statement of financial position.
Note 28 provides details on equity, note 23 on loans and bonds and note 30j on borrowing facilities.
Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of counterparties and maturities.
Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large transaction may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
It has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent with the Groups strategy and objectives.
Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
The Group owns power plants in various locations around the world including merchant markets in the US, Australia and Europe.
Plant ownership in the merchant markets expose the Group to highly volatile and unpredictable commodity prices including those relating to power and gas and trading and risk management teams exist in each region to manage the exposure by trading a range of products including physical and financial forwards and futures.
A Global Commodities Risk Committee together with the regional risk management teams are responsible for ensuring an adequate risk framework is in place in each region.
Local risk committees operate in each region and they are responsible for ensuring that the risk framework is applied and that they manage their respective positions in compliance with these Board approved limits.
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management and development of the Groups business whilst managing its market risks and credit risks.
The Groups treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions.
Group treasury acts within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board.
Project development activities can, on occasion, require credit support in the normal course of business.
This is provided by established funding facilities or via additional bilateral facilities with related project banks.
At the individual business level we finance our projects with non-recourse debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse events at the project level, limiting our collateral exposure to a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
Credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties is managed within clearly defined limits, policies and procedures.
Financial counterparty risk is restricted to arrangements with relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with investment grade ratings.
In addition to credit assessments from rating agencies, the Group utilises local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial reviews to monitor counterparty credit risk and, if considered necessary, take proactive measures to reduce credit exposure in specific situations.
All credit exposures are monitored daily by local regional management and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
f Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in commodity prices in the merchant markets in which it operates, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates.
A significant number of the Groups projects operate without power purchase agreements and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel purchased.
In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK within our Europe region, North America, and Australia, operate on a merchant basis.
i Energy trading and market risk The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales purchases of electricity and fuel by using derivatives to optimise the return achieved from these assets.
The Group uses commodity derivative financial instruments to convert floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to fixed prices.
This lessens the Groups vulnerability to movements in prices for the electricity it generates and for the fuel it consumes in its power plants.
Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
The Groups trading operations are carried out subject to global and local policies and procedures.
A similar structure is in place in each region covering monetary, volumetric and term limits.
Metrics and limits applied to the trading books include Value-at-Risk VaR, stop loss, credit, fuel mismatch, term, volume, approved traders and approved products.
Position reports are produced on a regular basis for both the trading and plant books.
As the Group no longer applies cash flow hedge accounting to its power and fuel derivative contracts, all fair value gains and losses are recorded in the income statement.
The Groups coal purchase contracts are typically treated as own use because they are both entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the Groups electricity production requirements and they are not net settled.
Financial statements 166 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 30 Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis As stated earlier, when hedging the output of our generation assets it is our policy to both forward sell the power and forward buy the corresponding fuel contemporaneously in order to lock in the spread.
The spread is the difference between the cost of fuel to generate a unit of electricity and the price at which that unit of electricity is sold.
Spreads are usually expressed in terms of price per MWh.
When gas is used as fuel the difference is called spark spread and when coal is used as the fuel it is called dark spread.
From a management perspective, once the spread relating to the future output from a generation asset is forward contracted, the asset is considered hedged.
To the extent that future output has not been forward contracted in this manner it is considered unhedged.
Management review on an ongoing basis the extent to which generation output is unhedged.
However, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of changes in market prices as a result of entering into financial instruments including derivatives.
Specifically, this sensitivity shows the impact on the Groups results arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts which are entered into to hedge the future output of our generation assets following a change in forward market prices.
The table below shows the impact on equity and profits of a 20% increase in the forward curves for both electricity sales prices and gas purchase prices as if they had occurred on 31 December 2009.
This could be viewed as the opportunity cost of our forward contracting if prices had changed in this manner.
The movement of forward price curves by 20% is believed to be a reasonable approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year.
In some years markets will be less volatile and in other years they may be more volatile.
No sensitivity is applied to coal purchase prices given that such contracts are typically treated as own use.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of these sensitivities: At 31 December 2009, the Group has no energy-related cash flow hedges and therefore all fair value gains and losses would be recorded in the income statement: Commodity contracts that qualify for own use treatment continue to do so, and thus this sensitivity has no impact for these contracts.
These typically include coal purchase contracts.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests, and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact Impact on Impact profit for on total profit for on total the year ended equity at the year ended equity at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m 20% increase in forward price curves for electricity 220 234 259 283 20% increase in forward price curves for gas 29 27 53 48 Because we hedge the spark spread, i. e. the sales price of electricity and the cost of gas contemporaneously, there is little net impact on the fair value of our derivative contracts to changes in the forward price curves to sell electricity and to purchase gas.
However, for the dark spread, where the cost of coal is contracted in advance but is accounted for as own use, only the electricity sales contracts are exposed to fair value gains and losses arising from changes in the forward curves because these are considered commodity derivative financial instruments.
This mismatch in accounting treatment predominantly gives rise to the significant net impact on profit and equity arising from increases in forward prices for electricity.
Therefore, from an accounting perspective, forward contracting of dark spread at coal plants potentially gives rise to more volatility in earnings.
However, to the extent that fair value gains and losses are recorded in any period ultimately they will reverse by the time of delivery.
It should be noted that changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are entered into for economic hedging purposes refer to basis of preparation in note 1f, are recorded in the middle column in the Groups income statement and therefore the fair value gains and losses have no impact on underlying business performance.
To the extent that our power plants are not already contracted, and spreads increase, it is likely that the future profitability of our coal plants would also improve, because they would contract into the higher dark spreads.
It also means that if plants are unavailable at the point in time at which power should be delivered under the contract, the mark to market position represents the anticipated net cost of purchasing power and selling fuel in the markets to fulfil the contractual obligations and in that instance the unrealised fair value gains and losses would become realised.
167 ii Interest rate risk Variability in interest payments can introduce volatility into project returns and corporate funding costs.
We mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements.
A limited number of our PPAs also have interest rate pass through mechanisms.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board.
The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for up to 75% of its debt portfolio over the medium to long-term.
At individual project company level, it is usually a condition of the non-recourse debt funding that project companies maintain a certain minimum level of fixed rate debt, typically 70%.
This complements the Groups policy.
The overall level of the Groups fixed rate debt is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
A forward rate agreement is a contract in which one party pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate equal to a reference rate specified at the time of entering into the contract.
The payments are calculated over a notional amount over a certain period with the differential being settled at the termination date.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange pre-determined interest payments, based on a notional principal amount, over an agreed period of time.
At 31 December 2009, including the impact of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps, 4,533 million or 73% 2008: 5,467 million or 73% of total debt had fixed interest rates.
In 2009 the weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt, taking into account the effect of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps on floating rate debt, was 7% 2008: 7%.
The effect of the Groups interest rate swaps effectively replaced 922 million 2008: 838 million of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, 948 million 2008: 1,337 million of floating rate US dollar borrowings, 300 million 2008: 334 million of floating rate sterling borrowings and 642 million 2008: 733 million of floating rate euro borrowings with fixed rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2008 108 million of floating rate Czech koruna borrowings were also effectively replaced with fixed rate borrowings.
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months by reference to official market rates e. g. LIBOR.
When we use project finance in companies with power purchase agreements, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the power purchase agreement.
Sensitivity analysis The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is considered highly probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 100 basis point parallel increase in the interest rate yield curve as if it had occurred on 31 December 2009.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The impact of this sensitivity has only been recorded for changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, which have their fair value gains and losses recorded within the financial statements as the Group does not designate any other financial asset at fair value through profit or loss and these are the only significant financial instruments whose carrying amounts change as a result of changes in interest rates.
All other financial instruments are carried at amortised cost and hence no adjustment has been applied: No impact is recorded from changes in interest rates on employee benefits including pensions, provisions and other financial assets and liabilities: All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting: Fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December are reflected solely in the income statement.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact Impact on Impact profit for on total profit for on total the year ended equity at the year ended equity at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Increase in yield curve by 100 basis point parallel shift 3 54 2 82 A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on profitability of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on unhedged interest-bearing loans and bonds, i. e. those which are subject to a floating rate of interest, i. e. where there is no receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swap, and on cash balances on which variable rates of interest are earned.
The calculation is performed as follows.
The year end cash balance is deducted from the year end unhedged floating rate loans and bonds.
The net borrowing is multiplied by 1%.
At 31 December 2009 the result of this second sensitivity equated to 2 million before tax 2008: 5 million.
Financial statements 168 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 30 Financial instruments continued iii Foreign currency risk International Power operates worldwide which exposes it to foreign currency exchange risks.
These relate to translation, transaction and economic risks.
Treasury policy is to hedge a reasonable proportion of the Groups translation exposures by borrowing in the same currency as the underlying investment.
Any residual translation exposure will result in fluctuating sterling profits and asset and liability movements in the statement of financial position which are not related to underlying business performance.
In countries with historically weak currencies we aim to have PPA tariffs denominated in a major international currency.
This protects future returns from large and rapid devaluations.
Group translation exposure is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
For the purposes of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income statement results of the Groups foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned.
The net assets of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Currency translation exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved, other than borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same currency as the underlying investment.
The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way.
It is not our policy to hedge currency translation through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
The Group utilises these exposures, where possible, to hedge existing transaction exposures on sales and purchases through matching.
In line with Group policy any remaining transaction exposures are hedged as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments.
Transaction exposure also arises on the remittance of dividends or surplus funds from overseas.
All external currency instruments used to manage transaction exposure are transacted by Group treasury or under the guidance of Group treasury.
Identification of potential transaction exposures is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast by local currency which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
As noted in 30b, to hedge our foreign exchange risks for transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use both non-derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency borrowings, and derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
When we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposures to foreign currency risk, the Group may choose to account for these as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges if they meet the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
Sensitivity analysis The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currencies of International Power plc or of its subsidiaries.
It shows the impact on the Groups consolidated income statement by changing the year end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in sterling in subsidiaries with non-sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in the year end exchange rate is determined.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies in International Power plc or its subsidiaries with sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in year end exchange rate is determined.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The results of foreign exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans, that are treated as net investment hedges, are not recognised within the impact on the Group income statement, as these foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded within other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve: The exposure on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into the sterling presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements are not included in the sensitivity analysis.
The results are presented before tax and minority interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact on profit for profit for the year ended the year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 restated m m 10% strengthening of sterling 59 28 10% weakening of sterling 66 32 g Credit risk We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according to the terms of the contract or instrument.
The Groups policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
Energy trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures in each of our key regions.
Counterparty exposure via customer power purchase agreements agreements to sell power is monitored and managed by the local asset team with assistance from Group treasury where appropriate.
The impact of an individual PPA default is minimised by the geographical diversity and large number of projects in which the Group is involved.
In addition, the non-recourse nature of the funding arrangements, which limits our exposure to our equity commitment in a project, also provides limited credit exposure to the Group.
For the majority of the Groups commodity trading arrangements we have master netting agreements which establish legally enforceable rights of set-off that reduce the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default.
Where possible, the Group will also enter into ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements to mitigate its credit exposure to financial instruments.
In the normal course of business there may be occasions when we have a significant concentration of credit risk with one financial counterparty.
This can arise due to the counterpartys role as transaction bank including settlement risk for major transactions, debt service account bank and cash collateralised facility bank or a combination there of.
169 Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated basis for trading and financial counterparties, with the active and close involvement of the global risk manager.
Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with strong investment grade credit ratings.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, International Power selects counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type and duration of the instrument involved.
A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade.
For those energy market transactions with counterparties below investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried against the trading risk.
Exposures within this band are restricted and closely monitored within narrow limits.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by counterparty.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,193 1,129 Available-for-sale financial assets 63 47 2 3 Loans and receivables refer to note 30a 2,265 2,582 4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss derivative financial assets 442 507 Total financial assets 3,963 4,265 1 The majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment grade banks or financial institutions.
2 Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
3 A significant proportion of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
4 T he Group holds collateral of 287 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 179 million as security for the above derivative financial assets.
Collateral held as security includes parent company guarantees of appropriate credit worthiness, letters of credit issued by investment grade banks and cash margining as set out in the following table: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Parent company guarantee 186 116 Letters of credit 1 Cash margining 101 62 287 179 The Group also holds additional collateral from counterparties, which only becomes enforceable if existing exposures increase or additional trading with that counterparty is contracted.
This additional undrawn collateral totals 221 million at 31 December 2009 2008: 209 million and is in the form of letters of credit and parent company guarantees.
During 2009 and 2008 we have not needed to take possession of collateral available to us in order to settle any outstanding debts owed to us.
If the Group was to take possession of collateral or to call on other credit enhancements e. g. guarantees, and the assets held as security were not readily convertible into cash, we would regularly update our estimates of value and develop a realistic plan for monetisation.
We would defend rigorously our right to recoup any outstanding amounts from arrangements which ultimately do not fully settle a liability.
A limited number of counterparties have experienced a deterioration in their credit quality.
Where appropriate, we have reduced trading limits or ceased additional trading with such entities.
Financial liquidity in all international markets continues to impact financial volatility and credit quality of counterparties.
We utilise local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial reviews to identify significant changes to the financial profile of our counterparties.
As at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 there were no significant financial guarantees or third party obligations that increase the credit risk of the Groups financial assets.
h Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
Reporting entities are responsible for managing their own liquidity.
The Groups treasury function is responsible for managing corporate liquidity.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal conditions.
It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements for a rolling five year period, which is reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
Financial statements 170 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 30 Financial instruments continued i Contractual cash flows The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2009 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 23 858 594 3,230 3,538 8,220 63 1,905 6,252 Other financial liabilities 801 19 1 88 909 71 838 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 176 41 142 90 449 56 393 Interest rate swaps 75 35 29 2 141 4 137 Other derivatives 1 1 200 201 Total financial liabilities 1,911 689 3,402 3,718 9,720 137 2,036 7,821 31 December 2008 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons restated items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 23 834 1,547 3,467 4,223 10,071 87 2,537 7,447 Other financial liabilities 854 28 22 43 947 23 924 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 359 157 218 192 926 179 747 Interest rate swaps 81 64 61 29 235 9 226 Other derivatives 2 2 91 93 Total financial liabilities 2,130 1,796 3,768 4,487 12,181 4 2,748 9,437 The net payments relating to interest rate swaps have been calculated based on the yield curves as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
Net payments under interest rate swaps represent the projected net settlement amounts under the swaps.
The variable interest payments, of the loans to which the swaps relate, are included in the maturity of borrowings table in note 23 and included in loans and bonds above.
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted at the end of the financial year.
Refer to note 32 for a breakdown of the Groups commitments and to note 33 for a summary of the Groups bonds and guarantees.
An assessment of the Groups current liquidity position is given in the Business and financial review section of the Annual Report on pages 58 to 59.
The disclosure of derivatives in the consolidated statement of financial position has been made in line with managements view of the Groups operating cycle.
This has the effect of presenting certain energy derivative cash flows net of discounting, shown above as due after more than one year, to current liabilities in the statement of financial position.
171 j Borrowing facilities The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2009 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met amount to 1,162 million 2008: 1,054 million.
This table excludes loan facilities which have been fully drawn and 189 million of letters of credit in issue at 31 December 2009 2008: 212 million.
Committed facilities 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Currency Expiry Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m Corporate: 1 Corporate revolving credit facility USD October 2012 483 483 483 591 482 482 2 IPM UK Power credit support facility GBP June 2012 300 235 235 300 219 219 3 Corporate letter of credit facilities Various Various 154 139 139 Subsidiaries: Rugeley Power working capital and credit support facility GBP July 2014 195 101 101 195 92 92 Rugeley Power FGD construction facility GBP July 2014 132 145 13 13 4 IPA Central revolving and letter of credit facility USD July 2015 67 46 46 75 28 28 IPA Trading, LLC revolving and letter 4 of credit facility USD October 2010 50 45 45 56 39 39 International Power Opatovice revolving 5 credit facility CZK May 2012 36 7 7 ANP Funding 1 working capital and letter 6 of credit facility USD July 2010 47 23 23 Other subsidiary facilities in various currencies Various Various 219 113 113 242 151 151 1,600 1,162 1,162 1,687 1,054 1,054 1 There are no drawings on the corporate revolving credit facility 2008: 109 million of letters of credit issued.
2 The IPM UK Power facilities include a 200 million 2008: 200 million letter of credit and parent company guarantee facility and 100 million 2008: 100 million working capital facility, both from Mitsui & Co, Ltd. 3 C orporate letter of credit facilities include an undrawn US$200 million cash collateral facility and a 30 million bilateral letter of credit facility from which 15 million was issued at 31 December 2009.
4 T he IPA Central and IPA Trading facilities include a working capital facility with capacity to issue letters of credit.
At 31 December 2009 25 million of letters of credit 2008: 53 million and 1 million of cash 2008: 11 million had been drawn from these facilities.
5 T he International Power Opatovice revolving credit facility was novated to the new owners following the disposal on 13 November 2009.
6 T he ANP Funding facilities were repaid and cancelled on 3 December 2009.
Included in cash and cash equivalents are 43 million 2008: 154 million of margin deposits placed with trading counter-parties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities.
At 31 December 2009, letter of credit facilities of 255 million 2008: 727 million were available to support these trading activities and margin deposit requirements and is included in the total undrawn and available facilities above refer to note 22.
Uncommitted facilities Uncommitted facilities include bank borrowing and letter of credit facilities which are normally reaffirmed by banks annually, although theoretically they may be withdrawn at any time.
These facilities include the following: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m Corporate: Corporate borrowing and overdraft facilities 57 57 57 61 61 61 Corporate letter of credit facilities 129 73 73 23 23 23 Subsidiaries: Subsidiary working capital and letter of credit facilities 18 16 15 43 40 40 204 146 145 127 124 124 Uncommitted facilities of 204 million 2008: 127 million include an undrawn and available cash element of 57 million 2008: 61 million.
Also included are 88 million 2008: 63 million of available credit lines for the purposes of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in the normal course of business.
Financial statements 172 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 31 Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, fall due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Not later than one year 13 14 Later than one year and not later than five years 43 49 Later than five years 78 87 Total outstanding commitments 134 150 Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment.
These payment commitments are offset by future minimum receipts under non-cancellable operating subleases of nil 2008: 1 million.
The Group leases office space under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement which expires in 2016.
The lease agreement is renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
The Group also leases land under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between 20 and 70 years, and the majority of the lease agreements are renewable at maturity at market rate.
The Group as lessor International Powers business is the generation of electricity.
The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain operating leases.
The Group has contracted to receive from offtakers the following minimum lease payments: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Not later than one year 77 77 Later than one year and not later than five years 101 172 Later than five years 59 85 Total minimum lease payments 237 334 Operating lease income earned from these arrangements during the year amounted to 78 million 2008: 78 million.
32 Commitments Fuel purchase and transportation commitments At 31 December 2009, the Group had commitments for the purchase of fuel and transportation services, some of which have minimum purchase undertakings, to which the own use treatment is applied under IAS 39, i. e. accounted for on an accruals basis.
Based on contract provisions, which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are estimated to aggregate to 566 million 2008: 672 million expiring within one year, 1,817 million 2008: 1,965 million expiring between one and five years and 416 million 2008: 763 million expiring after more than five years.
The fair value of contractual commitments for fuel and transport derivative contracts, which are not treated as own use, are accounted for as derivative contracts.
Capital commitments Capital commitments, contracted but not provided as at 31 December 2009 amount to 197 million 2008: 286 million.
173 33 Contingent liabilities a Legal proceedings The Company is aware of claims and potential claims, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group, by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB, and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
b Taxation The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c Collateral, bonds and guarantees The Group has pledged financial assets with carrying amounts totalling 1,768 million as collateral as at 31 December 2009 2008: 1,994 million.
These comprise finance lease receivables, cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables.
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 551 million 2008: 655 million.
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 282 million 2008: 649 million.
d Joint ventures and associates Bonds and guarantees The Groups joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees.
The Groups share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to 82 million 2008: 103 million.
These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate.
Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in c above.
34 Related party transactions a Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate.
Further details of Directors remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 103 to 107.
There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc.
No member of key management had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 7 6 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 3 2 Total employee benefit costs of key management personnel 11 9 b Operations and maintenance contracts In the normal course of business the Group has contracted to provide power station operation and maintenance services to joint ventures and associates.
During the year the Group derived income of 85 million 2008: 62 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 7 million 2008: 6 million in relation to these contracts.
c Retail supply contracts In the normal course of business the Group has contracted to provide power and gas to joint ventures and associates involved in retail supply.
During the year the Group derived income of 82 million 2008: 67 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 1 million 2008: 1 million in relation to these contracts.
d Transportation contracts In the normal course of business the Group has contracts in place in relation to fuel transportation with one of its jointly controlled entities.
During the year the Group incurred costs of 10 million 2008: 9 million in relation to these contracts.
e Emissions certificates In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted to provide emission certificates to one of its associates.
During the year the Group derived revenue of 12 million 2008: 34 million from these arrangements.
Financial statements 174 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 35 Subsidiaries The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless otherwise stated.
Name and nature of business Country of Type of share Group incorporation and effective registration shareholding North America International Power Canada Inc, power generation Canada Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership, LLLP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Calumet Energy Team, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Coleto Creek Power LP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Hays Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Milford Power Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Pleasants Energy, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Troy Energy, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Europe First Hydro Company power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% First Hydro Finance plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Indian Queens Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% IPM Energy Trading Limited energy trading England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Rugeley Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% 1 Deeside Power Limited power generation Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 1 IP Maestrale Investments Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 100% 1 IPM Portfolio Trading Limited energy trading Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% Levanto Structured Energy Lux S.. r. l. investment holding company Luxembourg Ordinary Shares 100% 2 International Power Levanto Holdings BV investment holding company Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100% Turbogs Produtora Enrgetica S. A. power generation Portugal Ordinary Shares 100% Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 64% Ibrica fide Enrgas SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 70% Middle East Al Kamil Power Company SAOG power generation Oman Ordinary Shares 65% Tihama Power Generation Company Limited power generation Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60% Australia Canunda Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% Gippsland Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 70% Hazelwood Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 92% Latrobe Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 70% 3 Perth Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 49% Simply Energy retail supplier Australia Partners Capital 100% Synergen Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% 4 Pelican Point Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% Asia Thai National Power Company Limited power generation Thailand Ordinary Shares 100% Corporate 3 IPM Eagle LLP investment holding company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% Normanglade 4 LLP financing company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% 1 IPM UK Power Holdings Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 5 IPR Insurance Company Limited insurance captive Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Jersey Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Finance Jersey II Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Finance Jersey III Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below.
The year end for all subsidiaries listed is 31 December.
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices.
2 International Power consolidates the results, assets and liabilities of Breeze Two Energy as required under Adopted IFRSs refer to note 37a.
3 Perth Power Partnership is a 70% owned subsidiary of IPM Eagle LLP, a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc.
5 Held directly by International Power plc.
175 36 Joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Name and nature of business Country of Accounting Type of share Group incorporation and period end effective operation shareholding Joint ventures North America 1 EcoElctrica LP power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners Capital 35% Oyster Creek Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners Capital 50% Europe T-Power N. V. power generation Belgium 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Elecgas S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Australia South East Australia Gas Pty Limited gas pipeline Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33% Asia 2 Uch Power Pvt Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 71% Associates Europe Derwent Cogeneration Limited power generation England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23% Opus Energy Limited retail supplier England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30% ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34% Carbopego Abastecimento fide Combustiveis, S. A. fuel supplier Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Pegop Energia Electrica, S. A. power station operations Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Tejo Energia Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A. S. power generation Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Middle East Hidd Power Company BSC c power generation and desalination Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Q Power QSC power generation and desalination Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Fujairah Asia Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Asia PT Paiton Energy Company power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 41% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36% 3 The Hub Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17% All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
2 International Power accounts for its interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method due to the joint control of its activities exerted by its shareholders.
3 I nternational Power continues to equity account for HUBCO, despite its shareholding being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert significant influence over the entity.
At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
Financial statements 176 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 37 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The Groups accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b which follows.
a Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants.
In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchase of fuel.
For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses, after the date of fide-designation as cash flow hedges, are recorded in the income statement.
Revenue recognition When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electrical output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract.
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or operating lease.
This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside.
For finance leases it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between minimum lease payments and fees for service provision.
Where PPAs extend over more than one accounting period, service income is recognised in each accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance under the contract in each period.
This treatment requires an assessment of fair value which can be subjective.
Evaluation of levels of control and influence In order to consolidate a subsidiary the parent must control it.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Determining whether control exists, and whether this is accompanied by the objective of obtaining benefits, is a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment.
The assessment process is cognisant of the requirement to account for transactions and events in accordance with their substance and economic reality, and not merely their legal form.
In accordance with the requirements of SIC Interpretation 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, a special purpose entity SPE is consolidated when the substance of the relationship between an entity and the SPE indicates that the SPE is controlled by that entity.
In the context of an SPE, control may exist even in cases where an entity owns little or none of the SPEs equity.
The application of the control concept requires, in each case, judgement in the context of all relevant factors.
SIC 12 provides examples of circumstances that may indicate a relationship in which an entity controls an SPE and consequently should consolidate the SPE.
These include: the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of the entity according to its specific business needs so that the entity obtains benefits from the SPEs operation: the entity has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE, in substance, the entity has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of the SPE: or in substance, the entity retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
Breeze Two Energy GmbH & Co. KG Breeze II owns a large proportion of the Levanto wind farm portfolio, primarily the wind farms in Germany.
Breeze II is managed by the General Partner and the appointment and removal, and the supervision of the activities of the General Partners Managing Director, are determined by an Advisory Board.
We treat Breeze II as a subsidiary in the financial statements and consolidate its results, although Breeze II is owned by a Trust.
Our assessment is that Breeze II is a subsidiary, based on circumstances outlined in SIC 12 that indicate a relationship in which the Group controls an SPE and consequently should consolidate the SPE.
These circumstances include the following: we currently own all of the subordinated debt of the business in the form of secured C bonds, we possess the rights to obtain the remaining subordinated cash flows and the equity of the business following the repayment of the more senior secured A and B bonds, we control the Advisory Board which has powers to appoint the Managing Director of the General Partner, and we have a contract directly with Breeze II to advise the Managing Director on its financial and operating policies and to undertake all day-to-day technical, administration and financial activities of the business.
The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements.
At associates and joint ventures we achieve influence or joint control through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as investments available-for-sale.
These investments available-for-sale are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where observable market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, equity instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate.
This treatment is applied to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17%, but where we also have the right, which we exercise, to appoint a significant proportion of Directors on the Board refer to note 36.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use the equity method of accounting.
Sometimes we may apply the equity method to a joint venture where we do not possess an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual arrangement establishes joint control.
This treatment is applied to our interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited of which, at 31 December 2009, we owned 71%, as another partner has the right of veto over certain significant decisions refer to note 36.
177 Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: i disposals of interests in businesses: ii discontinued operations: iii impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement.
Exceptional items are also set out in note 8.
Taxation The tax expense recorded in the income statement is dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the end of the reporting period, unless new tax rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated useful lives.
The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a systematic basis to the current carrying amount.
It is Group policy to depreciate combined cycle gas turbine plant over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value.
Coal plants, hydro plants and wind farms are considered on an individual basis.
Our depreciation lives are disclosed in the accounting polices refer to note 1l.
Impairment analysis Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets and the Groups power plant and other property, plant and equipment.
As a minimum, the recoverability of goodwill is tested on an annual basis.
This includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term.
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the current carrying amount of the asset with the present value of the expected future cash flows of the comparable cash generating unit and its fair value less costs to sell.
The reviews are generally based on pre-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
We benchmark the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis.
At the end of the reporting period, consideration is also given as to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed.
The results of the testing in relation to goodwill are presented in note 12.
The Australian federal government has proposed introducing a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme CPRS.
The introduction of the CPRS has the potential to significantly impact the assumptions used to determine the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the Groups property, plant and equipment for the purpose of value-in-use calculations in impairment testing.
The Group has not incorporated the impact of CPRS into its assumptions at 31 December 2009 as insufficient market information exists.
Uncertainties pertain to: the level of emissions the Group is expected to emit in Australia: abatement opportunities: the price of emission permits: the number of permits required to be purchased: the ability to pass on the cost of the permits: and the level of government assistance.
Due to the preceding factors listed, it is considered impracticable to assess CPRS implications on the business at this time.
As described in note 8, the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms has been impaired by 70 million.
Fair values of energy derivatives The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts in the statement of financial position at fair value unless they qualify for own use treatment.
Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the income statement unless the required hedge accounting criteria are met which allows the movement in fair value to be recorded within other comprehensive income and accumulated within equity.
The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived from observable prices in an active market over the near-term.
Assumptions which underpin the price curve beyond the period where there are observable market prices relate to the prices of commodities such as oil and carbon, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Uncertainties relating to the terms of the CPRS in Australia also have an impact on the determination of the shape of forward price curves for electricity in this region.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of forward price curves.
The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
As disclosed in note 30i 232 million of energy derivative contract cash flows are due to be settled in periods after more than two years after the end of the reporting period.
This principally comprises a Level 3 contract in Australia.
Refer to note 30b for the results of a sensitivity analysis pertaining to a key assumption used during the valuation.
Given that approximately half of energy derivative cash flows are due to settle within two years of the end of the reporting period, a change in discount rates has a small impact on fair values reported.
Financial statements 178 International Power Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 37 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Fair values on acquisition The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities in to the consolidated statement of financial position on the date of acquisition at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement.
Fair values on our major acquisitions are disclosed in note 29.
In determining the fair values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as part of the acquisition of the AIM PowerGen Corporation wind portfolio we have used the services of a professional firm of valuers.
Recoverability of trade and other receivables Management assesses the recoverability of its trade and other receivables on a periodic basis.
Payment delays by the offtaker the Water and Power Development Authority in Pakistan have occurred at the Groups joint ventures and associates during 2009.
The Group has not made a provision against overdue amounts at 31 December 2009 as management consider that all amounts will be fully recovered from the offtaker.
Provisions Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions about such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs.
For example, the pensions liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, expected mortality and future increases in pension payments.
We review these assumptions regularly, and for pensions annually.
However, a change in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
In relation to pensions liabilities, the result of a sensitivity analysis relating to actuarial assumptions is included in note 7.
38 Events after the reporting period On 27 January 2010, Hazelwood Power Partnership, which owns the 1,675MW coal-fired Hazelwood power station located in Victoria, Australia completed the restructuring of its non-recourse debt of A$742 million 415 million.
The restructured facility has a maturity date of 30 June 2012.
