Directors report General information and disclosures allot at any time save in respect of employee share Group results and dividends schemes because an allotment authority continues to be Financial reporting required under the 2006 Act.
The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It uses During the year, 351,407 shares were issued fully paid to the Chairmans statement and the detailed reviews of the participants in the Performance Share Plan on the vesting of performance and financial position of the Companys awards granted in June 2006.
The percentages of shares issued operations included in the Directors report to assist with non-pre-emptively in 2009 and in the period 2007 to 2009 this.
The directors responsibility for the preparation of the pursuant to employee share schemes calculated by financial statements and notes and the statement by the reference to the Companys closing issued share capital at auditors about their reporting responsibilities are described 31 December 2009, were 0.28 per cent and 1.30 per cent on pages 62 and 63, respectively, of this Annual report and respectively.
As a result of the foregoing allotments, the Companys issued The Groups Consolidated income statement set out on share capital at the end of the year stood at 125,367,779 page 64 shows an increase of 11.6 per cent in Group profit 2008: 125,016,372 ordinary shares of 10p each before taxation to 89.2 million 2008: 79.9 million.
The detailed results of the Group are given in the financial statements on pages 64 to 98 and further comments on The issued share capital at the date of this report stands at divisional results are given in the Operational review 125,367,779 ordinary shares of 10p each 12,536,777.90. on pages 9 to 17.
There have been no post balance sheet events that require disclosure or adjustment in the Details of outstanding awards and options over shares in the financial statements.
Company as at 31 December 2009 are set out in notes 27 and 29 to the financial statements on pages 91 and 92 An interim dividend of 5.5p per 10p ordinary share 2008: respectively.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 12.0p per 10p ordinary share, making a The Company may by ordinary resolution: total distribution for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 17.5p per 10p ordinary share 2008: 17.0p.
Subject to a sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of a approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting smaller nominal amount than its existing shares: or AGM on 10 May 2010, the final dividend will be paid on 8 June 2010 to shareholders appearing on the register at the b consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into close of business on 23 April 2010.
The shares will be quoted shares of a larger nominal amount than its existing shares ex-dividend on 21 April 2010. provided that in any sub-division, consolidation or division of The Companys dividend reinvestment plan will continue to shares, the proportion between the amount paid and the be available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the amount if any unpaid on each resulting share shall be the plan are set out in the Shareholder information section on same as it was in the case of the share from which that share page 116. is derived.
No dividends were waived during the year 2008: 1,646.
Issue of shares Section 551 of the 2006 Act provides that the directors may Share capital not allot shares unless empowered to do so by the General shareholders.
A resolution giving such authority was passed The Companys authorised and issued share capital as at at the AGM held on 12 May 2009.
The AGM authorities were 31 December 2009 comprised a single class of ordinary used in 2009 only in relation to the issue of shares pursuant shares.
All shares rank equally and are fully paid.
No person to the Performance Share Plan as described above.
holds shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, the directors propose The Companys authorised share capital as at 31 December Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of AGM, to renew the 2009 was 210,000,000 2008: 150,000,000 ordinary shares of authority granted to them at the AGM in 2009 to allot shares 10p each 21,000,000 2008: 15,000,000.
With effect up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,178,508, and up to from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 an aggregate nominal value of 8,357,016 where the Act abolished the requirement for a company to have an allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
These amounts authorised share capital, although any such provision represent approximately one-third and two-thirds, contained in a companys memorandum or articles of respectively, of the Companys issued share capital as at the association continues to operate as a deemed restriction date of this report.
upon the issue of shares above that number.
Given this and other changes implemented by the 2006 Act, the Company is Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish to seeking authority to remove the limit on its authorised share allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to an capital and make further changes to update its Articles of employee share scheme they must first offer them to Association at the 2010 AGM Resolution 13.
The directors existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings will still be limited as to the number of shares that they can 44 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 a preemptive offer.
There may be occasions, however, Any shares purchased under this authority will, unless the when the directors will need the flexibility to take advantage directors determine that they are to be held as treasury of business opportunities as they arise and this cannot be shares, be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will done under the 2006 Act unless shareholders have first be reduced accordingly.
Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as a special resolution Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in in order to renew the directors authority to allot shares for treasury, the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares cash other than by way of rights to existing shareholders up purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be to an aggregate nominal amount of 626,838.
By restricting held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold such authority to an aggregate nominal value of no more for cash or used to meet the Companys obligations under its than 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at employee share schemes.
The authority sought by this the date of this report, the Company will be in compliance resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles by the Company as treasury shares in accordance with the the Principles.
Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules of the Rights attaching to shares Financial Services Authority do not require shareholders General specific approval for each issue of shares for cash on a nonThe rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the pre-emptive basis to the extent that under section 570 of 2006 Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy the 2006 Act the provisions of section 561 are disapplied of the Articles can be obtained on request from the Company generally.
If given, this authority will expire on the date of Secretary.
The Articles may only be changed by special the next AGM of the Company.
The Principles also request resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on a that in any rolling three-year period a company does not show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders make non pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities or proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys issued share capital resolution or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal without prior consultation with shareholders.
value of the votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to be in favour of the resolution.
The directors have no current plans to make use of the authorities sought by Resolutions 10 and 11, other than the A shareholder whose name appears on the register of issue of shares pursuant to employee share schemes, but members may choose whether those shares are evidenced by consider it appropriate to maintain the Companys flexibility share certificates certificated form or held in electronic in relation to future share issues, including any issues form uncertificated in CREST.
necessary to finance appropriate business opportunities, should they arise.
Voting Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder is Repurchase of shares entitled to attend or appoint another person as his The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution representative a proxy to attend and to exercise all or passed at the 2009 AGM to repurchase up to 12,501,637 of any of his rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The shares may general meeting of the Company.
A member may also appoint be purchased at prices ranging between the nominal value more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed for each share and an amount equal to the higher of to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market price of held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the the ordinary shares for the five business days immediately Company.
preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
This has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM enjoy information rights a Nominated Person.
No shares have been repurchased by the may, however, have a right under an agreement with the Company under the authority granted at the 2009 AGM.
registered shareholder holding the shares on his her behalf Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a as a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
Alternatively, if a Nominated Person does not have Although the directors have no immediate plans to do so, such a right, or does not wish to exercise it, he she may they believe it is prudent to seek general authority from have a right under such an agreement to give instructions shareholders to be able to act if circumstances were to arise to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
This power will only be exercised if and when, in the light of market conditions prevailing at that time, the directors To be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to believe that such purchases would increase earnings per shareholders or any proxy registered electronically in relation share and would be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
to any general meeting must be delivered to the Companys Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 45 Directors report General information and disclosures continued registrars not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for The AGM holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Full details An AGM must be called on at least 21 days clear notice.
of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the All other general meetings are also required to be held on 2010 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM.
at least 21 days clear notice.
The directors are proposing Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any authority obtained at last years AGM to reduce the notice shares may for the time being be held, on a vote on a period for general meetings other than AGMs to at least resolution at a general meeting on a show of hands every 14 days.
It is intended that this shorter notice period will shareholder present in person, every proxy present who has only be used for non-routine business and where merited been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on the in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
resolution and every authorised representative of a corporation which is a member of the Company entitled to Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than vote on the resolution, shall have one vote.
On a poll, every six weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for the notice of an AGM is given, shareholders representing every share held.
at least 5 per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders who have a right to vote at the AGM or at least If a person fails to give the Company any information 100 shareholders who have that right and who hold shares required by a notice served on him by the Company under in the Company on which there has been paid up an average section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers upon public sum per member of at least 100, may require the Company companies the power to require information to be supplied in to include an item in the business to be dealt with at respect of a persons interests in the Companys shares then the AGM.
the Company may, no sooner than 21 days later, and after warning that person, serve a disenfranchisement notice upon Proceedings at general meetings the shareholder registered as the holder of the shares in At any general meeting every resolution shall be decided in respect of which the section 793 notice was given.
Unless the the first instance by a show of hands.
information required by the section 793 notice is given within 14 days, such holder will not be entitled to receive notice of On or before the declaration of the result on a show of hands, any general meeting or attend any such meeting of the a poll may be directed by the chairman of the meeting or Company and shall not be entitled to exercise, either personally or by proxy, the votes attaching to such shares in a demanded by at least two shareholders present in person respect of which the disenfranchisement notice has been or their proxies : or given unless and until the information required by the section 793 notice has been provided.
b by one or more shareholders or their proxies representing not less than 10 per cent of the total voting rights of all Dividends shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the No business may be transacted at a general meeting unless a members but the amount of the dividend shall not exceed quorum is present consisting of not less than two members the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors present in person or by proxy or by two duly authorised may also pay interim dividends on any class of shares on any representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of the same dates and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as member or two duly authorised representatives of the same appear to the directors to be justified by the distributable corporation will not constitute a quorum.
The business of an annual general meeting is to receive and Liquidation consider the accounts and balance sheets and the reports of If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the the directors and auditors, to elect directors in place of sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any those retiring, to elect auditors and fix their remuneration other sanction required by law, divide amongst the and to declare a dividend.
shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, for such purposes, set such value as Modification of rights he deems fair upon any property to be divided and may If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into determine how such division shall be carried out as between different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
The or any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or liquidator may also transfer the whole or any part of such varied either: assets to trustees to be held in trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can be compelled to accept any a with the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the shares or other securities which would give him any liability.
issued shares of that class: or b with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
46 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless Directorate and directors interests and otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that indemnities class or by the terms upon which such shares are for the time The following unless otherwise noted have been directors being held be deemed to be modified or varied by the throughout the year: creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu therewith.
Lord Blackwell Group Chairman The Company may by ordinary resolution, convert any A M Ringrose Chief Executive paid-up shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into G P Balfour Senior Independent Director paid-up shares of any denomination.
L G Cullen S L Dance Transfer of shares T C Jones There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities 1 N F Keegan in the Company, nor the size of a members holding, which B A Melizan are both governed by the Articles of Association and 2 D A Thorpe prevailing legislation.
In accordance with the Listing, D A Trapnell Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 3 J H Vyse Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required Non-executive director.
1 Mr Keegan retired from the Board on 12 May 2009. to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
2 Mr Thorpe was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2009.
3 Mr Vyse retired from the Board on 3 April 2009.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer Mr Thorpe was appointed as a non-executive director on of securities or on voting rights.
Mr Vyse retired as an executive director on 3 April 2009 and Mr Keegan stood down as a non-executive The directors may decline to register the transfer of any director at the AGM on 12 May 2009. certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as Balfour, Cullen and Ringrose retire by rotation and, being the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
transferor to make the transfer.
The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through ordinary shares in the Company at the year end are set out in CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in the Directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 59 of this accordance with the regulations governing the operation Annual report and financial statements.
Between the year end and the date of this report, Messrs Under the 2006 Act, share transfers must be registered as Ringrose, Dance and Jones have purchased an additional soon as practicable.
The power in the Companys current 177 shares each pursuant to the Interserve Share Incentive Articles of Association to suspend the registration of Plan 2009.
Further details are disclosed on page 57 in the transfers at the directors absolute discretion is inconsistent Directors remuneration report.
There have been no further with this requirement and the new Articles proposed by changes in the directors shareholdings.
The directors do not have any interest in any other Group Appointment and replacement of directors company.
No director has, or has had, a material interest, The Board must comprise of not less than three and no more directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under than twelve directors.
Directors may be appointed by review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Further information regarding the re-election of directors On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension can be found on page 38 in the Corporate governance report.
Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less out by the Trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company cannot be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out has been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to by the Trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person remains in force at the date of this report and is available for election together with a notice executed by that person for inspection by shareholders at the Companys of his willingness to be elected.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the 2006 Act, remove any director before the expiration of his period of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his stead.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 47 Directors report General information and disclosures continued There are no provisions in the directors service agreements Substantial shareholdings nor in any employees contracts providing for compensation As at 10 March 2010 the Company has been notified of the for loss of office or employment occurring because of a following interests in the voting rights over shares: takeover.
Number of % of issued Nature of Name of holder ordinary shares share capital holding Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Company during the year Sageview Capital 10,271,035 8.19 Indirect MGP, LLC amounted to 38,400 2008: 29,375.
Details of the beneficiaries of donations are given on page 35 in the JPMorgan 6,528,774 5.21Indirect Asset Management charitable giving section of the Corporate responsibility Holdings Inc section of this report.
Henderson Global 6,503,659 5.19 Direct Investors Ltd No political donations were made during the period 2008: nil.
It is not the Companys policy to make cash Aberforth Partners LLP 6,218,400 4.96 Indirect donations to political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered Old Mutual Asset 6,110,246 4.87 Direct to and there is no intention to change it.
However, the Managers UK Ltd definitions used in the 2006 Act for political donation and Newton Investment 5,773,104 4.60 Indirect political expenditure remain very broad, which may have Management Ltd the effect of covering a number of normal business activities Lloyds Banking 5,508,016 4.39 Direct and that would not be considered political donations or political Group plc indirect expenditure in the usual sense.
These could include support Legal & General 5,001,713 3.99 Direct for bodies engaged in law reform or governmental policy Group Plc review or involvement in seminars and functions that may There are no other notifiable interests, so far as the directors be attended by politicians.
To avoid any possibility of are aware, in the issued share capital of the Company.
inadvertently contravening the 2006 Act, the directors are again seeking shareholder authority at the AGM Resolution 9 Significant agreements change of to ensure that the Company acts within the provisions of control provisions current UK law when carrying out its normal business activities.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination rights in Creditor payment policy the event of a change of control in the Company: It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with its suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment a 225 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility becomes due when it can be confirmed that goods and or dated 2 May 2006 arranged by HSBC Bank plc HSBC services have been provided in accordance with the relevant and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc with HSBC as facility contractual conditions.
The Groups trade creditor days at agent, under which if any person or group of persons 31 December 2009 were 73 days 2008: 66 days.
The acting together pursuant to an agreement or Companys trade creditor days at 31 December 2009 understanding whether formal or informal which did not calculated in accordance with the 2006 Act were four days have control at the date of the facility agreement gain 2008: 14 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, control of the Company, the facility agent must, if the between the amounts invoiced to the Company in the year by majority lenders so require, by giving not less than five its suppliers and the amounts due, at the year end, to trade business days prior notice to the Company, cancel the creditors falling due for payment within one year.
facilities and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under Auditors those facilities, to be immediately due and payable: and Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their a 25 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
dated 4 June 2007 provided by The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland as original lender and Statement on information to auditors facility agent under which if any person or group of Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this persons acting together pursuant to an agreement or report confirms that: understanding whether formal or informal which did not have control at the date of the facility agreement gain a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit control of the Company, the facility agent must, if the information of which the Companys auditors are majority lenders so require, by giving not less than five unaware: and business days prior notice to the Company, cancel the facilities and declare all outstanding loans, together with b he has made such enquiries of his fellow directors and of accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the Companys auditors and has taken such other steps as those facilities, to be immediately due and payable.
were required by his duty as a director of the Company to exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make The Groups share schemes also contain provisions relating to himself aware of any relevant audit information and to the vesting and exercising of awards options in the event of establish that the Companys auditors are aware of a change of control of the Group.
48 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 10 May 2010, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders and which is also available on our website at www.
Interserve House Approved by the Board of Ruscombe Park directors and signed on Twyford behalf of the Board Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU T Bradbury Company Secretary 10 March 2010 Cautionary statement The Directors report the Report set out above has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing, Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Report.
The directors liability for the Report is limited, as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forward-looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual report and financial statements shall be governed by English Law.
Nothing in this Annual report and financial statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
