Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed by the We have audited the parent company financial statements of Companies Act 2006 Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which In our opinion: comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes A to Q.
The financial reporting framework that has been the part of the Directors remuneration report to be applied in their preparation is applicable law and United audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a financial year for which the financial statements are body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the prepared is consistent with the parent company financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so statements.
that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Matters on which we are required to report by report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to anyone other than the Company and the Companys where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for if, in our opinion: the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Respective responsibilities of directors and parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have auditors not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation the parent company financial statements and the part of of the parent company financial statements and for being the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those by law are not made: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matters disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the Group financial reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free statements of Interserve Plc for the year ended from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 31 December 2009. error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the parent company financial statements: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors give a true and fair view of the state of the parent London, United Kingdom companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: 10 March 2010 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
