com Intertek Annual Report 2009 75 Notes to the financial statements 1 General Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2009 consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Groups activities are the testing, inspection and certification of products and commodities against a wide range of safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards.
Note 3 provides a segmental analysis of the Groups performance.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 119 to 122.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets are stated at fair value.
Functional and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
All information presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest 100,000.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements, except as explained below which addresses changes in accounting policies.
The Group has adopted in the year the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations: i IFRS 8 Operating Segments ii IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs iii IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements iv Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2008 i Operating Segments As of 1 January 2009, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally presented to the Board of Directors, who in their entirety are the Groups chief operating decision maker.
This change in accounting policy is due to the adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Previously operating segments were determined and presented in accordance with IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
Comparative segmental information has been re-presented in conformity with the transitional requirements of such standard.
Since the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation and disclosure aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
ii Borrowing Costs In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
Previously the Group immediately recognised all borrowing costs as an expense.
The change in accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23 Borrowing Costs 2007 in accordance with the transitional provisions of such standard: comparative figures have not been restated.
The change in accounting policy has had no material effect on earnings per share.
iii Presentation of Financial Statements The Group applies revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 2007 which became effective as of 1 January 2009.
As a result the Group presents in the consolidated statement of changes in equity all owner changes in equity, whereas all non-owner changes in equity are presented in two separate statements, the consolidated income statement displaying components of profit and loss and a consolidated statement of comprehensive income displaying components of comprehensive income.
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it is also in conformity with the revised standard.
Since the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
iv Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards There have been no impact on the financial statements from the application of these improvements.
"76 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2009, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements: s &23 2EVISED n ""USINESS COMBINATIONS EFFECTIVE FOR ANNUAL PERIODS ON OR AFTER ULY ENDORSED BY THE %5 IN UNE s !3 2EVISED n #ONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EFFECTIVE FOR ANNUAL PERIODS BEGINNING ON OR AFTER ULY endorsed by the EU in June 2009 s !MENDMENTS TO &23 n MPROVING DISCLOSURES ABOUT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS EFFECTIVE FOR ANNUAL PERIODS ON OR AFTER ANUARY endorsed by the EU in November 2009 s !MENDMENTS TO !3 AND &2 # n %MBEDDED $ERIVATIVES EFFECTIVE FOR ANNUAL PERIODS ON OR AFTER UNE ENDORSED BY THE EU in November 2009 s !MENDMENTS TO &23 n 'ROUP CASH SETTLED SHARE BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS EFFECTIVE FOR ANNUAL PERIODS ON OR AFTER ANUARY not yet endorsed by the EU s MPROVEMENTS TO NTERNATIONAL &INANCIAL 2EPORTING 3TANDARDS EFFECTIVE FOR ANNUAL PERIODS ON OR AFTER ULY NOT YET endorsed by the EU The adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the income, expenses, assets and liabilities of the Group, except as listed below: IFRS 3 Revised Although the Group has not early adopted IFRS 3 Revised, acquisition-related costs have been incurred prior to the adoption of this standard in relation to acquisitions that will be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised."
The Group has chosen to expense these acquisition-related costs as incurred, see note 4.
Notwithstanding that IFRS 3 Revised is not yet effective, it is expected to be effective at the time that the related business combinations are expected to occur.
Under the new accounting policy, as mentioned above, transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as finders fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, and other professional and consulting fees are expensed as incurred.
The change in accounting policy may have an impact on earnings per share.
IAS 27 Revised Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders and therefore no goodwill is recognised on these transactions.
The change in accounting policy will not have a significant impact on earnings per share.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
Going concern The Board has reviewed forecasts, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic conditions.
The Board has also reviewed the Groups funding requirements and considered the expiry of its sterling denominated multi-currency bank debt in December 2011.
As a result of these reviews the Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity position.
The Board believes that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
In addition, on the basis of its forecasts, both base case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described in note 17, the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the primary statements and note 17 to the financial statements.
In addition note 26 to the financial statements includes the Groups financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Use of judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
In applying the Groups accounting policies, management has applied judgement in the following areas that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Also discussed below, are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation at the balance sheet date, that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Non-recurring costs These are items which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incident in order for the user to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The determination of which items are separately disclosed as non-recurring costs requires a significant degree of judgement, see note 4. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 77 2 Significant accounting policies continued Income tax The actual tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the financial statements, see note 8.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income, see note 14.
Intangible assets When the Group makes an acquisition, management reviews the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately from goodwill.
If such an asset is identified, then it is valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset.
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation, see note 11.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill, at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows, see note 11.
Contingent consideration When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts payable on agreed post completion dates.
These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed performance targets.
At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the profit and cash forecasts for the acquired business and estimates the amount of contingent consideration that is likely to be due, see note 19.
Basis of consolidation Judgement is applied when determining if an entity acquired is controlled by the Group, and therefore is defined as a subsidiary.
Control is presumed to exist when the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity.
However, even if the Group owns half or less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist.
In assessing control, the Group considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised.
Specific examples of where the Group has control of subsidiaries are where it has the power to govern the entitys financial and operating policies by virtue of statute or agreement and where it has the power to cast the majority of votes of the entitys governing body, see note 24.
Claims In making provision for claims, management bases its judgement on the circumstances relating to each specific event, internal and external legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents.
The Groups legal and warranty claims are reviewed, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis by senior management, see note 19.
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations The Group has three principal defined pension benefit plans.
The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and represent the present value of the obligation calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management.
These actuarial valuations include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates.
These assumptions vary from time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions, see note 23.
Recoverability of trade receivables Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses.
This provision is based primarily on a review of all outstanding accounts and considers the past payment history and creditworthiness of each account and the length of time that the debt has remained unpaid.
The actual amounts of debts that ultimately prove irrecoverable could vary from the actual provision made, see note 26. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
For purchases of minority interest in subsidiaries, the Group applies the entity concept method.
Under this method, the entire difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary, and the minority interests share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheet at the date of acquisition of the minority interests, is reflected directly in the shareholders equity.
78 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation or has made payments on behalf of an associate.
The Group does not consider the associates to be an integral part of the Groups operations and therefore its results are presented outside of the Group operating profit.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, except those arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, and on retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments which are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the year.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates: Income and expenses Assets and liabilities Cumulative Actual rates average rates Value of 1 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 08 2009 2008 US dollar 1.60 1.46 1.56 1.87 Euro 1.11 1.02 1.12 1.26 Chinese renminbi 10.90 9.95 10.63 13.03 Hong Kong dollar 12.38 11.28 12.06 14.59 Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to equity in the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
The Group has taken advantage of relief available in IFRS 1, to deem the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition to IFRSs on 1 January 2004.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are discussed in accounting policy e. d Financial instruments Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses see accounting policy i.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement, and foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items see note c, are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 79 2 Significant accounting policies continued Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost.
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge economically its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, in which case the recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy e. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise price of the contract.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
e Hedging Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same year that the hedged item affects the income statement.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the hedged net investment is disposed of, the cumulative amount in equity is transferred to the income statement as an adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
80 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued f Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and accumulated impairment losses see accounting policy i.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposal of items of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in profit or loss.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Leased assets Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Other leases are operating leases.
These leased assets are not recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment.
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives, unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 50 years Short leasehold buildings Term of lease Fixtures, fittings and equipment 310 years Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are re-assessed at each reporting date.
Borrowing costs In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
g Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses see accounting policy i.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investments in associates.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework.
Purchased goodwill in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998 was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition, in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
If at the balance sheet date the fair values of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be established provisionally, then these values are used.
Any adjustments to these values made within 12 months of the acquisition date are taken as adjustments to goodwill.
Other intangible assets Other than goodwill, intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable, and which have finite useful lives.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 81 2 Significant accounting policies continued Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Computer software Up to 5 years Customer relationships Up to 10 years Know-how Up to 5 years Licences Contractual life Covenants not to compete Contractual life h Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of the inventories is based on the first-in-first-out FIFO principle.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
i Impairment Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
j Employee benefits Defined contribution plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as incurred.
82 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value.
Any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA creditrated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of i an unconditional right to a refund from the plan or ii reductions in future contributions to the plan as measured by the estimated future service cost less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual of benefits in that year.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
In addition a provision for future minimum funding contributions is recorded to the extent that such payments are required to cover an existing shortfall, as measured on a minimum funding contribution basis, and having been paid will not be available as a refund or a reduction in future contributions to the plan.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees services in the accounting period is charged to the operating profit in the income statement.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity.
Share-based payment transactions The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares, is measured at the grant date and is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and expensed to the income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award.
The charge for the share options and for the share awards is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting where conditions are non-market based.
The expense of the share awards under the deferred bonus plan is also adjusted for the probability of performance conditions being achieved.
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options and share awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Own shares held by ESOT trust Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT trust are included in the Group financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
k Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
l Revenue Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement when the relevant service is completed, usually when the report of findings is issued or in certain circumstances, in proportion to the stage of completion, normally determined by reference to costs incurred to date in proportion to the total anticipated costs of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
m Expenses Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, facility fees, interest receivable on funds invested, net foreign exchange gains or losses on external income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities, and gains and losses on hedging instruments, that are recognised in the income statement see accounting policy e. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
n Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 83 2 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: overseas retained earnings, the distribution of which is under the control of the Group, and which are not likely to be distributed in the foreseeable future: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
o Dividends Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid.
Final dividends are reported as a movement in equity in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
p Operating segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
All operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
3 Operating segments From 1 January 2009, the Group is organised into six operating divisions each of which offer services to different industries and are managed separately: Consumer Goods, Commercial & Electrical, Oil, Chemical & Agri, Analytical Services, Industrial Services and Minerals.
The costs of the corporate head office and other costs which are not controlled by the operating divisions are allocated to these divisions.
Prior to 1 January 2009, Government Services was reported as a separate division.
This division was restructured in 2008 and from 1 January 2009 was incorporated into the Oil, Chemical & Agri division.
Following the restructuring, a small number of companies have changed division to ensure a good strategic fit.
Segmental information previously reported for periods prior to 1 January 2009 has been restated to show a like-for-like comparison.
These divisions are the operating segments that are reported to the chief operating decision maker and are the Groups reportable segments.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arms length basis.
There is no significant seasonality in the Groups operations.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly borrowings, pension fund liabilities, corporate expenses and assets and tax.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment, and computer software.
Principal activities are as follows: Consumer Goods provides services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food, and retail industries.
Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance, and hazardous substance testing.
Commercial & Electrical provides services including testing and certification, electromagnetic compatibility testing EMC, outsourcing, benchmark and performance testing and environmental testing.
These are provided to a wide range of industries including the home appliance, lighting, medical, building, industrial and HVAC R heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration, IT, telecom, renewable energy and automotive industries.
Oil, Chemical & Agri provides independent cargo inspection as well as non-inspection related laboratory testing, calibration and related technical services to the worlds energy, petroleum, chemical and agricultural industries.
It also provides cargo scanning, fiscal support services and standards programmes to governments, national standards organisations and customs authorities.
Analytical Services provides expert laboratory services and consultancy to a broad range of industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and automotive and aerospace.
We have an established track record of success in laboratory outsourcing with many large internationally recognised companies.
Industrial Services provides inspection, testing and auditing services, including management systems certification, second-party auditing, supplier evaluation, technical verification, conformity assessment, asset integrity management, dimensional control management, training, health and safety and risk consulting, and greenhouse gas services.
Minerals provides complete analytical solutions to the worlds minerals, ore and mining industries.
84 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 3 Operating segments continued Year ended 31 December 2009 Revenue Amortisation from InterAdjusted of Nonexternal segment Total operating acquisition recurring Operating customers revenue revenue profit intangibles costs profit m m m m m m m Consumer Goods 320.9 0.8 321.7 105.5 0.8 104.7 Commercial & Electrical 244.8 2.9 247.7 34.7 3.1 31.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 406.7 1.2 407.9 43.7 0.8 6.3 36.6 Analytical Services 137.5 1.7 139.2 14.6 4.1 10.5 Industrial Services 80.7 3.9 84.6 6.5 2.8 3.7 Minerals 46.7 46.7 4.0 1.2 2.8 Eliminations 10.5 10.5 Total 1,237.3 1,237.3 209.0 12.8 6.3 189.9 Unallocated non-recurring costs 3.2 Group operating profit 186.7 Net financing costs 17.5 Profit before income tax 169.2 Income tax expense 45.5 Profit for the year 123.7 Year ended 31 December 2009 Depreciation Capital and expenditure Segment Segment software including assets liabilities amortisation software m m m m Consumer Goods 124.6 43.6 12.3 13.6 Commercial & Electrical 187.0 46.1 11.3 10.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri 180.8 65.5 16.2 15.4 Analytical Services 159.8 16.2 5.6 5.1 Industrial Services 62.2 11.9 0.7 0.4 Minerals 72.9 6.9 4.9 3.3 Central 9.9 14.7 0.4 4.4 Total allocated 797.2 204.9 51.4 52.8 Investments Unallocated 158.9 411.9 Total 956.1 616.8 51.4 52.8 Year ended 31 December 2008 Revenue Amortisation from InterAdjusted of external segment Total operating acquisition Impairment Non-recurring Operating customers revenue revenue profit intangibles of goodwill costs profit m m m m m m m m Consumer Goods 242.5 0.5 243.0 75.1 1.0 74.1 Commercial & Electrical 203.5 2.6 206.1 29.2 1.5 0.5 27.2 Oil, Chemical & Agri 348.6 7.3 355.9 39.3 0.6 6.7 32.0 Analytical Services 119.5 119.5 13.2 3.9 9.3 Industrial Services 45.6 1.8 47.4 2.8 1.6 1.2 Minerals 43.8 43.8 5.1 1.0 4.1 Eliminations 12.2 12.2 Total 1,003.5 1,003.5 164.7 9.6 0.5 6.7 147.9 Net financing costs 9.5 Share of profit of associates 0.2 Profit before income tax 138.6 Income tax expense 36.4 Profit for the year 102.2 www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 85 3 Operating segments continued Year ended 31 December 2008 Depreciation Capital and expenditure Segment Segment software including assets liabilities amortisation software m m m m Consumer Goods 139.2 47.3 9.3 14.3 Commercial & Electrical 198.8 47.2 8.8 16.3 Oil, Chemical & Agri 202.4 61.5 13.6 17.0 Analytical Services 171.8 16.4 4.4 5.4 Industrial Services 33.9 4.8 0.4 0.5 Minerals 68.9 6.3 2.8 12.3 Central 6.5 8.0 0.2 1.8 Total allocated 821.5 191.5 39.5 67.6 Investments 5.7 Unallocated 132.2 510.2 Total 959.4 701.7 39.5 67.6 Oil, Chemical & Agri includes Government Services which was previously reported as a separate division.
Geographic segments All the business segments are managed on a worldwide basis but the main countries, which represent greater than 10% of either the Groups external revenues or non-current assets, are Australia, China including Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating that revenue.
Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
86 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 4 Non-recurring costs The non-recurring costs of 9.5m in 2009 comprise acquisition costs of 2.5m and restructuring and other costs of 7.0m.
Although the Group has not early adopted IFRS 3 Revised, acquisition-related costs have been incurred prior to the adoption of this standard in relation to acquisitions that will be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised.
The Group has chosen to expense these acquisition-related costs as incurred.
The restructuring and other costs are principally related to employment costs, including redundancies, retirement costs and settlements to former employees.
There are also some closure costs and asset write downs in underperforming businesses.
The majority of the restructuring was in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division.
The tax impact for these costs is a tax credit of 1.6m.
The non-recurring costs of 6.7m in 2008 comprised employee redundancies and settlements, lease terminations and consultancy and legal fees.
The tax impact was a tax credit of 1.2m.
The costs related primarily to the integration of the Government Services division with the Oil, Chemical & Agri division, following the Groups strategic review of its operating segments.
5 Expenses and auditors remuneration 2009 2008 m m Included in profit for the year are the following expenses: Property rentals 40.4 32.7 Lease and hire charges fixtures, fittings and equipment 8.2 6.2 Depreciation and software amortisation 51.4 39.5 Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software 0.4 0.6 2009 2008 000s 000s Auditors remuneration: Audit of these financial statements 349 313 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1,182 1,055 Other services pursuant to such legislation review of interim financial statements 80 79 Taxation services 172 137 Transaction advisory 397 Pension services 22 Other 137 52 Total 2,317 1,658 In addition the auditors and their associates were paid 10,000 2008: 10,000 in respect of the audit of associated pension schemes.
6 Employees 2009 2008 Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 477.4 383.7 Equity-settled transactions 4.9 3.3 Social security costs 47.6 37.6 Pension costs 19.8 16.3 Total employee costs 549.7 440.9 Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Details of pension arrangements and equity-settled transactions are set out in notes 23 and 25 respectively.
Average number of employees by activity 2009 2008 Consumer Goods 8,843 7,895 Commercial & Electrical 3,507 3,259 Oil, Chemical & Agri 8,627 8,866 Analytical Services 1,352 1,166 Industrial Services 765 287 Minerals 1,323 1,141 Central 163 65 Total average number for the year ended 31 December 24,580 22,679 Total actual number at 31 December 25,183 23,841 IT staff reallocated from divisions to form part of the newly created central IT function, in addition to new staff recruited in the year.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 87 7 Net financing costs 2009 2008 Recognised in income statement m m Finance income Interest on bank balances 1.0 1.6 Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 Expected return on pension assets note 23 3.3 4.1 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred from equity 1.1 Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities 7.4 Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading forward exchange contracts 2.0 Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading interest rate swaps 0.2 Total finance income 7.7 13.1 Finance expense Interest on borrowings 16.1 13.7 Pension interest cost note 23 3.7 3.9 Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges 0.1 Foreign exchange differences on interest accruals 0.8 Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading forward exchange contracts 3.5 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred from equity 0.2 Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities 4.7 Facility fees and other 0.5 0.6 Total finance expense 25.2 22.6 Net financing costs 17.5 9.5 2009 2008 Recognised directly in other comprehensive income m m Foreign currency translation differences of foreign operations 35.4 138.4 Net exchange gain loss on hedges of net investment in foreign operations 27.2 110.9 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 1.3 3.7 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred to profit or loss 0.2 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 1.1 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred to profit or loss 1.1 Income tax on income and expense above recognised directly in equity 0.4 0.1 Finance expense income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax 7.1 23.9 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 6.5 20.4 Minority interest 0.6 3.5 Finance expense income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax 7.1 23.9 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 1.5 3.7 Translation reserve and minority interests 8.2 27.5 Retained earnings 0.4 0.1 Finance expense income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax 7.1 23.9 88 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 8 Income tax expense 2009 2008 m m UK corporation tax at 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 2.7 3.4 Double taxation relief 1.5 0.7 UK taxation 4.2 4.1 Overseas taxation 58.6 47.8 Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities 0.3 1.8 Current tax 54.1 41.9 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 8.6 5.5 Total tax in income statement 45.5 36.4 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Tax Before Tax Net Before credit Net tax expense of tax tax expense of tax Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income m m m m m m Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 35.4 35.4 138.4 138.4 Net exchange gain loss on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 27.2 27.2 110.9 110.9 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 1.3 0.4 0.9 3.7 1.1 2.6 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 0.2 0.2 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2.5 0.8 3.3 12.3 1.0 13.3 Total other comprehensive income for the year 9.2 1.2 10.4 11.5 0.1 11.6 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Before Tax Net Before Tax Net tax credit of tax tax expense of tax Income tax recognised directly in equity m m m m m m Equity-settled transactions 4.9 1.4 6.3 3.3 0.1 3.2 Total tax income expense recognised directly in equity 4.9 1.4 6.3 3.3 0.1 3.2 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Reconciliation of the notional tax charge at UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28.0% 2008: 28.5%.
2009 2008 m m Profit before taxation 169.2 138.6 Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 47.4 39.5 Differences in overseas tax rates 10.6 2.8 Tax on dividends 6.0 1.0 Non-deductible expenses 4.8 3.2 Tax exempt income 0.6 1.6 Losses brought forward utilised 4.2 0.3 Current year losses not recognised 1.5 1.1 Accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences not recognised 4.4 1.8 Brought forward accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences utilised 0.3 2.1 Recognition of previously unprovided accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences 2.9 1.3 Recognition of previously unprovided losses 0.3 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 1.8 Total tax in income statement 45.5 36.4 During the year there was a current tax credit of 0.8m on equity-settled transactions 2008: credit of 0.1m and deferred tax charge of 0.6m on pension deficit, interest rate swaps and equity-settled transactions 2008: charge of 0.1m charged directly to equity see note 14.
The main reason for the increase in the effective tax rate was a change in the mix of profits and an increasing dividend withholding tax burden.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 89 9 Earnings per ordinary share The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share, an adjusted earnings per share has also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and non-recurring costs.
It has been calculated to allow shareholders to have a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below: 2009 2008 m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 114.7 93.8 Adjusting items: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 12.8 9.6 Impairment of goodwill 0.5 Non-recurring costs 9.5 6.7 Adjusted earnings 137.0 110.6 Tax impact on adjusting items 5.6 3.7 Adjusted earnings after tax impact 131.4 106.9 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 158.4 157.7 Potentially dilutive share options 2.8 1.7 Diluted weighted average number of shares 161.2 159.4 Basic earnings per share 72.4p 59.5p Options 1.2 p 0.6 p Diluted earnings per share 71.2p 58.9p Basic adjusted earnings per share after tax impact 83.0p 67.8p Options 1.5 p 0.7 p Diluted adjusted earnings per share after tax impact 81.5p 67.1p The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of the diluted earnings per share for the year to 31 December 2009, excludes nil 2008: 780,343 contingently issuable shares as the performance conditions were not met.
90 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 10 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings Land and and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 27.1 249.2 276.3 Exchange adjustments 10.1 92.1 102.2 Additions 2.1 61.8 63.9 Disposals 5.7 5.7 Businesses acquired note 24 4.2 5.7 9.9 At 31 December 2008 43.5 403.1 446.6 Depreciation At 1 January 2008 3.9 123.2 127.1 Exchange adjustments 1.4 51.6 53.0 Charge for the year 0.8 35.8 36.6 Disposals 4.9 4.9 At 31 December 2008 6.1 205.7 211.8 Net book value at 31 December 2008 37.4 197.4 234.8 Net book value at 1 January 2008 23.2 126.0 149.2 Cost At 1 January 2009 43.5 403.1 446.6 Exchange adjustments 2.5 22.6 25.1 Additions 7.3 38.4 45.7 Disposals 11.9 11.9 Businesses acquired note 24 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2009 48.3 407.4 455.7 Depreciation At 1 January 2009 6.1 205.7 211.8 Exchange adjustments 0.4 12.8 13.2 Charge for the year 1.7 45.7 47.4 Disposals 11.2 11.2 At 31 December 2009 7.4 227.4 234.8 Net book value at 31 December 2009 40.9 180.0 220.9 Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes assets in the course of construction of 7.0m at 31 December 2009, 2008: 7.8m, comprising mainly of laboratories under construction.
These assets will not be depreciated until they are brought into use.
There are no significant borrowing costs capitalised within any qualifying assets 2008: nil.
The net book value of land and buildings comprised: 2009 2008 m m Freehold 37.9 34.1 Long leasehold 0.1 0.6 Short leasehold 2.9 2.7 Total 40.9 37.4 www.
The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is 3.3 years 2008: 4.1 years.
Computer software net book value of 12.0m at 31 December 2009 2008: 9.8m includes software in construction of 5.8m 2008: 2.2m.
Borrowing costs capitalised within software in the course of construction is nil 2008: 0.1m.
92 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to operating segments as follows: 2009 2008 m m Consumer Goods 1.2 13.6 Commercial & Electrical 2.6 13.0 Oil, Chemical & Agri 0.5 Analytical Services 8.0 Industrial Services 20.4 10.7 Minerals 0.2 7.6 Total goodwill 24.4 53.4 The total carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Consumer Goods 23.5 23.3 Commercial & Electrical 57.6 59.8 Oil, Chemical & Agri 23.4 24.4 Analytical Services 81.8 86.0 Industrial Services 34.4 16.2 Minerals 37.1 32.4 Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 257.8 242.1 All goodwill is recorded in local currency.
Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Cash generating units At 31 December 2008, the carrying amount of goodwill was 242.1m allocated across 45 cash generating units CGUs.
Each acquired legal entity was treated as a separate CGU unless it was subsumed into an existing Intertek legal entity.
As a result of the Intertek as One internal Group-wide initiative, various levels of restructuring occurred during 2008 and 2009 which have been noted below.
Intertek as One was designed to facilitate greater cohesion and integration within the Group, to encourage significant cross-selling and to share common clients amongst operating units and globally.
The restructuring was considered as part of the annual goodwill impairment test which included a re-assessment of not only the constitution of the CGUs but also the allocation of goodwill across those CGUs and operating segments as required under the newly adopted standard, IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
s &ROM ANUARY THE 'ROUP WAS RESTRUCTURED INTO SEVEN OPERATING DIVISIONS PREVIOUSLY FOUR #ONSUMER 'OODS #OMMERCIAL %LECTRICAL Oil, Chemical & Agri, Government Services, Analytical Services, Industrial Services and Minerals.
s 4HE 'OVERNMENT 3ERVICES DIVISION WAS RESTRUCTURED AT THE END OF BEING INTEGRATED INTO IL #HEMICAL !GRI SUCH THAT THE 'ROUP operated in six divisions effective 1 January 2009. s %FFECTIVE ANUARY THE MANAGEMENT REPORTING STRUCTURE WAS REORGANISED SUCH THAT MANAGEMENT WAS MORE UNIFIED ON A REGIONAL and country basis, and senior management was responsible for divisional results globally.
The internal reporting systems were also changed to support the new reporting structure.
Previously, lines of responsibilities and ultimately decision-making were held at a more local level whereas in 2009, lines of responsibilities and decision-making were held at a global divisional level.
The impact of the above restructuring has led to greater global operational control across divisions, improved management of global customer accounts, and more effective integration of acquired businesses into existing Intertek operations which previously had more local, independent control over decision-making.
The above review has led to a change in the composition of the CGUs and also to a change in the level at which management monitors goodwill.
There are now eight CGUs which generate cash inflows which are largely independent of other CGUs and to which goodwill has been allocated.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 93 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment Review The following table shows how the total Group goodwill of 257.8m 2008: 242.1m is split into eight CGUs.
2009 2008 Cash generating units CGUs m m Consumer Goods 23.5 23.3 Commercial & Electrical 57.6 59.8 Oil, Chemical & Agri 23.4 24.4 Analytical Services Materials & Pharmaceutical Testing 57.5 62.2 Analytical Services Upstream 24.3 23.8 Industrial Services Systems Certification 3.2 3.3 Industrial Services Technical Services 31.2 12.9 Minerals 37.1 32.4 Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 257.8 242.1 In order to determine whether impairments are required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The calculation is based on projecting future cash flows over a five year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model which assumes long term growth rate on the operating cash flows of between 2% and 5% reflecting the long term GDP growth forecasts in the various regions in which the respective CGUs operate.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use.
The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the CGUs.
The approved budget for the following financial year forms the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU.
The cash flow projections in the four financial years following the budget year reflect managements conservative expectations of the medium term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects in the various CGUs markets and regions.
Key assumptions The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the revenue and operating margin growth rates which directly influence the forecasted operating cash flows, as well as the discount rate applied.
In determining the key assumptions, management have taken into account the current economic climate and the resulting impact on expected growth and discount rates.
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to the following key assumptions: i Operating cash flow One of the key drivers of the operating cash flow is revenue.
The 2010 revenue figures for each CGU are based on the 2010 approved budget.
For the years 2011 to 2014, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past experience and the GDP growth prospects.
The average growth rates ranged from 3.5% to 8.4% 2008: 5%.
In all cases it is considered the assumed growth rates are conservative.
The other key driver of the operating cash flow is operating margin.
The assumed weighted average operating margin growth rates, which are considered conservative, ranged from a decline of 3.2% to a growth of 5% 2008: 5% reflecting management assessment of current and future market environment of the sectors and countries in which the CGUs operate.
ii Discount rate applied The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre tax rate that reflects the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rates applied to the CGU were in the range of 10.6% to 14.5% 2008: 10.9%.
Sensitivity Analysis There are no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of each CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
Management has also considered the effect of the following extreme scenarios which management considers the likelihood of any or all occuring is low.
i Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2011 to 2014 from the 2010 budgeted revenues, with margins increasing with base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show sufficiency of headroom with the exception of Minerals which shows a deficit of 6.8m.
ii Assuming 0% growth in operating margins in 2011 to 2014, with revenues increasing per base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show positive headroom.
iii Assuming an increase in the discount rate of 1%, all CGUs continue to show positive headroom.
For Minerals, currently, the price of commodities such as gold, uranium and other strategic metals remains high and this should continue to encourage exploration by the mining companies.
Intertek has the expertise and capacity to take advantage of an upturn in activity.
The Minerals division has reduced costs in 2009 and will concentrate on improving margins in those areas which are underperforming.
In view of this, management believe that on the basis of reasonable assumptions used in the impairment review, there is no impairment in the Minerals CGU.
94 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued In 2008, an impairment charge of 0.5m was recognised within administrative expenses in the Commercial & Electrical division in respect of the goodwill of Intertek Testing and Certification Limited.
This was necessitated by lower than expected trading results.
The goodwill impairment was based on a calculation of the recoverable amount based on value-in-use, using projected cash flows for this business, discounted by a pre-tax rate of 10.9%.
The charge of 0.5m represented the shortfall of the recoverable amount to the carrying value.
The carrying amount of goodwill after the impairment was 5.5m.
There are no intangible assets with indefinite lives.
12 Investment in associates 2009 2008 m m Cost At 1 January 1.1 0.6 Additions 0.1 Disposals 0.8 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.4 At 31 December 0.1 1.1 Share of post-acquisition reserves At 1 January 0.2 Share of profit for the year 0.2 Disposals 0.1 Exchange adjustments At 31 December 0.1 0.2 Net book value at 31 December 0.2 1.3 On 28 October 2009, the Group disposed of its 40% interest in Allium LLC, a company registered in the USA.
The Groups interest in Allium LLC of 0.9m was sold for a consideration of 0.9m.
The loss on sale, adjusted for exchange, was nil.
The net book value at 31 December 2009 was wholly comprised of a 49% interest in Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC, Abu Dhabi.
Summary financial information on associates 100% basis as at 31 December is set out below: Assets Liabilities Equity Revenues Profit loss m m m m m 2009 0.5 0.1 0.4 0.5 2008 14.5 13.1 1.4 23.1 0.4 Excluding goodwill and intangibles of nil 2008: 2.5m.
13 Other investments 2009 2008 m m Available-for-sale financial assets 4.4 The Groups equity investment, listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, was sold on a piecemeal basis during the year for 5.7m.
The profit on disposal of the investment was nil, after an exchange adjustment of 0.2m was realised in the year.
The net change in fair value recycled from reserves was 1.1m, see note 7.
14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Net Net 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m Intangible assets 8.7 10.3 8.7 10.3 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 2.6 1.5 1.8 2.2 0.8 0.7 Pensions 0.4 1.2 0.1 0.3 1.2 Equity-settled transactions 3.2 1.7 3.2 1.7 Interest rate swaps 0.9 1.3 0.9 1.3 Provisions and other temporary differences 16.4 14.6 0.3 0.1 16.1 14.5 Tax value of losses 2.5 1.6 2.5 1.6 Set-off of tax 3.4 6.2 3.4 6.2 Total 22.6 15.7 7.5 6.4 15.1 9.3 www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 95 14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2009 2008 m m Deductible temporary differences 4.8 2.4 Pensions 4.7 4.2 Tax losses 18.1 30.6 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 3.4 8.6 Equity-settled transactions 0.9 Total 31.9 45.8 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits from them.
There is a temporary difference of 11.7m 2008: 9.7m which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings.
No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group and there is no intention to either repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
Recognised 1 January Exchange in income Recognised 31 December 2009 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity 2009 m m m m m m Intangible assets 10.3 0.2 0.4 1.8 8.7 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 0.7 1.5 0.8 Pensions 1.2 0.1 0.8 0.3 Equity-settled transactions 1.7 0.9 0.6 3.2 Interest rate swaps 1.3 0.4 0.9 Provisions and other temporary differences 14.5 1.7 0.4 3.7 16.1 Tax value of losses 1.6 0.1 0.8 2.5 Total 9.3 1.4 0.8 8.6 0.6 15.1 See note 8.
Recognised 1 January Exchange in income Recognised 31 December 2008 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity 2008 m m m m m m Intangible assets 2.5 2.5 3.0 2.3 10.3 Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 2.1 0.5 1.9 0.7 Pensions 2.1 0.1 1.0 1.2 Equity-settled transactions 1.9 0.2 1.7 Interest rate swaps 0.2 1.1 1.3 Provisions and other temporary differences 6.6 3.0 0.1 4.8 14.5 Tax value of losses 0.4 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.6 Total 6.6 0.6 3.3 5.5 0.1 9.3 See note 8.
15 Inventories 2009 2008 m m Raw materials and consumables 6.3 6.6 Work in progress 0.7 1.1 Finished goods 0.6 0.5 Total inventories 7.6 8.2 The amount of inventory recognised as an expense in 2009 was 10.2m 2008: 6.9m.
All inventories are expected to be recovered within 12 months.
The amount of inventory written off in 2009 was nil 2008: nil.
96 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 16 Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Trade receivables 203.7 219.4 Other receivables 25.3 27.0 Prepayments and accrued income 36.9 38.0 Total trade and other receivables 265.9 284.4 Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of 9.9m 2008: 10.0m and are all expected to be recovered within 12 months.
Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of costs of sales was 6.2m 2008: 4.4m.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their short-term duration.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and further details on impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 26.
17 Interest bearing loans and borrowings Current Current Non-current Non-current 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Senior term loans and notes 8.2 14.0 323.7 403.7 Other borrowings 3.7 3.9 Total borrowings 8.2 14.0 327.4 407.6 2009 2008 Analysis of debt m m Debt falling due: In one year or less senior term loans 8.2 14.0 Between one and two years senior term loans 198.5 44.3 Between two and five years senior term loans, notes and 3.4m of other borrowings 19.0 222.0 Over five years senior notes and 0.3m of other borrowings 109.9 141.3 Total borrowings 335.6 421.6 Description of borrowings In December 2004, the Group refinanced its existing 300.0m secured facility with a 300.0m non-secured facility.
In August 2007, an additional 100.0m tranche was added making a total facility of 400.0m.
In June 2008, the Group amended the facility to allow a further 120.0m to be borrowed under the same facility.
Of this 120.0m, 75.0m was committed from three further banks to make a syndicate of 13 banks.
The committed i. e. contractually obligated amount of debt facilities from these 13 banks was 365.1m as at 31 December 2009.
The facility was originally for five years expiring on 15 December 2009, with two one-year extension options to extend this up to a further two years.
The facility was extended by a year in 2005 and by a further year in 2006.
The facility now expires in December 2011.
The facility comprises four tranches.
Facility A is a 14.0m multi-currency term loan, now repaid in full.
Facility B is a 225.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility, available up to 15 December 2011.
Facility C is a 364 day, 48.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility original 80.0m less repayments to 31 December 2009 of 32.0m, with the option to convert this, at any time by written notice, into a term loan expiring 364 days from the date of notice.
This amount has been included in debt falling due in less than one year.
Facility D is a 92.1m multi-currency term loan facility original 100.0m less repayments to 31 December 2009 of 7.9m available up to 15 December 2011.
Advances under the facilities bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or other local currency equivalent, plus a margin.
The margin over LIBOR for facility B is in the range of 0.4% to 0.6% in accordance with a leverage grid.
As at 31 December 2009, the margin was 0.45%.
The margin over LIBOR for facility C is in the range of 1.1% to 1.5% in accordance with a leverage grid.
As at 31 December 2009, the margin was 1.2%.
The margin over LIBOR for facility D is in the range of 0.3% to 0.5% in accordance with a leverage grid.
As at 31 December 2009, the margin was 0.35%.
In June 2008, US$100.0m was raised by way of a senior note issue.
This debt is repayable on 26 June 2015 and the interest rate is fixed at 5.54%.
In December 2008, a further US$100.0m was raised by way of a second senior note issue.
This debt is repayable in two tranches with US$25.0m repayable on 21 January 2014 and the interest rate is fixed at 7.50% and the second US$75.0m repayable on 10 June 2016 and the interest rate is fixed at 8.00%.
The undrawn committed borrowing facilities, which can be drawn down at any time, mature in December 2011 and amounted to 153.2m 2008: 97.8m, having taken into account 5.3m 2008: 8.9m facility for letters of credit.
In January 2010, the Group successfully negotiated a US$60.0m bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Bank of China, London Branch, available up to 25 January 2013. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 97 18 Trade and other payables Current Current Non-current Non-current 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Trade payables 54.4 54.0 Other payables 17.0 20.5 3.6 3.4 Accruals and deferred income 115.5 109.9 Total trade and other payables 186.9 184.4 3.6 3.4 There is 0.5m 2008: 1.8m of contingent consideration included within other payables.
The Groups exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 26.
All trade payables are expected to be paid within 12 months.
19 Provisions Contingent consideration Claims Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2009 11.4 11.6 3.6 26.6 Exchange adjustments 1.2 0.4 1.6 Provided in the year: 8.0 2.8 10.8 in respect of current year acquisitions 6.9 6.9 in respect of prior year acquisitions 4.6 4.6 Released during the year 1.3 0.5 1.8 Utilised during the year 8.9 2.9 2.2 14.0 At 31 December 2009 11.5 15.8 4.2 31.5 Included in: Current liabilities 11.5 15.8 3.0 30.3 Non-current liabilities 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2009 11.5 15.8 4.2 31.5 In addition to the 8.9m, another 1.3m was also paid which was accrued within other payables at 31 December 2008.
Contingent consideration represents the additional amounts payable on acquisitions which are uncertain in amount, since they are based on the acquired businesses achieving agreed future performance targets.
They are expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
From time-to-time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business.
The outcome of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings.
Based on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The provision for claims of 15.8m 2008: 11.6m represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified claims from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs.
The timing of the cash outflow relating to the provisions is uncertain but is likely to be within one year.
Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 28.
The other provision of 4.2m 2008: 3.6m comprises 2.5m 2008: 2.3m for restructuring in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division 2008: integration of the Government services division into the Oil, Chemical & Agri division and 1.7m 2008: 1.3m in relation to onerous contracts.
98 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 20 Capital and reserves Authorised share capital Authorised share capital was abolished under the UK Companies Act 2006 with effect from 1 October 2009 and the necessary amendments to the Companys Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
At 31 December 2008, the authorised ordinary share capital of Intertek Group plc was 2.0m divided into 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each.
At 31 December 2008, the authorised zero coupon redeemable preference shares of Intertek Group plc was 105.5m divided into 105,478,482 preference shares of 1 each.
Issued shared capital 2009 2009 2008 Group and Company Number m m Allotted, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 15 7,805,493 1.6 1.6 Employee share option schemes options exercised note 25 569,428 Deferred Bonus Share Plan note 25 336,288 Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 158,711,209 1.6 1.6 Shares classified in shareholders funds 1.6 1.6 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time-to-time and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company.
During the year, the Company issued 569,428 ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for consideration of 3.6m settled in cash and issued 336,288 shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan for nil consideration.
Preference shareholders have the right to a return of capital on winding up but receive no priority over ordinary shareholders with respect to repayment of capital paid up and have no further rights to participate in the profits or assets of the Company.
The Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee.
The total ESOT costs charged to the Group profits for 2009 were 9,700 2008: 6,500.
The ESOT did not hold any shares of the Company at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired.
Other This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
Dividends 2009 2009 2008 2008 Pence per Pence per m share m share Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 19.2 12.2 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 11.2 7.1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 21.7 13.7 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 13.0 8.2 Dividends paid 34.7 21.9 30.4 19.3 After the balance sheet date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 17.3p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009, which is expected to amount to 27.5m.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the Balance Sheet Date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 18 June 2010. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 99 21 Minority interests 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 16.0 11.6 Exchange adjustments 0.6 3.5 Share of profit for the year 9.0 8.4 Additions 0.7 Purchase of minority interests 0.1 2.1 Dividends paid to minority interests 6.3 6.1 At 31 December 18.0 16.0 On 12 February 2009, the Group acquired an additional 34% interest in Intertek Metering and Measurement Limited IMML formerly known as Rhomax-ITS Limited for 0.6m in cash, increasing its ownership from 66% to 100%.
The total net assets of IMML on the date of acquisition was 0.4m.
The Group recognised a decrease in minority interest of 0.1m and a decrease in retained earnings of 0.5m.
The purchase of minority interests of 2.1m in 2008 relates to the acquisition in November 2008 of the outstanding 15% interest in Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited, a company registered in China for a cash consideration of 1.9m.
The company is now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
22 Commitments At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows: 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m Within one year 32.4 5.0 37.4 29.0 5.6 34.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive 53.9 5.0 58.9 54.1 4.8 58.9 Over five years 29.3 29.3 31.6 31.6 Total 115.6 10.0 125.6 114.7 10.4 125.1 The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in these accounts amounted to 6.4m 2008: 4.7m.
23 Employee benefits Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
In most locations, these are defined contribution arrangements.
However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and one in Hong Kong.
The United Kingdom schemes are the Intertek Pension Scheme and the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme that came into the Group through the acquisition of the Umitek group in January 2007.
These are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
Other funded defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are therefore accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were closed to new entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively.
The Group recognises any actuarial gains and losses in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
a The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was: 2009 2008 m m Defined contribution schemes 17.8 14.4 Defined benefit schemes current service cost 2.0 1.9 Pension cost included in operating profit note 6 19.8 16.3 b The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom was carried out as at 1 April 2007, but this has been updated to 31 December 2009 for IAS 19 purposes.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation of the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme in the UK was also carried out as at 1 April 2007 and this has been updated to 31 December 2009 for IAS 19 purposes.
The last full actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2008, for local accounting purposes but this has been updated to 31 December 2009 for IAS 19 purposes.
100 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 23 Employee benefits continued The Group is currently making additional contributions into the pension schemes with the overall objective of paying off the deficits in line with actuaries recommendations.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Fair value of scheme assets 73.0 58.6 66.6 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 92.5 77.1 73.9 Net liability in the balance sheet 19.5 18.5 7.3 The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 2.0 1.9 Pension interest cost note 7 3.7 3.9 Expected return on scheme assets note 7 3.3 4.1 Total charge 2.4 1.7 The current service cost is included in administrative expenses in the income statement and pension interest cost and expected return on scheme assets are included in net financing costs.
c Changes in the fair value of scheme assets: 2009 2008 m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 58.6 66.6 Expected return on scheme assets 3.3 4.1 Normal contributions by the employer 2.2 1.5 Special contributions by the employer 2.0 3.0 Contributions by scheme participants 0.5 0.6 Benefits paid 3.5 3.0 Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plan 1.8 3.2 Actuarial gains losses 11.7 17.4 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 73.0 58.6 d Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 77.1 73.9 Current service cost 2.0 1.9 Interest cost 3.7 3.9 Contributions by scheme participants 0.5 0.6 Benefits paid 3.5 3.0 Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plan 1.5 4.9 Actuarial losses gains 14.2 5.1 Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 92.5 77.1 e Actuarial losses recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 2009 2008 m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 13.3 1.0 Recognised losses in the year 2.5 12.3 Cumulative loss at 31 December 15.8 13.3 f Company contributions In 2010, the Group expects to make normal contributions of 1.0m 2009: 1.1m to the UK pension schemes and 0.6m 2009: 1.4m to the Hong Kong pension scheme.
Additionally, in February 2010, the Group made a special contribution of 1.2m 2009: 2.0m to the UK pension schemes.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 101 23 Employee benefits continued g Fair value of scheme assets in each category: United Kingdom Hong Kong Schemes Scheme Value of 1 2009 2008 2009 2008 Equities 71% 68% 68% 59% Bonds 24% 28% 31% 39% Cash other 5% 4% 1% 2% h The pension deficit of each scheme at 31 December 2009 was as follows: The Capcis Limited Pension Intertek The Intertek and Life Hong Kong Pension Assurance Retirement Scheme Scheme Scheme Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 55.4 4.7 12.9 73.0 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 72.1 6.0 14.4 92.5 Deficit in schemes 16.7 1.3 1.5 19.5 i Principal actuarial assumptions: United Kingdom Hong Kong Weighted Schemes Scheme average 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.50% 6.00% 2.60% 1.10% 5.00% 4.80% Inflation rate 3.70% 3.00% n a n a 3.70% 3.00% Rate of salary increases 4.20% 3.50% 3.00% 3.00% 4.00% 3.40% Rate of pension increases 3.60% 2.90% n a n a 3.60% 2.90% Annualised expected return on scheme assets 6.83% 5.96% 7.90% 7.30% 7.02% 6.20% The expected rates of return on scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices which take into account the current level of expected returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with equities and the expectation for future returns on such assets.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plans investment portfolio.
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on such assets at the balance sheet date.
A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments.
This is based on an out-performance assumption over gilt yields.
The actual return on scheme assets was as follows: United Kingdom Hong Kong Schemes Scheme 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Actual return 10.9 9.5 4.1 3.8 j Life expectancy assumptions at year end for: United Kingdom Hong Kong Schemes Scheme 2009 2008 2009 2008 Male aged 40 48.5 48.4 n a n a Male aged 65 22.3 22.2 n a n a Female aged 40 51.1 51.0 n a n a Female aged 65 24.7 24.6 n a n a The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions at the point they retire.
Since the amount of the lump sum is not related to the life expectancy of the members, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong scheme.
The table above shows the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at 31 December.
The 2009 mortality tables adopted are the PNA00 projected by year of birth, with an allowance for the medium cohort effect and a minimum improvement of 1% the same tables were used in 2008.
102 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 23 Employee benefits continued k Sensitivity analysis The table below sets out the sensitivity on the pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2009 of the two main assumptions.
Increase decrease Liabilities Assets Deficit in deficit Change in assumptions m m m m No change 92.5 73.0 19.5 0.25% rise in discount rate 88.1 73.0 15.1 4.4 0.25% fall in discount rate 97.1 73.0 24.1 4.6 0.25% rise in inflation 95.0 73.0 22.0 2.5 0.25% fall in inflation 90.0 73.0 17.0 2.5 l History of experience gains and losses: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 73.0 58.6 66.6 56.4 55.0 Defined benefit obligations 92.5 77.1 73.9 71.6 72.8 Deficit 19.5 18.5 7.3 15.2 17.8 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 1.8 0.4 1.5 1.6 0.5 Experience gains losses on scheme assets 11.7 17.4 2.1 1.3 4.3 24 Acquisitions The Group made three acquisitions during the year, all of which were paid for in cash.
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below.
The analysis is provisional and amendments may be made to these figures in the 12 months following the date of each acquisition, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Goodwill 20.4 20.4 Other intangible assets 4.5 4.5 Trade and other receivables 10.6 10.6 Trade and other payables 3.6 3.6 Tax payable 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liability 0.4 0.4 0.8 Net assets acquired 6.3 24.5 30.8 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 23.9 Contingent and deferred consideration note 19 6.9 Total consideration 30.8 Total goodwill additions per note 11 of 24.4m is made up of 20.4m in respect of 2009 acquisitions above and 4.0m in respect of the 2008 acquisitions see note 24 f. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 103 24 Acquisitions continued a WISco Enterprises LP The largest acquisition was the purchase on 13 February 2009, of 100% of the share capital of the WISco group of companies WISco, the largest of which is registered in the USA.
WISco specialises in providing third-party inspection, expediting and coordination services to customers in the oil and gas industry.
Cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, was 20.5m.
Cash acquired within the business was 0.4m.
This acquisition expands the Intertek technical inspection business, providing it with a global platform and network.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment Goodwill 12.4 12.4 Other intangible assets 3.2 3.2 Trade and other receivables 6.2 6.2 Trade and other payables 1.7 1.7 Net assets acquired 4.5 15.6 20.1 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 20.1 Contingent consideration Total consideration 20.1 The goodwill of 12.4m represents the benefit that Intertek expects to gain from leveraging the relationship with WISco customers and gain global contracts for a combined service offering.
The other intangible assets of 3.2m represent the value placed on client relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 12 February 2009 was 0.2m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 is 1.0m.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Aptech Engineering Services, Inc. Aptech a company based in California, USA, on 10 February 2009, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 3.9m and additional consideration of up to 6.9m payable contingent on the achievement of specified profit targets.
Aptech is a full-service engineering consultancy company that specialises in the life management of facilities, equipment, and infrastructure for clients in energyrelated industries.
This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Interteks Industrial Services division.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Goodwill 8.0 8.0 Other intangible assets 1.2 1.2 Trade and other receivables 4.4 4.4 Trade and other payables 1.9 1.9 Tax payable 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liability 0.4 0.4 0.8 Net assets acquired 1.6 8.8 10.4 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 3.5 Contingent consideration 6.9 Total consideration 10.4 The goodwill of 8.0m represents the opportunity for Intertek to enter the US market for risk based inspection and specialist asset integrity services.
The other intangible assets of 1.2m represent value placed on client relationships and the deferred tax thereon was 0.4m.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 9 February 2009 was 0.1m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 is 0.9m.
104 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 24 Acquisitions continued c Other acquisitions The other acquisition was that of the business and assets of Sagentia Catella AB Sagentia.
Sagentia, acquired on 30 April 2009, is an independent testing laboratory based in Sweden providing battery testing, battery forensics and battery application advisory services.
The cash consideration was 0.3m representing acquisition of fixed assets for 0.2m and 0.1m for intangibles relating to the value placed on customer relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 29 April 2009 was 8,000.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 was 30,000. d Acquisition of minority interest On 12 February 2009, the Group acquired an additional 34% interest in Intertek Metering and Measurement Limited IMML formerly known as Rhomax-ITS Limited for 0.6m in cash, increasing its ownership from 66% to 100%.
e Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits The acquisitions made during the year contributed combined revenues of 24.1m and attributable profits of 1.9m to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2009.
The Group revenue and attributable profit for the year ended 31 December 2009 would have been 1,247.0m and 124.0m respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2009. f Details of 2008 acquisitions The Group made 14 acquisitions during 2008, all of which were paid for in cash.
The net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 7.2 2.7 9.9 Goodwill 56.2 56.2 Other intangible assets 18.5 18.5 Inventories and work in progress 1.5 0.2 1.3 Trade and other receivables 8.9 0.2 8.7 Trade and other payables 6.1 1.0 7.1 Tax payable 0.9 0.2 1.1 Deferred tax liability 0.3 3.0 3.3 Net assets acquired 10.3 72.8 83.1 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 67.8 Contingent and deferred consideration 15.3 Total consideration 83.1 The 2008 reported figures have been adjusted for movements in 2009.
Goodwill has been increased by 4.0m, from the previously reported figure of 52.2m to 56.2m as contingent and deferred consideration increased by 3.6m from the previously reported figure of 11.7m to 15.3m and there were 0.4m of fair value adjustments to trade and other payables increasing the previously reported figure of 6.7m to 7.1m.
The 3.6m increase in consideration comprised an additional 4.6m provision offset by a 1.3m release as shown in note 19 and the remaining 0.3m increase is included in trade and other payables note 18.
The other intangible assets of 18.5m represent the value placed on client relationships and certification marks.
The fair value adjustment of 2.7m brings the property, plant and equipment to its approximate market value on acquisition.
The 0.2m relates to impairment provision against inventories and the 0.2m relates to additional allowance for doubtful receivables.
The 1.0m represents additional accruals and liabilities recognised on acquisition.
The 0.2m represents additional tax liabilities recognised and 3.0m relates to deferred tax liability on intangibles.
i The largest acquisition was the purchase on 24 September 2008, of 100% of the share capital of HP White Laboratory Inc, a company incorporated in the USA, which provides ballistic resistance testing of protective equipment and which also tests ammunition and firearms.
This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Interteks Commercial & Electrical division.
Initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, was 20.2m and additional contingent consideration of 1.5m was estimated to be payable at 31 December 2008.
There was an increase of 2.6m to the consideration payable in 2009, of which 0.3m was included in trade and other payables.
This acquisition fits within Interteks Life Safety Services strategy by not only expanding its capability in the personal protective equipment sector but more importantly enabling it to enter the ballistic testing services market.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 105 24 Acquisitions continued Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 1.0 2.8 3.8 Goodwill 13.1 13.1 Other intangible assets 6.5 6.5 Inventories and work in progress 0.6 0.1 0.5 Trade and other receivables 0.6 0.1 0.5 Trade and other payables 0.1 0.1 Net assets acquired 2.1 22.2 24.3 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 20.2 Contingent consideration 4.1 Total consideration 24.3 The goodwill of 13.1m represents the opportunity for Intertek to establish a market leading position in ballistics testing and to become firmly established in the military and defence service sectors.
The other intangible assets of 6.5m represent the value placed on client relationships, accreditations and non-compete agreements.
The fair value adjustment of 2.8m arises from the revaluation of land and buildings based on a professional valuation.
The fair value adjustments in respect of inventories and trade receivables represent impairment provisions against these assets.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 23 September 2008 was 1.1m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2008 was 0.4m.
ii On 9 April 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Hi-Cad Technical Services Ltd Hi-Cad, a company registered in the UK, which provides specialist 3D data capture and measurement services, primarily to customers in the upstream and downstream oil and petroleum industry in the UK and the US.
This acquisition strengthens Interteks Industrial Services division and the development of asset integrity management services.
Consideration paid, inclusive of expenses, was 14.0m and additional contingent consideration of 3.0m is estimated to be payable based on the future performance of Hi-Cad.
Cash acquired within the business was 1.0m.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Goodwill 12.2 12.2 Other intangible assets 4.5 4.5 Inventories and work in progress 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 3.1 3.1 Trade and other payables 2.2 0.3 2.5 Tax payable 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax liability 0.3 1.3 1.6 Net assets acquired 0.9 15.1 16.0 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 13.0 Contingent consideration 3.0 Total consideration 16.0 The goodwill of 12.2m represents the knowledge and expertise of the Hi-Cad workforce and the benefit that Intertek will gain from being able to offer a cohesive vendor assessment and quality inspection service to its customers globally.
The other intangible assets of 4.5m represent the value placed on client relationships, know-how and an exclusive software distributorship.
The fair value adjustment of 0.3m relates to additional accruals.
The deferred tax liability fair value adjustment of 1.3m arises on intangibles.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 8 April 2008 was 0.2m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2008 was 0.9m.
106 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 24 Acquisitions continued iii On 13 February 2008, the Group acquired 100% of CML Biotech Ltd CML, a UK registered holding company for the Commercial Microbiology Group, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 8.3m.
Additional contingent consideration of 1.4m was estimated to be payable at 31 December 2008 based on the future performance of CML but was reduced by 0.2m in 2009.
CML provides laboratory and consultancy services and sells testing kits related to the measurement and management of bacteria in the upstream oil and gas industries.
This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Interteks Analytical Services division.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 Goodwill 7.0 7.0 Other intangible assets 1.9 1.9 Inventories and work in progress 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 1.4 1.4 Trade and other payables 0.9 0.9 Tax payable 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax liability 0.5 0.5 Net assets acquired 1.4 8.1 9.5 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 8.3 Contingent consideration 1.2 Total consideration 9.5 The goodwill of 7.0m represents the knowledge and expertise of the CML workforce and the benefit that Intertek will obtain from expanding the suite of expert services that the Group can deliver as a partner to the oil and gas exploration industries globally.
The other intangible assets of 1.9m represent value placed on client relationships.
The fair value tax adjustment of 0.3m relates to a provision for additional tax liabilities.
The deferred tax liability fair value adjustment of 0.5m arises on intangibles.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 12 February 2008 was 0.1m.
iv On 4 April 2008, the Group acquired 100% of 4-Front Research Limited, a holding company of a group of companies registered in the UK, France and India.
Cash consideration paid, inclusive of expenses, was 7.3m and cash acquired within the business was 0.9m.
Additional contingent consideration of 2.3m was estimated to be payable at 31 December 2008 based on the future performance of 4-Front Research.
This was increased by 1.5m in 2009.
4-Front Research provides analytical support for clinical research studies on cosmetic, personal care, functional food and over-the-counter pharmaceutical and medical products.
With seven sites in England and sites in Hyderabad, India and Paris, France, 4-Front will form part of Interteks Consumer Goods division.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 Goodwill 8.2 8.2 Other intangible assets 1.7 1.7 Inventories and work in progress 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 0.7 0.7 Trade and other payables 0.5 0.2 0.7 Tax payable 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax liability 0.5 0.5 Net assets acquired 1.0 9.2 10.2 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 6.4 Contingent consideration 3.8 Total consideration 10.2 www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 107 24 Acquisitions continued The goodwill of 8.2m represents the additional value that Intertek will gain from adding new high-value services to support its consumer healthcare customers and from having a strategic position in the developing market for consumer healthcare products in India and other Asian countries.
The other intangible assets of 1.7m represent value placed on client relationships.
The fair value adjustment of 0.2m relates to additional accruals.
The deferred tax liability of 0.5m arises on intangibles.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 3 April 2008 was 0.1m.
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2008 was 0.3m.
v The other 10 acquisitions during the year were as follows: Electrical Mechanical Instrument Services UK Ltd EMIS, a UK registered company, was 100% acquired on 3 January 2008, for consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 1.2m.
EMIS provides calibration services to the oil and gas industries in the UK and the Middle East.
Epsilon Technical Services Ltd, a UK registered company was 100% acquired on 5 February 2008, for initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 2.1m.
No contingent consideration is expected to be payable.
Epsilon provides safety and advisory services to companies with products for use in potentially explosive atmospheres.
Bioclin Research Laboratories Ltd, a company registered in the Republic of Ireland, was 100% acquired on 8 February 2008, for initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 2.8m.
Additional contingent consideration of 0.6m was estimated to be payable based on Bioclins performance in 2008.
An additional 0.2m consideration became payable in 2009.
Bioclin provides product quality testing and bio-analytical services to pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, in Ireland and internationally.
The Limburg Water Board of The Netherlands outsourced all laboratory activities of Waterschapsbedrijf Limburg to Intertek with effect from 3 March 2008, for a minimum period of five years and transferred employees to Intertek.
Total consideration, inclusive of expenses, was 1.6m.
Intertek will provide extended analytical testing and consultancy services in the areas of environmental science, regulation and complex analysis of silt, soil and water.
100% of a company registered in the Philippines, was acquired on 2 April 2008, for cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 3.0m.
Cash acquired within the business was 0.2m.
This company operates the largest commercial assay laboratory in the Philippines and offers geophysical surveys and inspection services to the minerals industries.
Applica GmbH, a food testing company, based in Germany was 100% acquired on 15 July 2008, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 3.1m and a contingent consideration of 0.6m payable in March 2009 dependent on financial performance.
Cash acquired within the business was 0.3m.
Transworld Laboratories Ghana Limited, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ghana, was 100% acquired on 24 October 2008, for a cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 2.2m.
The company provides analytical testing services to the minerals and exploration industry.
An additional fair value adjustment of 0.4m was made in 2009 being recognition of additional accruals and liabilities.
z. o. o, a company registered in Poland was 100% acquired on 27 November 2008, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 2.1m and a contingent consideration of 1.4m dependent on future financial performance.
The company provides testing services for the food, pharmaceutical and cosmetics industry.
The assets and the audit and inspection business of RQA, operating in the food industry in the USA, was acquired on 30 December 2008, for an initial cash consideration of 0.9m and a contingent consideration of 0.9m based on future financial performance.
In 2009, after exchange adjustment, there was a reduction in consideration payable of 1.1m.
Porst & Partner GmbH, a company registered in Germany, was 100% acquired on 31 December 2008, for a cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of 2.2m.
An additional consideration of 0.6m became payable in 2009.
The company provides chemical analysis of harmful substances in leather, textiles, toys and hard goods.
108 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 24 Acquisitions continued The table below sets out the analysis of the net assets acquired and the fair value to the Group in respect of the ten acquisitions described above.
Book value Fair value to prior to Fair value Group on acquisition adjustments acquisition m m m Property, plant and equipment 4.5 0.1 4.4 Goodwill 15.7 15.7 Other intangible assets 3.9 3.9 Inventories and work in progress 0.3 0.1 0.2 Trade and other receivables 3.1 0.1 3.0 Trade and other payables 2.4 0.5 2.9 Tax payable 0.6 0.1 0.5 Deferred tax liability 0.7 0.7 Net assets acquired 4.9 18.2 23.1 Cash outflow net of cash acquired 19.9 Contingent consideration 3.2 Total consideration 23.1 The other intangible assets of 3.9m represent 2.8m for the value attributable to client relationships, 0.9m for guaranteed income and 0.2m for know-how.
The other significant fair value adjustment of 0.7m relates to the deferred tax liability arising on the intangibles.
The goodwill of 15.7m arises as follows: m EMIS 0.4 Epsilon 1.8 Bioclin 2.3 Waterschapsbedrijf Limburg Minerals company in the Philippines 2.0 Applica 2.1 Transworld 2.4 Eko-Lab 2.7 RQA Porst & Partner 2.0 Total 15.7 No goodwill arose on these acquisitions.
The goodwill of 15.7m represents the value to the Group of acquiring presence and increasing penetration in industry sectors and countries, value of the highly skilled workforce and the economies of scale gained by integrating these businesses.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to the respective dates of purchase for these acquisitions was 1.3m.
The profit attributable to the Group from these acquisitions from their respective dates of purchase to 31 December 2008 was 0.8m.
vi All the acquisitions made during the year contributed revenues of 26.0m and profits of 2.8m to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2008.
The Group revenue and profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 would have been 1,019.8m and 105.9m respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2008. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 109 25 Share schemes a Share option schemes The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997.
The maximum number of options that can be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued.
In May 2002, the Intertek Group plc 2002 Share Option Plan the 2002 Plan and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan the Approved Plan were established for employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
These plans have also been discontinued and the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005. i The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number exercise Number price of options price of options At beginning of year 642p 1,392,623 654p 2,026,004 Exercised 634p 569,428 632p 405,884 Forfeited 773p 9,738 768p 227,497 Outstanding options at end of year 646p 813,457 642p 1,392,623 Exercisable at end of year 646p 813,457 642p 1,392,623 The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 1,040p 2008: 971p.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 359p to 778p and a weighted average contractual life of 4.7 years.
ii The outstanding options at 31 December 2009 are exercisable as follows: Number of options Exercise Option Scheme outstanding Price per share Exercisable between 2002 Plan 56,495 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012 51,003 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013 10,231 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013 178,011 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014 6,108 607p 14 September 2007 14 September 2014 420,606 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015 5,525 711p 13 September 2008 13 September 2015 727,979 Approved Plan 6,371 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012 1,894 380p 17 July 2005 17 July 2012 17,484 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013 262 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013 23,069 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014 1,000 607p 14 September 2007 14 September 2014 34,548 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015 850 711p 13 September 2008 13 September 2015 85,478 Total 813,457 110 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 25 Share schemes continued b Deferred Bonus Share Plan As explained in the Remuneration Report on page 56, deferred and matching shares are awarded under this plan.
The first awards were granted on 7 April 2006.
The awards under this plan vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of the performance conditions.
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Deferred Matching Total Deferred Matching Total shares shares shares shares shares shares At beginning of year 866,571 535,056 1,401,627 490,126 273,028 763,154 Granted 784,098 513,240 1,297,338 427,876 262,028 689,904 Vested 220,907 115,381 336,288 9,400 9,400 Forfeited 72,807 62,352 135,159 42,031 42,031 Outstanding share awards at end of year 1,356,955 870,563 2,227,518 866,571 535,056 1,401,627 Details of the share option schemes and the Deferred Bonus Share Plan are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 and 57. c Equity-settled transactions In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for shares and share options granted to employees, is measured by reference to the fair value of shares and share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Monte Carlo formula, a financial model used to calculate the fair value of shares and share options.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group recognised an expense of 4.9m 2008: 3.3m in respect of outstanding share and share option awards granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
The fair values and the assumptions used in their calculations are set out below: Share awards Deferred Matching Deferred Matching Deferred Matching Deferred Matching shares shares shares shares shares shares shares shares 10 Mar 10 Mar 2009 & 2009 & 7 April 7 April 10 April 10 April 11 Mar 11 Mar 2 April 2 April Date of shares awarded 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 Fair value at measurement date pence 795.9 435.0 887.6 498.8 906.9 619.8 839.3 697.8 Share price pence 827.6 827.6 931.0 931.0 959.5 959.5 899.5 899.5 Expected volatility n a 21.6% n a 21.4% n a 22.8% n a 29.1% Dividend yield 1.4% 1.4% 1.6% 1.6% 1.9% 1.9% 2.3% 2.3% Risk free interest rate n a 4.4% n a 5.4% n a 3.9% n a 1.8% Time to maturity years 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The deferred and matching shares, under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, are granted under a service condition.
Such condition is not taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
The matching shares, under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, are granted also under a performance related market condition and as a result this condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
26 Financial instruments Details of the Groups treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, interest rate and currency risk are set out in the Directors Report Financial Review on page 38 and Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 38 to 41. a Credit risk i Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Available-for-sale financial assets 4.4 Trade receivables, net of allowance 203.7 219.4 Cash and cash equivalents 134.2 113.3 Total 337.9 337.1 www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 111 26 Financial instruments continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Americas 73.9 77.8 Europe, Middle East and Africa 71.8 75.3 Asia Pacific 58.0 66.3 Total 203.7 219.4 ii Impairment losses The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Under 3 months 173.5 188.3 Between 3 and 6 months 22.7 24.6 Between 6 and 12 months 10.8 10.5 Over 12 months 6.6 6.0 Gross trade receivables 213.6 229.4 Allowance for impairment 9.9 10.0 Trade receivables, net of allowance 203.7 219.4 Included in trade receivables under three months of 173.5m 2008: 188.3m are trade receivables of 101.1m 2008: 104.0m which are not yet due for payment under the Groups standard terms and conditions of sale.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 10.0 6.4 Exchange differences 0.6 1.6 Cash recovered 0.4 0.1 Impairment loss recognised 6.2 4.4 Receivables written off 5.3 2.3 At 31 December 9.9 10.0 There were no significant individual impairments of trade receivables.
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
The Group assesses periodically the creditworthiness of customers.
The Groups credit risk is diversified due to the large number of entities that make up the Groups customer base and the diversification across many different industries and geographic regions.
Allowance for impairment is based on the risk profile of the trade receivable based on the likelihood of the amount being recovered.
Based on historic default rates, reflecting the track record of payments by the Groups customers, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific circumstances such as the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable.
The Group provides fully for all trade receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable.
Where recovery is in doubt, a provision is made against the specific trade receivable until such time as the Group believes the amount to be irrecoverable.
At that time the trade receivable is written off.
iii Counterparty Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties who have sound credit ratings.
Given this, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
112 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 26 Financial instruments continued b Liquidity risk The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups senior term loans and notes at 31 December 2009.
Carrying 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 amount Liabilities 2009 m m m m m m Floating rate USD 8.2 78.3 86.5 Average interest rate 1.4% 0.8% Fixed rate USD 15.6 109.6 125.2 Average interest rate 7.5% 6.6% Floating rate GBP 94.0 94.0 Average interest rate 0.9% Floating rate AUD 26.2 26.2 Average interest rate 4.4% Total 8.2 198.5 15.6 109.6 331.9 Of the other borrowings of 3.7m 2008 3.9m, 3.4m 2008: 3.6m relates to a variable rate loan denominated in Australian dollars with a contractual maturity of November 2013 and 0.3m 2008: 0.3m relates to a fixed rate loan of 7.49% denominated in Australian dollars with a contractual maturity of November 2027.
The current variable rate on the loan is 4.6% 2008: 6.2%.
The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups senior term loans at 31 December 2008.
Carrying 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 amount Liabilities 2008 m m m m m m Floating rate USD 30.2 99.2 129.4 Average interest rate 3.2% 3.4% Fixed rate USD 137.4 137.4 Average interest rate 6.7% Floating rate HKD 14.1 22.2 36.3 Average interest rate 3.2% 2.2% Floating rate SEK 16.0 16.0 Average interest rate 2.7% Floating rate GBP 14.0 38.0 52.0 Average interest rate 2.9% 3.3% Floating rate EUR 35.2 35.2 Average interest rate 3.5% Floating rate JPY 11.4 11.4 Average interest rate 1.3% Total 14.0 44.3 222.0 137.4 417.7 www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 113 26 Financial instruments continued The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities including interest: Carrying Contractual Six months More than amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 2009 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Senior term loans and notes 331.9 385.5 5.6 13.7 209.5 39.7 117.0 Other loans 3.7 4.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.6 0.5 Trade payables 54.4 54.4 54.4 390.0 444.4 60.1 13.8 209.7 43.3 117.5 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 Forward exchange contracts: Outflow 28.4 28.4 Inflow 28.4 28.4 3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 Total 393.0 447.4 61.3 15.0 210.3 43.3 117.5 Carrying Contractual Six months More than amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 2008 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Senior term loans and notes 417.7 507.6 16.0 16.0 61.9 256.6 157.1 Other loans 3.9 5.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.7 4.1 Trade payables 54.0 54.0 54.0 475.6 566.8 70.1 16.1 62.1 257.3 161.2 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 4.5 5.3 1.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 Forward exchange contracts: Outflow 17.5 17.5 Inflow 17.5 17.5 4.5 5.3 1.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 Total 480.1 572.1 71.3 17.6 64.0 258.0 161.2 Cash flow hedges The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and expected to impact the profit or loss.
Interest rate swaps used for hedging liabilities Carrying Expected Six months More than amount cash outflows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years m m m m m m m 2009 3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 2008 4.5 5.3 1.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 114 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 26 Financial instruments continued c Interest rate risk i Hedging The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 33% and 67% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed rate basis.
Interest rate swaps denominated in various currencies and an interest rate cap have been entered into to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate exposure within the Groups policy.
The swaps mature over the next two years and have fixed swap rates ranging from 1.1% to 4.8%.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had interest rate swaps with a notional contract amount of 88.5m 2008: 136.6m and an interest rate cap with a notional value of nil 2008: 19.6m.
The Group designates interest rate swaps as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The net fair value of swaps at 31 December 2009, was 3.0m 2008: swaps and caps 4.5m comprising liabilities of 3.0m 2008: 4.5m.
These amounts were recognised as fair value derivatives.
Under the interest rate swap agreements, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
ii Profile The information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings is shown in section b liquidity risk.
The interest rate profile of the Groups short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2009 is set out below: Total carrying Effective At floating amount and interest rates interest rates Interest free fair value Assets 2009 m m m Short-term deposits and cash : Sterling 0.4% 5.2 0.7 5.9 US dollar 0.2% 31.7 3.6 35.3 Chinese renminbi 0.5% 41.5 41.5 Hong Kong dollar 0.1% 6.7 0.4 7.1 Euro 0.3% 7.7 1.3 9.0 Other currencies Various 16.1 19.3 35.4 Total cash and cash equivalents 108.9 25.3 134.2 Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
The interest rate profile of the Groups short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2008 was as follows: Total carrying Effective At floating amount and interest rates interest rates Interest free fair value Assets 2008 m m m Short-term deposits and cash : Sterling 1.0% 5.7 0.5 6.2 US dollar 0.3% 22.0 1.9 23.9 Chinese renminbi 1.5% 33.5 0.7 34.2 Hong Kong dollar 0.3% 4.3 0.1 4.4 Euro 1.5% 8.5 1.2 9.7 Other currencies Various 29.4 5.5 34.9 Total cash and cash equivalents 103.4 9.9 113.3 Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
iii Sensitivity At 31 December 2009, it is estimated that a general increase of 3% in interest rates would decrease the Groups profit before tax by approximately 0.5m 2008: 2.6m.
Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation.
This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 115 26 Financial instruments continued d Foreign currency risk The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Groups shareholders funds and a substantial percentage of the Groups revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling.
Because of the high proportion of international activity, the Groups profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
Two types of risk arise as a result: i translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities into sterling and ii transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the value of the Groups commercial cash flows in various currencies.
i Profile The foreign currency profile of the trade receivables and payables at the balance sheet date were as follows: Carrying US Chinese Hong Kong Other amount Sterling dollar renminbi dollar Euro currencies 2009 m m m m m m m Trade receivables 203.7 25.4 60.9 19.4 8.9 28.0 61.1 Trade payables 54.4 7.2 13.1 11.5 3.5 6.4 12.7 2008 Trade receivables 219.4 26.4 64.8 23.8 11.7 30.5 62.2 Trade payables 54.0 7.7 12.8 11.0 4.1 7.7 10.7 ii Recognised assets and liabilities Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement.
At 31 December 2009, the fair value of forward exchange contracts was nil 2008: nil.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries The Groups foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Groups investment in its respective subsidiaries.
The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2009 was 237.9m 2008: 365.7m.
A foreign exchange gain of 27.2m 2008: loss of 110.9m was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these loans to sterling.
iv Sensitivity It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar the main currency impacting the Group would have decreased the Groups profit before tax for 2009 by approximately 15.8m 2008: 10.8m.
A 10% increase has been used to reflect the degree of volatility in the exchange rate in recent months.
The forward exchange contracts have been included in this calculation.
e Fair values The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Groups financial instruments by class.
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 134.2 134.2 113.3 113.3 Trade receivables 203.7 203.7 219.4 219.4 Available-for-sale asset 4.4 4.4 337.9 337.9 337.1 337.1 Financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 335.6 349.8 421.6 414.3 Interest rate swaps used for hedging 3.0 3.0 4.5 4.5 Trade payables 54.4 54.4 54.0 54.0 393.0 407.2 480.1 472.8 116 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 26 Financial instruments continued f Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: s, EVEL QUOTED PRICES UNADJUSTED IN ACTIVE MARKETS FOR IDENTICAL ASSETS OR LIABILITIES s, EVEL INPUTS OTHER THAN QUOTED PRICES INCLUDED WITHIN, EVEL THAT ARE OBSERVABLE FOR THE ASSET OR LIABILITY EITHER DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY s, EVEL INPUTS FOR THE ASSET OR LIABILITY THAT ARE NOT BASED ON OBSERVABLE MARKET DATA UNOBSERVABLE INPUTS Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities 31 December 2009 m m m m Interest rate swaps used for hedging 3.0 3.0 Total 3.0 3.0 Total assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities 31 December 2008 m m m m Available-for-sale financial asset 4.4 4.4 Interest rate swaps and caps used for hedging 4.5 4.5 Total 4.4 4.5 0.1 The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of the Groups financial instruments are summarised below.
i Interest rate swaps and caps used for hedging Bank valuations are used to estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps and caps used for hedging.
Valuations are tested by considering the equivalent swap and cap rate as at 31 December and calculating the difference in interest earned at this rate compared to the original swap and cap rates.
ii Forward exchange contracts The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their quoted market price, if available.
If a quoted market price is not available, the fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate.
iii Interest bearing loans and borrowings The fair value of the floating interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the floating interest rates were reset just prior to the year end.
The fair value of the fixed interest bearing loans and borrowings has been calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate at the reporting date.
iv Trade receivables and payables For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All others are estimated as the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
v Available-for-sale financial assets The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to their quoted closing bid price at the reporting date.
vi Interest rates used for determining fair value Prevailing market interest rates at the reporting date are used to discount future cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
27 Analysis of net debt 1 January Exchange 31 December 2009 Cash flow adjustments 2009 m m m m Cash 113.3 27.0 6.1 134.2 Borrowings 421.6 58.7 27.3 335.6 Total net debt 308.3 85.7 21.2 201.4 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk, currency risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 26. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 117 28 Contingent liabilities 2009 2008 m m Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 5.8 8.9 Litigation From time to time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing and disputes with employees and former employees.
The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business.
The outcome of litigation to which the Intertek Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen as in some cases the facts are unclear or further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case.
However, based on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
Tax The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations.
At any point in time it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities.
Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the financial statements.
29 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its associates see note 31 and with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not discussed in this note.
Transactions with associates As stated in note 12, the Group holds a 49% interest in the associate Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC Abu Dhabi, a company registered in the United Arab Emirates.
The Group disposed of its 40% interest in the associate, Allium LLC, a company registered in the US on 28 October 2009.
Allium LLC and its subsidiaries manufacture testing equipment which it sells to certain Intertek Group companies.
In 2009 up to the date of sale on 28 October, sales by Allium Group companies to Intertek Group companies amounted to 0.3m 2008: 0.6m.
Intertek Group companies had lent dollar equivalent nil to Allium LLC as at 31 December 2009 2008: 1.9m.
Interest on these loans was charged during 2009 up to the date of disposal at an average rate of 5.2% 2008: 5.6%.
Intertek Group companies owed nil at 31 December 2009 2008: 0.1m to Allium LLC in respect of purchases of testing equipment.
Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC Abu Dhabi provides calibration services to the oil industry.
This company had no material transactions with Intertek Group companies in the year.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel compensation, including the Groups Executive Directors, is shown in the table below: 2009 2008 m m Short-term benefits 5.6 5.1 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3 Equity-settled transactions 1.5 1.5 Total 7.4 6.9 More detailed information concerning Directors remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
118 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the financial statements 30 Post balance sheet events a In January 2010, the Group successfully negotiated a US$60.0m bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Bank of China, London Branch, available up to 25 January 2013. b At a Board meeting on 8 March 2010, the Directors proposed a dividend of 17.3p per ordinary share, which if approved, is payable to shareholders on 18 June 2010.
31 Principal operating subsidiaries and associated companies The Group comprises 219 subsidiary companies and one associated company.
As permitted by Section 410 1 of the Companies Act 2006, only the holding companies and the principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures of the Group in 2009 and 2008 have been shown below.
A full list of subsidiaries will be attached to the Companys Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
All the subsidiaries were consolidated at 31 December 2009.
Percentage of ordinary shares held in 2009 and 2008 Company name Country of incorporation Activity by division Group Company Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100 Intertek Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100 Intertek Testing Services UK Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 Intertek Finance plc England and Wales Finance 100 Intertek Testing Management Limited England and Wales Management company 100 Intertek International Limited England and Wales OCA, IS 100 ITS Testing Services UK Limited England and Wales OCA, AS 100 ITS Testing Holdings Canada Limited Canada Holding company 100 Intertek Testing Services Limited Shanghai China CG, C&E, OCA, IS, M 85 Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited China CG, C&E, IS 100 Testing Holdings France EURL France Holding company 100 Testing Holdings Germany GmbH Germany Holding company 100 ITS Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong CG, C&E, OCA, IS 100 Yickson Enterprises Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100 Intertek Testing Services Taiwan Limited Taiwan CG, C&E, OCA 100 Intertek Holdings Nederland BV Netherlands Holding company 100 Testing Holdings Sweden AB Sweden Holding company 100 Semko AB Sweden C&E 100 ITS NA Inc USA C&E, IS 100 Intertek USA Inc USA OCA, AS, IS 100 Testing Holdings USA Inc USA Holding company 100 Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Ltd Australia M 100 Percentage of shares held in 2009 and 2008 Associates Country of incorporation Principal activity by division Group Company Allium LLC USA CG EMIS, Abu Dhabi acquired 2008 United Arab Emirates OCA 49 Consumer Goods CG, Commercial & Electrical C&E, Oil, Chemical & Agri OCA, Analytical Services AS, Industrial Services IS and Minerals M. In 2009, the Group disposed of the 40% ownership of Allium LLC.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 119 Intertek Group plc Company Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Notes m m Fixed assets Investments in subsidiary undertakings d 289.6 284.7 Current assets Debtors due after more than one year e 20.6 8.8 Debtors due within one year f 0.8 1.5 21.4 10.3 Cash at bank and in hand 0.8 0.3 22.2 10.6 Creditors due within one year Other creditors g 0.3 3.2 Net current assets 21.9 7.4 Total assets less current liabilities 311.5 292.1 Creditors due after more than one year Other creditors h 0.1 4.2 Net assets 311.4 287.9 Capital and reserves Called up share capital i 1.6 1.6 Share premium i 253.5 249.9 Profit and loss account i 56.3 36.4 Shareholders funds 311.4 287.9 The financial statements on pages 119 to 122 were approved by the Board on 8 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: Wolfhart Hauser Bill Spencer Director Director
