120 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Company financial statements a Accounting policies Company The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated accounts which it has prepared.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders funds are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany financial guarantees When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 121 a Accounting policies Company continued Share-based payments Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
In order to encourage share ownership, a share option scheme for senior management was established in March 1997.
This option programme was discontinued in 2006 and was replaced by a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
The fair value of options and share awards granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the corresponding increase in equity.
However, the Company grants options and awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and therefore the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries, equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiarys financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value granted is measured using the Monte Carlo model.
This method, in calculating the fair value, takes into account various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan is also measured using the Monte Carlo model and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
See note 25 in the Group financial statements for further information on the share schemes.
b Profit and loss account Amounts paid to the Companys auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
c Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2009 2008 m m Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 21.7 19.2 Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 13.0 11.2 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 34.7 30.4 The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2009 is nil 2008: nil.
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2009 is 27.5m 2008: 21.7m.
d Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2009 2008 m m Cost and net book value At 1 January 284.7 280.9 Additions 0.5 Additions due to share-based payments 4.9 3.3 At 31 December 289.6 284.7 The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of 4.9m 2008: 3.3m.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
The Company had three direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2009.
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
The company also owns a segregated account in the insurance captive of the Group, Leeward Insurance Company Limited which is registered in Bermuda.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are wholly owned.
In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
122 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Company financial statements e Debtors due after more than one year 2009 2008 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 20.6 8.8 The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing currency.
f Debtors due within one year 2009 2008 m m Corporation tax 0.4 0.4 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 0.4 1.1 0.8 1.5 g Creditors due within one year 2009 2008 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.1 3.0 Accruals and deferred income 0.2 0.2 0.3 3.2 h Creditors due after more than one year 2009 2008 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.1 4.2 The amounts owed to Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing currency.
i Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Share Share Profit capital premium and loss Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 1.6 247.3 31.4 280.3 Profit for the financial year 32.1 32.1 Dividends paid 30.4 30.4 Credit in relation to share-based payments 3.3 3.3 Shares issued 2.6 2.6 At 31 December 2008 1.6 249.9 36.4 287.9 Profit for the financial year 49.7 49.7 Dividends paid 34.7 34.7 Credit in relation to share-based payments 4.9 4.9 Shares issued 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2009 1.6 253.5 56.3 311.4 Details of share capital are set out in note 20 and details of share options are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of 34.7m 2008: 30.4m was 49.7m 2008: 32.1m which was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
j Related party transactions Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 of the Group financial statements.
k Contingent liabilities The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement.
This is a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the pool which was 11.4m at 31 December 2009 2008: 17.7m.
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of subsidiary undertakings.
