Invensys Operations Management Process Systems Developments During the year, we made significant investments in sales % % and marketing in order to differentiate ourselves from our change total competitors by strengthening our ability to sell high value Year ended 31 March 2009 2008 at CER change solutions to our customers.
Many of our solution offerings Orders m 1,187 870 19% 36% enable customers to improve the efficiency and financial Revenue m 951 830 1% 15% performance of their operations.
The benefits of this Operating profit m 108 117 20% 8% investment are reflected in the increase in order intake Operating margin % 11.4% 14.1% for the year.
Operating cash flow m 121 103 2% 17% With the decline in Europe, we are realigning our capacity Operating cash conversion % 112% 88% in that market and increasing it in emerging markets.
This, Employees at year end nos 7,870 7,795 together with other actions, resulted in a restructuring charge in the year of 17 million, which is expected to provide a compelling financial return.
A F F A B We achieved considerable success in gaining large project E orders around the world, as we gained benefits from the recent E investment in sales and marketing.
B D D We signed a five year contract to provide comprehensive C safety services and solutions to Petrobras, the Brazilian C international energy company.
We have been providing products and services to Petrobras for more than 50 years.
Under the terms of this contract, we will implement our Revenue by sector Revenue by geography A General industries 21% A UK 2% Triconex safety and critical controls and Avantis asset B Oil and gas upstream 19% B Rest of Europe 23% management technology to upgrade and modernise C Oil and gas downstream 19% C North America 36% 11 Petrobras refining facilities throughout Brazil.
D Utilities and power 14% D South America 6% We signed a contract with Qatargas, one of the worlds E Petrochemicals 12% E Asia Pacic 22% major producers of LNG, to complete a major automation F Other 15% F Africa Middle East 11% upgrade at the Qatar Gas 1 facility in the Qatar Ras Laffan Industrial City.
The upgrade will give Qatargas improved Process Systems designs, manufactures, installs, tests and compatibility between different generations of system commissions software and computer-based hardware components at Qatar Gas 1, as well as extend the lifecycle for the automation and regulation of operations, of the overall control system there.
the management of certain administrative functions We are supplying simulation software and other products of manufacturing businesses, and simulations of from our Process Engineering Suite PES of solutions to manufacturing process operations.
It delivers solutions help design second-generation biofuels processes for and consultancy services which improve the productivity Novus Energy, LLC, a Minnesota-based renewable fuels and safety of customers plants.
PES is an integrated suite of software which readily interfaces with other applications Markets commonly used by process engineers, thus enhancing Despite the current global economic climate, many of our productivity in the plant lifecycle.
major end markets, particularly in the oil and gas, refining and We won a 127 million contract to develop and implement power sectors, have shown resilience.
We have seen some four large-scale, fully digitised nuclear control rooms, delays in the award of contracts for some greenfield projects, equipped with the latest simulation technologies, critical often caused by retendering by main contractors so that control and safety systems for two new nuclear power customers gain the benefit of reduced commodity prices.
In a drive to reduce carbon dioxide However, the long-term nature of investment decisions within emissions and its reliance on coal-generated power, China these sectors and the needs of customers to improve the has raised the target for nuclear capacity in its power mix efficiency of existing plants using our advanced applications to 5% by 2020. and solutions such as SimSci-Esscor and InFusion have meant Also in the nuclear sector, we won a contract with the that the impact upon our project business has been limited.
state-owned Taiwan Power Company to provide critical We have seen some weakness in demand and pricing pressure upgrades to the Kuosheng Nuclear Power Plant NPP in within the measurement and instrumentation product sector.
northern Taiwan, including the replacement and upgrade of obsolete analogue-based recirculation water control Regionally, there has been continued strength in the Middle systems with digital systems.
The upgrades allow Kuosheng East and South America, driven by demand for solutions and NPP to significantly improve plant availability.
services from the oil and gas sector.
In the North America market, we have seen increased demand for upgrades and The acquisition by Wonderware of SAT Corporation, a efficiency improvements.
The level of investment in new Houston-based mobile solutions company, for a cash facilities in Asia Pacific was generally strong, including the consideration of 30 million was completed on 21 August 2008 Chinese nuclear power generating market, but there was a and has been integrated into Wonderwares product offerings slowdown in demand within Europe and Africa, with delays on a global basis.
The IntelaTrac Enterprise Suite provides on investment decisions caused by the weakening economy.
configurable hardware and software solutions that enable 18 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 remote workflow, procedural and general task management Eurotherm provides control, data and measurement within industrial plants, typically focussed around asset instrumentation products, solutions and services to maintenance and compliance applications.
manage specific parameters of the manufacturing process, such as temperature and pressure, for the Performance global industrial control and process markets.
Eurotherm Order intake increased by 19% at CER to 1,187 million 2008: has global expertise in many industrial markets with 870 million, including a number of longer-term solutions dedicated specialists in key areas including life sciences, orders.
This reflected the benefit of the increased investment glass manufacturing, plastics, renewable energy and the of 14 million made into sales and marketing as well as heat treatment of metals for industries such as avionics our continued investment in research and development.
Orders grew in all regions and in addition there was a good improvement in the size of the pipeline of order prospects.
Markets Our markets, particularly in Western Europe and North Revenue in the period was down 1% at CER at 951 million America, have been affected by the economic downturn, with 2008: 830 million with reduced product revenue offset by a significant deterioration in demand during the second half a good performance in the Middle East.
This was seen across many sectors as customers, particularly those directly exposed to the consumer, cut capital Operating profit was down 20% at CER at 108 million and maintenance expenditure in the face of significant volume 2008: 117 million due mainly to the significantly increased reductions in their businesses.
Operating margin was 11.4% 2008: 14.1% with a good improvement in the second half Developments of the year.
Operating cash flow was 121 million 2008: During the year, we launched EPower, a new range of 103 million, resulting in a further improvement in cash multiphase power controllers which improve the efficiency conversion for the year to 112% 2008: 88%.
of power consumption within a manufacturing plant.
Initial installations are demonstrating up to 5% improvements in Eurotherm energy efficiency and we expect sales of this product to grow with the increased potential customer base within % % Invensys Operations Management.
Also we are enhancing the change total Eurotherm distributed control system DCS product so that it Year ended 31 March 2009 2008 at CER change can address the middle range market in which we currently do Orders m 116 119 13% 3% not have a significant presence.
This development will enable Revenue m 118 115 10% 3% Invensys Operations Management to provide customers with Operating profit m 4 9 62% 56% the entire DCS spectrum.
Operating margin % 3.4% 7.8% Performance Operating cash flow m 10 7 37% 43% Orders were down 13% at CER at 116 million 2008: Operating cash conversion % 250% 78% 119 million.
Revenue was down 10% at CER at 118 million Employees at year end nos 991 1,147 2008: 115 million, mainly due to significantly reduced product revenue.
F Operating profit was down 62% at CER at 4 million 2008: A F E 9 million caused by the effect of reduced revenue and E D around 1 million of costs associated with a non-recurring A D contractual and operational issue in South Korea.
However, operating cash flow C was strong at 10 million 2008: 7 million.
B B Outlook for Invensys Operations Management We believe that our strength in the oil and gas refining and power sectors will provide resilience driven by the continued Revenue by sector Revenue by geography investment in capacity in developing markets and our A Discrete manufacturing 42% A UK 13% customers focus on improving the efficiency and financial B Heat treatment 21% B Rest of Europe 51% C General industries 12% C North America 19% performance of their existing operations.
In addition, we D Speciality chemicals 9% D South America 2% intend to realise the revenue potential and cost savings arising E Glass 4% E Asia Pacic 13% from the integration of these businesses into a single division.
F Other 12% F Africa Middle East 2% Although the product businesses within Process Systems and Eurotherm are likely to continue to experience ongoing declines, we expect that the creation of the integrated division will provide benefits in the current year.
Overall we expect to make progress in the current year.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 19
