Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate United Kingdom law and those International Financial resources to continue in operational existence for the Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union or, foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt in the case of the Companys Financial Statements, UK GAAP.
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In relation to the Group Financial Statements, the directors Directors responsibility statement are required to prepare financial statements for each financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and its financial performance and cash flows for that period.
a the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March In relation to the Companys Financial Statements, the directors 2009, prepared in accordance with International Financial are required by law to prepare financial statements for each Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of the Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, affairs of the Company and its profit and loss for that period.
In financial position and profit of the Company and the preparing the Company and Group Financial Statements, the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole: and directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them b the Business Review includes a fair review of the consistently: development and performance of the business and the present information, including accounting policies, in a position of the Company and the undertakings included in manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of understandable information: the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in applicable accounting standards By order of the Board is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company and the Group have complied with applicable accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial U C I Henriksson S Hare Statements.
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 13 May 2009 records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and The directors of Invensys plc are listed on page 7. enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 12 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 12 to 17.
Note 22 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 26 and 27.
While the Group is facing difficult and uncertain trading conditions in some of its markets, it is generally in a sound financial position with net cash, a 400 million banking facility in place until 2013, and well-established relationships with key customers and suppliers.
Therefore, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 47
