Shareholder information Latest company law allows AMEC to use its website to A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for # communicate with shareholders.
Around 80 per cent of shareholders who would prefer to purchase additional shareholders are now receiving AMEC annual reports and AMEC shares instead of receiving cash dividends.
Further notices of meetings electronically.
This is helping to make details of the DRIP may be obtained from Capita Registrars AMEC a more sustainable company, cutting production on 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus and distribution costs and reducing waste and pollution.
network extras: lines are open 9:00 am to 5:30 pm, Mon-Fri 44 20 8639 3402 if calling from overseas or via Shareholders receiving shareholder information in this amec.
way receive a letter every time any new shareholder information is published by AMEC.
Such communications Electronic shareholder information will refer to AMEC annual reports, documents relating to To register for electronic shareholder communications the annual general meeting and any other shareholder and manage your personal shareholding online, please communications.
They will contain links to the website go to capitashareportal.
To register you will need where the documents can be viewed.
However, your Investor Code IVC which can be found on your shareholders may elect to receive such notifications by share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
If you have email, which would normally be sent by AMECs registrar, any questions you may contact Capita Registrars on Capita Registrars.
For more information, see below.
0871 664 0391 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: lines are open 9:00 am to 5:30 pm, Copies of annual reports and accounts are also available Mon-Fri or 44 20 8639 3367 if calling from overseas.
by writing to AMEC at its registered office.
For general shareholder queries please contact: AMECs website contains useful information about the company and also provides a number of email Capita Registrars alerting services, which notify shareholders of Northern House, latest announcements and events.
To register, visit Woodsome Park, amec.
Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA This page sets out the key dates of the financial calendar United Kingdom and other summary information.
Further information is Tel: 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus available on amec.
com at the links provided below.
network extras: lines are open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm, Mon-Fri. Financial calendar Overseas callers: 44 20 8639 3399 With its financial year ending on 31 December, AMEC Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or visit the website at usually announces preliminary results in March, the capitaregistrars.
annual report is published in April and the annual general Registered office meeting takes place in May.
Interim results for the half AMEC plc year ended 30 June are announced in August, with interim Booths Park, management statements being provided in May and Chelford Road, November.
Knutsford, Results announcements and interim management Cheshire WA16 8QZ statements are notified to the London Stock Exchange United Kingdom and are available at amec.
Registered in England No 1675285 The latest financial calendar is available at amec.
Dividends The interim dividend is usually announced in August and paid in January, with the final dividend proposed in March and paid in July.
Shareholders may elect to have dividend payments made directly into their bank or building society accounts by contacting the companys registrar, Capita Registrars.
# Shareholders in certain countries are not able to participate see website for details.
116 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 AMEC is a focused supplier of high-value consultancy, engineering and project management services to the worlds natural resources, nuclear, clean energy, water and environmental sectors.
AMECs Natural Resources, Power & Process and Earth & Environmental businesses employ over 21,000 people in around 40 countries worldwide.
com Our website is constantly updated with the latest company news, features and share price information.
It also includes convenient downloads of our annual reports, which many shareholders now This report is printed using vegetable based inks by Beacon Press, a company totally committed choose instead of printed documents.
to reducing the impact printing has on the environment.
The production of this report is carbon neutral and Beacon Press is certified to ISO 14001, registered to EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme and holds the FSC Chain of Custody: number SCS-COC-0620 as well the Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
This report is printed on Hello Silk, a paper produced from virgin wood fibre from well managed forests certified by the FSC Forestry Stewardship Council and is ECF elemental chlorine free.
The producing mill is certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management systems.
SGS-COC-0620 Designed and produced by AMEC Corporate Communications, typeset by Artwork Agency Cover shows employees from AMECs offices in Vancouver, Canada with photography by Roth and Ramberg, Canada.
Delivering Operational Excellence | AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 AMEC plc 76-78 Old Street London EC1V 9RU United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7539 5800 amec.
com Delivering operational excellence Annual report and accounts 2009 Delivering Operational Excellence AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009
