Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 71 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The Group accounts consolidate those of ITV plc, the Company, a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Groups accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The accounts are principally prepared on the historical cost basis.
Areas where other bases are applied are identified in the accounting policies below.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The disclosures on pages 4042 in respect of liquidity risk and going concern form part of the audited accounts.
The Group has adopted the following standards and amendments effective from 1 January 2009 that are relevant to these financial statements: IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements A revised presentation.
The Group has presented both a consolidated statement of comprehensive income and a consolidated statement of changes in equity as primary financial statements.
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income effectively replaces the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
As a result, the Group presents in the consolidated statement of changes in equity all owner changes in equity, where as all non-owner changes in equity are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present a separate consolidated income statement.
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it is also in conformity with the revised standard.
Since the adoption of this accounting standard only impacts presentation aspects there is no impact on earnings loss per share.
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations.
The definition of vesting conditions has been amended to clarify that vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than service or performance conditions are considered non-vesting conditions.
This has had no material impact on the Groups results.
IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments.
These amendments enhance disclosures over fair value measurements relating to financial instruments and improving disclosures over liquidity risk.
Specifically, as a result of adopting the amendment, the Group has introduced a three-level disclosure hierarchy for financial instruments held at fair value see note 24.
Improvements to IFRS 1 Various standards amended The improvements contain 24 amendments that result in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes and 11 terminology or editorial amendments that have no or only minimal effects on accounting but have been reflected where relevant in the accounting policies set out in Note 1.2 to 1.30.
The Group has also chosen to early adopt the following standards that are effective from 1 July 2009: IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 for all business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests occurring in the financial year starting 1 January 2009.
The Group has applied these standards for the acquisitions disclosed in note 29.
Under the new accounting policy, the acquisition of the non-controlling interest of 25% in GMTV is accounted for as a transaction with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
Previously, goodwill was recognised arising on the acquisition of a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of acquisition.
The change in accounting policy is applied prospectively and had no material impact on earnings loss per share.
The accounting policies set out below, except as noted above, have been applied consistently in presenting the consolidated financial information.
1.2 Revenue recognition Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT and consists of sales of goods and services to third parties.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership and control of the goods sold and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Key classes of revenue are recognised on the following bases: Advertising and sponsorship on transmission Programme production on delivery Programme rights when contracted and available for exploitation Participation revenues as the service is provided Revenue on barter transactions is recognised only when the goods or services being exchanged are of a dissimilar nature.
Participation revenues relate to interactive and red button services.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 72 1 Accounting policies continued 1.3 Segmental analysis In accordance with IFRS 8, operating segments are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board of Directors, the chief operating decision maker.
1.4 Subsidiaries, associates, special purpose entities and joint ventures Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest under a contractual arrangement where the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions of an entity but is not control or joint control over those policies.
These investments are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method the investment in the entity is stated as one line item at cost plus the investors share of retained post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
The Group establishes special purpose entities SPEs for trading and investment purposes.
An SPE is consolidated if, based on an evaluation of the substance of its relationships with the Group and the SPEs risks and rewards, it is concluded that the Group controls the SPE.
SPEs controlled by the Group are established under terms that impose strict limitations on the decision-making powers of the SPEs management and that result in the Group receiving the majority of the benefits related to the SPEs operations and net assets, being exposed to the majority of risks incidental to the SPEs activities and receive the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPEs or their assets.
1.5 Current non-current distinction Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the course of the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets are classified as non-current assets.
Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities.
1.6 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where the most sensitive estimates and assumptions are significant to the financial statements, are set out in accounting policies 1.7 1.14 below: 1.7 Intangible assets Business combinations and goodwill All business combinations that have occurred since 1 January 2009 are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred including the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured at the acquisition date.
Subsequent adjustments to the fair values of net assets acquired are made within 12 months of the acquisition date where original fair values were determined provisionally.
These adjustments are accounted for from the date of acquisition.
The Group measures a noncontrolling interest at its proportionate interest in the identifiable net assets of the acquiree.
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as legal fees, due diligence fees and other professional and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.
All business combinations that have occurred since 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2008 have been accounted for by applying the purchase method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
Goodwill on these combinations represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
For business combinations prior to 1 January 2004, but after 30 September 1998, goodwill is included at its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP at that time less amortisation up to 31 December 2003.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations occurring prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has not been reconsidered as permitted under IFRS 1.
Goodwill is stated at its recoverable amount being cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is allocated to cash generating units.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 30 September 1998 was recognised as a deduction from equity.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 73 1 Accounting policies continued 1.7 Intangible assets continued Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation except those identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination which are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation.
Identifiable intangible assets are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights.
In determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition the directors are required to make judgements regarding the timing and amount of future cash flows applicable to the businesses being acquired, discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
Such judgements are based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates, expected changes to selling prices, operating costs and the expected useful lives of assets following purchase.
Judgements are also made regarding whether and for how long licences will be renewed.
The directors estimate the appropriate discount rate using pre tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the businesses being acquired.
The values of brands acquired are assessed by applying a royalty rate to the expected future revenues over the life of the brand.
Licences are valued on a start-up basis.
Customer relationships and contracts are valued based on expected future cash flows from those existing at the date of acquisition.
Contributory charges from other assets are taken as appropriate with cash flows then being discounted back to their present value.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are judged to be indefinite.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at each reporting date.
Internally generated software development costs in relation to itv.
com are expensed as incurred.
The estimated useful lives and amortisation methods for each major class of intangible asset are as follows: Film libraries Sum of digits 20 years Licences Straight line 11 to 17 years Brands Straight line up to 11 years Customer contracts Straight line up to 6 years Customer relationships Straight line 5 to 10 years Software development costs Straight line 1 to 5 years 1.8 Impairment of assets Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use is based on the discounted present value of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit to which the asset relates.
Estimates are used in deriving these cash flows and the discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the risks specific to the asset and the time value of money.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the intangible asset accounting policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
In particular, if different estimates of the projected future cash flows or a different selection of an appropriate discount rate or long-term growth rate were made, these changes could materially alter the projected value of the cash flows of the asset, and as a consequence materially different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
1.9 Programme rights Where programming, sports rights and film rights are acquired for the primary purpose of broadcasting, these are recognised within current assets.
Assets are recognised when the Group controls, in substance, the respective assets and the risks and rewards associated with them.
For acquired programme rights assets are recognised as payments are made and are recognised in full when the acquired programming is available for transmission.
Programming produced internally, either for the purpose of broadcasting or to be sold in the normal course of the Groups operating cycle, is recognised within current assets at production cost.
Programme costs and rights, including those acquired under sale and leaseback arrangements, are written off to operating costs in full on first transmission except certain film rights and programming for digital channels which are written off over a number of transmissions.
Programme costs and rights not yet written off are included in the statement of financial position at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing net realisable value consideration is given to the contracted sales price and estimated costs to complete for programmes in production, and the estimated airtime value of programme stock, sports rights and film rights.
In assessing the airtime value of programme stock and film rights consideration is given to whether the number of transmissions purchased can be efficiently played out over the licence period.
Any reversals of write downs for programme costs and rights are recognised as a reduction in operating costs.
ITV entered into sale and leaseback agreements in relation to certain programme titles.
Related outstanding sale and leaseback obligations, which comprise the principal and accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance related element of the agreement is charged to the income statement over the term of the lease on an effective interest basis.
Sale and leaseback obligations are secured against an equivalent cash balance held within cash and cash equivalents.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 74 1 Accounting policies continued 1.10 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially and subsequently at amortised cost.
The Group provides goods and services to substantially all its customers on credit terms.
Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the directors, be collected.
These estimates include such factors as historical experience, the current state of the UK and overseas economies and industry specific factors.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is sufficient evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to their original terms.
1.11 Taxation The tax charge for the period comprises both current and deferred tax and is based on tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of changes in equity according to the accounting treatment of the related transaction.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due which requires judgement.
Amounts are accrued based on managements interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on any temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and those for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilise the temporary difference.
Recognition of deferred tax assets, therefore, involves judgement regarding the timing and level of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed net to the extent that they relate to taxes levied by the same authority and the Group has the right of set off.
1.12 Employee benefits Defined contribution schemes Obligations under the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an operating cost in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate used is the yield at the valuation date on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions which include life expectancy of members, expected salary and pension increases, inflation and the return on scheme assets.
It is important to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the income statement and statement of financial position.
The calculations are performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they arise through the statement of comprehensive income.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes.
The fair value of the equity instrument is measured at grant date and spread over the vesting period through the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the share options and awards is measured using either a Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes model as appropriate taking into account the terms and conditions of the individual scheme.
Under these valuation methods, the share price for ITV plc is projected to the end of the performance period as is the Total Shareholder Return for ITV plc and the companies in the comparator groups.
Based on these projections, the number of awards that will vest and their present value is determined.
The valuation of these share-based payments also requires estimates to be made in respect of the number of options that are expected to be exercised.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
Vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and performance conditions.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 75 1 Accounting policies continued 1.13 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and other foreign exchange rates.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the movement recorded in the income statement within net financing costs.
Derivatives with a positive fair value are recorded as assets and negative fair values as liabilities.
The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by using the difference between the contract exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
Third party valuations are used to fair value the Groups derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves and currency prices yields, volatilities of underlying instruments and correlations between inputs.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value through profit or loss the fair value change and interest income expense are not separated.
1.14 Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation arising from past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be measured reliably.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows by a rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a financing cost.
These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash flows are dependent on future events.
1.15 Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.
Leases Finance leases are those which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Assets held under such leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Outstanding finance lease obligations, which comprise the principal plus accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance element of the agreements is charged to the income statement over the term of the lease on an effective interest basis.
All other leases are operating leases, the rentals on which are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: Freehold land not depreciated Freehold buildings up to 60 years Leasehold properties shorter of residual lease term or 60 years Leasehold improvements shorter of residual lease term or estimated useful life Vehicles, equipment and fittings 3 to 20 years 1.16 Distribution rights Programme rights acquired primarily for the purposes of distribution are classified within the statement of financial position as non-current assets.
They are recognised initially at cost and charged through the income statement over either a three or five year period depending on genre.
The estimated lives are based on historical experience with similar rights as well as anticipation of future events.
1.17 Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets comprise gilts and equity securities that do not meet the definition of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
They are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised directly in the available for sale reserve in equity, unless the loss is a permanent impairment when it is recorded in the income statement.
1.18 Foreign currencies Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial statements in each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the respective Group entity at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are translated into the functional currency of the respective Group entity at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 76 1 Accounting policies continued 1.18 Foreign currencies continued Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into the functional currency of the Group at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into the functional currency of the Group at the average rate of exchange ruling during the financial period.
Exchange differences arising on translation are recognised directly in the translation reserve in equity and in other comprehensive income.
Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken directly to the translation reserve within equity.
In respect of all foreign operations only those translation differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of an investment in a foreign operation the associated translation reserve balance is released to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
1.19 Exceptional items Exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the income statement, are items which due to their material and non-recurring nature have been classified separately in order to draw them to the attention of the reader of the accounts.
They are included in the adjustments that, in managements judgement, are required in order to show more accurately the business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and to reflect how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
1.20 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, call deposits with maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of acquisition, cash held to meet certain finance lease commitments and gilts over which unfunded pension promises have a charge.
1.21 Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
1.22 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, with subsequent measurement at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value is recorded in the income statement over the period of the liability on an effective interest basis.
Where the Group has identified that any such liabilities result in a mismatch between the accounting liability and the related derivative, the Group has adopted the fair value option provision of IAS 39 revised to eliminate this accounting mismatch.
Management consider that this fair value treatment is more appropriate than amortised cost as the movements in these financial instruments largely offset each other and, as a result, they are managed on an aggregated basis.
The effect of this is that the Group recognises any such financial liabilities at fair value in all periods subsequent to initial recognition, with resultant gains or losses recorded in the income statement.
1.23 Non-current assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use, they are available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets or components of a disposal group are re-measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Thereafter generally the assets or disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro-rata basis except to programming rights and other inventory, financial assets and deferred tax assets, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on re-measurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
No amortisation or depreciation is charged on non-current assets including those in disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Assets classified as held for sale are disclosed separately on the face of the statement of financial position and classified as current assets or liabilities, with disposal groups being separated between assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale.
Disposal groups are classified as discontinued operations where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The income statement for the comparative period is re-presented to show the discontinued operations separate from the continuing operations.
1.24 ITV shares held by Employees Benefit Trust EBT Transactions of the Group-sponsored EBT are included in the Groups accounts.
In particular, the EBTs purchases of shares in ITV plc are debited directly to equity.
1.25 Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
1.26 Investment income Investment income comprises dividends received from the Groups investments.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the Groups right to receive payment is established.
1.27 Net financing costs Net financing costs comprises interest income on funds invested including gilts classified as available-for-sale financial assets, gains losses on the disposal of financial instruments, changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss, interest expense on borrowings and finance leases, unwinding of the discount on provisions and foreign exchange gains losses.
Interest income and expense is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest method.
1.28 Derecognition and recognition The Group recognises a financial asset or liability when it becomes a party to the contract.
Financial instruments are derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual cash flows expire or when the Group no longer retains control of substantially all the risks and rewards under the instrument.
1.29 Held to maturity assets Where the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold financial assets to maturity, they are classified as held to maturity.
Held to maturity financial assets are recognised initially at fair value including any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, held to maturity financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 77 1 Accounting policies continued 1.30 Compound financial instruments Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible notes that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder.
The liability component of a compound financial instrument is recognised initially at the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an equity conversion option.
The equity component is recognised initially at the difference between the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the fair value of the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component of a compound financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
1.31 Application of new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments to existing EU endorsed standards and interpretations Set out below are the standards, amendments and interpretations that are effective in 2009 but are not considered relevant to the Groups results: New standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the EU and effective in 2009 Not relevant to the Groups results IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 Reclassification of This amendment clarified the effective date and transition requirements of the Financial Assets: Effective Date and amendment to IAS 39, and states that the entities will apply this amendment Transition.
IAS 23 Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Comprehensive revision to prohibit immediate expensing of borrowing costs for costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
IFRS 1 & IAS 27 Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 The amendments allow first-time adopters relief from certain requirements of Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, IAS 27 and by removing the definition of the cost method from the standard Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate.
and replacing it with a requirement to present dividends as income in the separate financial statements of the investor.
IAS 1 & IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation The amendments provide exemptions from the requirement to classify as a Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable liability, financial instruments under which an entity has an unavoidable obligation Financial Instruments and Obligations to deliver cash.
This interpretation provides guidance to operators of public to private service concession arrangement in relation to certain recognition and measurement issues.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction This interpretation deals with the accounting for revenue arising from agreements of Real Estate.
for the construction of real estate.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in This interpretation deals with hedge accounting for the foreign currency risk arising A Foreign Operation.
from a net investment in a foreign operation.
Other than those standards the Group has elected to adopt early as disclosed in Note 1.1, a number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective for the Group and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
New standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the EU but not yet effective Not relevant to the Groups results IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial The amendment clarifies how the principles that determine whether a hedged Instruments: Recognition and risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items.
The amendment addresses two particular situations, including the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item: and the designation of inflation in particular situations.
The amendment applies to hedging relationships in the scope of IAS 39 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 9 & IAS 39 Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 requires an entity to assess whether an Embedded Derivatives.
embedded derivative is required to be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners.
The interpretation addresses the accounting when an entity distributes non-cash assets as dividends to its owners, by focusing on the measurement of the dividend payable and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers.
This interpretation deals with the accounting for contributed property, plant and equipment, whereby an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or to do both.
It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues.
The amendment requires that rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 78 2 Operating segmental information The Board of Directors considers the business primarily from a product perspective.
The reportable segments are therefore Broadcasting & Online, ITV Studios and Other.
All of the segments reported meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, which the Group first adopted in 2007.
Management has determined the reportable segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors.
The Broadcasting & Online segment now includes the results of the previously disclosed Online segment which is now managed as part of the Broadcasting business.
The comparatives have been restated in this note to reflect this significant change in the nature of the Groups operations.
The Global Content segment has changed its name to ITV Studios to reflect the rebranding of this business during the year.
Broadcasting & Online is responsible for commissioning and scheduling programmes on the ITV channels, marketing and programme publicity and online rights exploitation.
It derives its revenue primarily from the sale of advertising airtime and sponsorship.
Other sources of revenue are from online advertising, premium rate services and the digital terrestrial multiplex, SDN.
The Broadcasting & Online segment also includes the Groups investment in STV Group plc.
ITV Studios formerly Global Content derives its revenue primarily from ITV Studios UK a commercial programme production company, international production centres in America, Germany, Sweden and Australia and the businesses in ITV Studios Global Entertainment.
A proportion of revenue is generated internally via programme sales to the Broadcasting & Online segment.
ITV Studios Global Entertainment sells programming, exploits merchandising and licensing worldwide, and is a distributor of DVD entertainment in the UK.
Other comprises the Groups 100% interest in Carlton Screen Advertising CSA, which sells cinema screen advertising in the UK, and was put into creditors voluntary liquidation in the year and its 50% interest in Screenvision US and Europe, which operate cinema screen advertising businesses in continental Europe and the United States and were held for sale at the reporting date.
The segment information provided for the reportable segments for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 is as follows: Broadcasting & Online ITV Studios Other Consolidated 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Total segment revenue 1,543 1,683 597 622 1 40 2,141 2,345 Intersegment revenue 262 316 262 316 Revenue from external customers 1,543 1,683 335 306 1 40 1,879 2,029 EBITA before exceptional items 111 120 91 90 1 202 211 Share of loss profit from joint ventures and associated undertakings 4 4 3 11 7 15 Total segment assets 1,295 1,704 745 645 65 2,040 2,414 Total assets include: Investments in associates and joint ventures 3 14 2 1 51 5 66 Additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments 35 37 29 44 10 64 91 Total segment liabilities 489 519 256 294 5 745 818 Depreciation in the year was 38 million 2008: 36 million, of which 25 million 2008: 25 million relates to the Broadcasting & Online, 13 million 2008: 10 million to ITV Studios and nil 2008: 1 million to Other.
Sales between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Board of Directors is measured in a manner consistent with the income statement.
Income statement and statement of financial position allocations between reportable segments are performed on a consistent basis with the exception of pension costs, which are allocated, and pension assets and liabilities, which are not.
This reflects the basis of reporting to the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors assess the performance of the reportable segments based on a measure of EBITA before exceptional items, which is defined as operating profit loss before impairment and amortisation of intangible assets and operating income cost exceptional items.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of non-recurring income and expenditure.
Amortisation, investment income and share of profit losses of joint ventures and associates are also excluded to reflect more accurately how the business is managed and measured on a day to day basis.
Net financing costs are not allocated to segments as this type of activity is driven by the central treasury function, which manages the cash position of the Group.
A reconciliation of EBITA before exceptional items to profit loss before tax is provided as follows: 2009 2008 m m EBITA before exceptional items 202 211 Operating income costs exceptional items 53 97 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 59 2,761 Net financing costs 91 60 Share of losses of joint ventures and associated undertakings 7 15 Investment income 1 Loss on sale and impairment of non-current assets exceptional items 22 17 Loss gain on sale and impairment of subsidiaries and investments exceptional items 51 6 Profit loss before tax 25 2,732 Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 79 2 Operating segmental information continued The amounts provided to the Board of Directors with respect to total assets are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
Reportable segments assets are reconciled to total assets as follows: 2009 2008 m m Segment assets 2,040 2,414 Unallocated: Held to maturity investments 149 Assets held for sale 78 3 Total derivative financial assets 156 218 Net deferred tax assets 50 Cash and cash equivalents 582 616 Total assets per the statement of financial position 3,055 3,251 The amounts provided to the Board of Directors with respect to total liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
Reportable segments liabilities are reconciled to total liabilities as follows: 2009 2008 m m Segment liabilities 745 818 Unallocated: Interest accruals 23 30 Dividends payable 25 Total derivative financial liabilities 34 32 Total borrowings 1,440 1,523 Current tax liabilities 31 56 Net deferred tax liability 55 Defined benefit pension deficit 436 178 Total liabilities per the statement of financial position 2,709 2,717 The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
Its revenue from external customers in the United Kingdom is 1,621 million 2008: 1,821 million, and the total revenue from external customers in other countries is 258 million 2008: 208 million.
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, and employment benefit assets there are no rights arising under insurance contracts located in the UK is 1,212 million 2008: 1,443 million, and the total of these non-current assets located in other countries is 1 million 2008: 1 million.
Revenues of approximately 324 million 2008: 382 million, 226 million 2008: 236 million, 194 million 2008: 222 million and 190 million 2008: 193 million are derived from four external customers.
The Groups major customers are all media buying agencies.
These revenues are attributable to the Broadcasting & Online segment and are from the only customers which individually represent over 10% of the Groups revenues.
3 Staff costs 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 244 287 Social security and other costs 33 36 Share-based compensation see note 7 11 10 Pension costs 16 14 Total 304 347 Staff costs within exceptional items were 32 million 2008: 26 million principally relating to redundancy payments and reorganisation costs.
Total staff costs including exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2009 are 336 million 2008: 373 million.
In addition to the pension costs shown above, is a net debit to net financing costs of 15 million 2008: credit of 16 million and a net debit to retained earnings in respect of actuarial losses of 391 million 2008: losses of 124 million.
The weighted average number of employees employed by the Group during the year was: 2009 2008 Broadcasting & Online 2,606 3,120 ITV Studios 1,908 2,338 Other 5 139 Total 4,519 5,597 Details of the directors emoluments, share options, pension entitlements and long-term incentive scheme interests are set out in the Remuneration report.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 80 4 Total operating costs 2009 2008 m m Staff costs Before exceptional items 304 347 Exceptional items 32 26 336 373 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 59 2,761 Depreciation 38 36 97 2,797 Other operating costs Broadcasting schedule costs 1,006 1,125 Broadcasting transmission costs 97 94 Broadcasting industry costs 40 44 Licence fees 22 30 CSA direct costs 1 33 ITV Studios non-staff costs 233 217 Operating lease costs 14 19 Other operating exceptional items 85 71 Audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc see below 2 2 Other 106 97 1,436 1,732 Less: Staff costs and other costs charged to broadcasting schedule costs 186 226 Total operating costs 1,683 4,676 ITV Studios non-staff costs are net of the recharge for programmes supplied to ITV Broadcasting channels which is eliminated on consolidation as internal revenue.
The Group engages KPMG Audit Plc KPMG on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are important.
The Groups policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee report.
Fees paid to KPMG during the year are set out below: 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to KPMG for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 0.7 0.9 Fees payable to KPMG and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.2 0.5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Group or any of its associates 0.6 0.6 All other services 0.1 Total 2.2 2.3 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 81 5 Exceptional items 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Operating exceptional items: Reorganisation and restructuring costs 40 40 PRS reimbursements and fines 6 Onerous contract provisions 1 50 Onerous property provision 14 Pension scheme changes 110 Kangaroo closure costs 2 1 Total net operating exceptional items 53 97 Non-operating exceptional items: Loss on sale and impairment of non-current assets 22 17 Loss gain on sale, net of impairment, of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 52 17 Gain loss on sale, net of impairment, of available for sale financial assets 1 7 Gain loss from sale of Kangaroo joint venture assets 2 4 Loss gain on sale and impairment of subsidiaries and investments 51 6 Total non-operating exceptional items 73 11 Total exceptional items before tax 20 108 2009 In 2009 a charge of 40 million was incurred in respect of reorganisation and restructuring costs in relation to announced efficiency savings programmes.
An increase in provisions in respect of onerous contracts for sports rights of 1 million were put in place in 2009 as a consequence of the forecast significant decline in the advertising market over the life of those contracts.
A 14 million charge was incurred in respect of a property vacated as a result of the significant headcount reductions in the year.
Pension scheme changes have taken place following consultation with the Scheme members to implement a cap on increases to pensionable salary levels and to offer retired members the option of altering the structure of their pension by receiving an uplift now in return for giving up rights to future annual increases.
Both of these changes will reduce the future cost and risks of operating the Pension Schemes and have resulted in a gain of 110 million, 38 million of which relates to a past service cost and 72 million to a curtailment gain see note 6, and a corresponding reduction in the defined benefit pension deficit.
A 2 million charge was incurred in the year relating to closure costs associated with Kangaroo.
A 2 million gain is included within non-operating exceptional items.
This reverses an impairment taken in the prior year in respect of the Groups investment in Kangaroo following the sale of the joint ventures tangible assets during the year.
The 22 million charge for loss on sale and impairment of non-current assets relates to a 5 million impairment on properties included within assets held for sale to reflect their estimated market value, a 14 million impairment on property, plant and equipment to reflect their estimated recoverable amount and a net 3 million loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
This includes a 2 million gain on disposal of a Manchester property for 2 million cash consideration, offset by the disposal of plant and equipment with a net book value of 5 million for nil cash consideration following the efficiency reviews, primarily in regional news and studios related properties.
The net 52 million loss on sale, net of impairment, of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates includes an impairment loss of 32 million on the remeasurement of the Friends Reunited disposal group to the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
It also includes a net loss on sale of subsidiaries of 5 million, 6 million loss on the sale of Enable Media Limited off set by a 1 million gain on the sale of JFMG Limited.
Net impairments of joint ventures and associates of 9 million include 7 million for ITN.
The remaining 2 million of this comprises numerous movements disclosed in note 14.
A 6 million charge was also incurred during the year in relation to Carlton Screen Advertising Limited being put into creditors voluntary liquidation.
The charge incurred is equal to the value of its net assets no longer consolidated by the Group following the transfer of control of the entity to the liquidator.
The Group has a 29 million other debtor due from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, which is fully provided for pending the outcome of the liquidation.
The net 1 million loss on sale, net of impairment, of available for sale assets includes a 1 million impairment incurred on marking the Groups investment in STV Group plc to its fair value following a significant and sustained decline in its share price, a 1 million impairment of the Groups 10% investment in Electric Farm Entertainment LLC and a 1 million gain on disposal of shares in Ambassador Theatre Group Limited.
2008 In 2008 a charge of 40 million was incurred in respect of reorganisation and restructuring costs.
This includes 18 million related to Regional News and 22 million as a result of other efficiency programmes.
On 8 May 2008, Ofcom announced a fine to ITV of 6 million in respect of breaches of the programme code relating to premium rate services on ITV1 and ITV2.
At the date of approval of the 2007 accounts, the regulator had not yet confirmed the level of any fine that might have been imposed in this context.
Therefore no provision for a fine was able to be included in the 2007 accounts.
Provisions in respect of onerous contracts for sports rights of 50 million were put in place in 2008 as a consequence of the forecast significant decline in the advertising market over the life of those contracts.
A 1 million charge was incurred in the year relating to closure costs associated with Kangaroo.
A 4 million charge, included within non-operating exceptional items, related to the impairment of the joint venture investment to nil.
An impairment of 14 million was charged on the Manchester properties prior to their reclassification from assets held for sale to fixed assets and an impairment of 3 million has been charged on the remaining property classified in assets held for sale.
During the year, as part of the ongoing process to dispose of non-core businesses and investments, the Group sold its 50% interests in Arsenal Broadband Limited and Liverpool FC.
tv Limited, resulting in gains of 12 million and 13 million respectively.
These and other smaller gains were partially offset by 9 million of closure costs relating to CSA and a 3 million impairment in the Groups investment in Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited both of which are disclosed in the other reporting segment.
An impairment of the holding in STV Group plc, which is held in the Broadcasting segment, of 7 million was made in 2008 following a significant and sustained decline in its share price.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 82 6 Pension schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension scheme assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees of the fund are required to act in the best interest of the funds beneficiaries.
The appointment of trustees to the fund is determined by the schemes trust documentation.
Defined contribution schemes Total contributions recognised as an expense in relation to defined contribution schemes during 2009 were 4 million 2008: 4 million.
Defined benefit schemes The Group provides retirement benefits to some of its former employees and approximately 25% of current monthly paid employees through defined benefit schemes.
The Groups main scheme was formed from a merger of a number of schemes on 31 January 2006.
The level of retirement benefit is principally based on pensionable salary at retirement.
The liabilities of the defined benefit scheme are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method.
This amount is reflected in the deficit in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The projected unit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the scheme liabilities make allowance for projected earnings.
The accumulated benefit obligation is an actuarial measure of the present value of benefits for service already rendered but differs from the projected unit method in that it includes an allowance for early leaver statutory revaluation rather than projected pensionable salary increases.
At the reporting date the accumulated benefit obligation was 2,720 million 2008: 2,310 million.
The assets and liabilities of all of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2009 under IAS 19 as explained in detail in this note were 2,251 million 2008: 2,161 million and 2,687 million 2008: 2,339 million respectively, resulting in a net deficit in the defined benefit schemes of 436 million 2008: 178 million.
An alternative method of valuation to the projected unit method is a solvency basis, often estimated using the cost of buying out benefits at the consolidated statement of financial position date with a suitable insurer.
This amount represents the amount that would be required to settle the scheme liabilities at the consolidated statement of financial position date rather than the Group continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the scheme.
The Group estimates the shortfall in the amount required to settle the schemes liabilities at the consolidated statement of financial position date is 1,500 million 2008: 1,800 million.
The statutory funding objective is that the scheme has sufficient and appropriate assets to pay its benefits as they fall due.
Future contributions will always be set at least at the level required to satisfy the statutory funding objective.
The general principles adopted by the trustees are that the assumptions used, taken as a whole, will be sufficiently prudent for pensions and benefits already in payment to continue to be paid, and to reflect the commitments which will arise from members accrued pension rights.
The Groups main scheme, formed by merger on 31 January 2006, consists of three sections, A, B and C. The first triennial valuation of section A was completed as at 1 January 2008 by an independent actuary for the Trustees of the ITV Pension Scheme.
The first triennial valuation of sections B and C were completed as at 1 January 2007 and the next triennial valuation of these sections are being undertaken as at 1 January 2010.
The Group will monitor funding levels annually.
The levels of ongoing contributions are based on the current service costs and the expected future cash flows of the defined benefit scheme.
Normal employer contributions into the schemes in 2010 for current service are expected to be in the region of 9 million 2009: 11 million assuming current contribution rates continue as agreed with the scheme trustees.
In addition, deficit funding payments of 30 million per annum are expected for the next four years.
The Group estimates the average duration of UK scheme liabilities to be 14 years 2008: 14 years.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 83 6 Pension schemes continued The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for these schemes is analysed below: 2009 2008 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2,339 2,603 Current service cost 7 12 Curtailment gain redundancies 2 2 Operating exceptional curtailment gain salary cap 72 Past service cost augmentations 1 Operating exceptional past service credit one off change to pension payment 38 Interest cost 143 146 Net actuarial loss gain 439 314 Contributions by scheme participants 4 6 Benefits paid 134 112 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2,687 2,339 The present value of the defined benefit obligation is analysed between wholly unfunded and funded defined benefit schemes in the table below: 2009 2008 m m Defined benefit obligation in respect of funded schemes 2,653 2,309 Defined benefit obligation in respect of wholly unfunded schemes 34 30 Total defined benefit obligation 2,687 2,339 The movement in the fair value of the defined benefit scheme assets is analysed below: 2009 2008 m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2,161 2,491 Expected return on assets 128 162 Net actuarial gain loss 48 438 Employer contributions 44 52 Contributions by scheme participants 4 6 Benefits and expenses paid 134 112 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2,251 2,161 The assets and liabilities of the scheme are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position and shown within non-current liabilities.
The total recognised is: 2006 2005 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Total defined benefit scheme assets 2,251 2,161 2,491 2,372 2,072 Total defined benefit scheme obligations 2,687 2,339 2,603 2,657 2,604 Net amount recognised within the consolidated statement of financial position 436 178 112 285 532 Amounts recognised through the income statement are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Amount charged to operating costs: Current service cost 7 12 Curtailment gain redundancies 2 2 Past service cost augmentations 1 6 10 Amount credited to operating income - exceptional items: Curtailment gain 72 Past service credit one-off change to pensions payment 38 110 Amount charged credited to net financing costs: Expected return on pension scheme assets 128 162 Interest cost 143 146 15 16 Total credited in the consolidated income statement 89 6 Two operating exceptional gains were recognised in 2009 in relation to changes made to the ITV Pension Scheme: a curtailment gain of 72 million in relation to the cap on increase to pensionable salaries: and a past service credit of 38 million in relation to the one off change to pension payments.
These are included within the figures above.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 84 6 Pension schemes continued The amounts recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income cost are: 2009 2008 m m Actuarial gains and losses : Arising on scheme assets 48 438 Arising on scheme liabilities 439 314 391 124 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2004 is an actuarial loss of 319 million 2008: 72 million gain.
Included within actuarial gains and losses are experience adjustments as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Experience adjustments on scheme assets 48 438 15 32 219 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 18 12 9 At 31 December 2009 the scheme assets were invested in a diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt securities.
The fair value of the scheme assets are shown below by major category: Market Market value value 2009 2008 m m Market value of assets equity-type assets 869 704 Market value of assets bonds 1,263 1,330 Market value of assets other 119 127 Total scheme assets 2,251 2,161 Exposure through the different asset classes is obtained through a combination of executing swaps and investing in physical assets.
Some of these bond investments are issued by the UK Government.
The risk of default on these is very small compared to the risk of default on corporate bond investments, although some risk may remain.
The trustees also hold corporate bonds and other fixed interest securities.
There is a more significant risk of default on these which is assessed by various rating agencies.
In 2009 yields have reduced relative to gilts which is partly attributed to a decrease in default risk in respect of these bonds.
The trustees also have a substantial holding of equity-type investments predominantly equities with some exposure to hedge funds and infrastructure.
The investment return related to these is variable, and they are generally considered much riskier investments.
It is generally accepted that the yield on equity investments will contain a premium the equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional risk of holding this type of investment.
There is significant uncertainty about the likely size of this risk premium.
In respect of overseas equity investments there is an additional risk associated with the exposure to unfavourable currency movements.
To reduce this risk, the scheme aims to hedge broadly 60% of the overseas equity investment against currency movements.
The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation for 2010 to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
The benchmark for 2010 is to hold broadly 47% equities and 53% bonds.
The majority of the equities held by the scheme are in international blue chip entities.
The aim is to hold a globally diversified portfolio of equities, with a target of broadly 22% of equities being held in UK and 78% of equities held overseas.
Within the bond portfolio the aim is to hold 58% of the portfolio in government bonds gilts and 42% of the portfolio in corporate bonds and other fixed interest securities.
The expected rates of return on plan assets by major category and target allocations are set out below: Expected Expected long-term rate Planned asset long-term rate Planned asset of return allocation of return allocation 2010 2010 2009 2009 % p. a.
% of assets Equity and Property 8.1 47 7.5 47 Bonds 4.0 5.0 53 3.6 6.3 53 The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the financial period for returns over the life of the related obligation.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates can be derived exactly from their market value.
The actual return on plan assets in the year ended 31 December 2009 was an increase of 176 million 2008: decrease of 276 million.
The principal assumptions used in the scheme valuations at the end of the reporting period were: 2009 2008 Rate of general increase in salaries 4.40% 3.80% Rate of pensionable salary increases 0.90% 3.80% Rate of increase in pension payment LPI 5% pension increases 3.30% 2.70% Rate of increase to deferred pensions 3.40% 2.80% Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.70% 6.30% Inflation assumption 3.40% 2.80% Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 85 6 Pension schemes continued IAS 19 requires that the discount rate used be determined by reference to market yields at the reporting date on high quality fixed income investments.
The currency and term of these should be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post-employment obligations.
The discount rate has been based on the yield available on AA rated corporate bonds of a term similar to the liabilities.
The expected rate of inflation is an important building block for salary growth and pension increase assumptions.
A rate of inflation is implied by the difference between the yields on fixed and index-linked Government bonds.
However, differences in demand for these can distort this implied figure.
The Bank of England target inflation rate has also been considered in setting this assumption.
The Group has used PA92 year of birth tables with medium cohort improvements, with a 1% per annum underpin and a one year age rating i. e. tables are adjusted so that a member is assumed to be one year older than actual age.
Using these tables the assumed life expectations on retirement are: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Retiring today at age 60 65 60 65 Males 26.5 21.6 26.5 21.6 Females 29.8 24.8 29.8 24.8 Retiring in 20 years at age 60 65 60 65 Males 28.5 23.4 28.5 23.4 Females 31.9 26.7 31.9 26.7 The tables above reflect published mortality investigation data in conjunction with the results of investigations into the mortality experience of scheme members.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes liabilities are set out below.
The illustrations consider the single change shown with the other assumptions assumed to be unchanged.
In practice, changes in one assumption may be accompanied by offsetting changes in another assumption although this is not always the case.
The Groups liability is the difference between the scheme liabilities and the scheme assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the market value of scheme assets.
These may or may not offset the change in assumptions.
For example, a fall in interest rates will increase the scheme liability, but may also trigger an offsetting increase in the market value of certain scheme assets so there is no net effect on the Groups liability.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 7% Rate of inflation Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 7% Life expectations Increase by 1 year Increase by 2% ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 86 7 Share-based compensation 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price 000 pence 000 pence Outstanding at 1 January 116,454 71.88 131,803 79.46 Granted during the year nil priced 26,821 20,929 Granted during the year other 13,498 28.60 15,132 52.00 Forfeited during the year 12,794 39.23 15,295 52.99 Exercised during the year 8,772 11,351 6.63 Expired during the year 33,218 52.19 24,764 80.94 Outstanding at 31 December 101,989 63.94 116,454 71.88 Exercisable at 31 December 33,694 160.42 42,057 151.48 The average share price during 2009 was 38.37 pence 2008: 52.34 pence.
Awards made under the Granada Media and Granada Commitment schemes, the Granada Media, Granada and Carlton Executive Share Option schemes, the Carlton Equity Participation Plan, and the Carlton Deferred Annual Bonus Plan have all reached the end of their various performance periods, and have vested or lapsed accordingly.
Details of the performance criteria that applied to these awards have been detailed in the notes to previous accounts, and in previous Remuneration reports.
The Granada and ITV Save As You Earn schemes are Inland Revenue Approved SAYE schemes.
Although some awards remain vested but unexercised under these Plans, they are not considered material for the purposes of disclosure in this note.
Exercises can be satisfied by market purchase or issue of new shares.
No new shares may be issued to satisfy exercises under the terms of the Deferred Share Award Plan.
During the year all exercises were satisfied by using shares purchased in the market and held in the ITV Employees Benefit Trust rather than by issuing new shares.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 87 7 Share-based compensation continued Assumptions relating to grants of share options during 2009 and 2008: Share price Exercise Expected Gross dividend Risk free Date of at grant price volatility Expected life yield rate Fair value Scheme name grant pence pence % years % % pence Save As You Earn ITV three year 04-Apr-08 65.00 52.00 25.00% 3.25 2.84% 3.93% 17.00 ITV five year 04-Apr-08 65.00 52.00 25.00% 5.25 2.84% 4.09% 19.00 ITV three year 17-Jul-09 35.00 28.60 53.00% 3.25 2.40% 17.00 ITV five year 17-Jul-09 35.00 28.60 43.00% 5.25 3.10% 18.00 Performance Share Plan ITV three year 01-Jun-09 40.00 53.00% 3.00 2.10% 30.20 Turnaround Plan ITV three year 12-Sep-08 49.90 25.00% 2.25 2.96% 5.04% 14.00 ITV five year 12-Sep-08 49.90 25.00% 4.25 2.96% 4.98% 18.00 ITV three year 02-Oct-08 42.30 25.00% 2.25 2.96% 5.04% 12.00 ITV five year 02-Oct-08 42.30 25.00% 4.25 2.96% 4.98% 16.00 The expected volatility has been revised upwards for awards made in 2009, reflecting historic volatility of ITV plcs share price and equity markets as a whole over the preceding three or five years, dependent on the expected life of the award, prior to the grant date of the share options awarded.
The expected volatility of the 2008 awards was based on the historic volatility of ITV plc, which was formed on the merger of Granada plc and Carlton Communications Plc on 2 February 2004.
The awards made under the Commitment Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Turnaround Plan all have market based performance conditions which are taken into account in the fair value calculation using a Monte Carlo pricing model.
The Black-Scholes model is used to value the Save As You Earn Schemes as these do not have any market performance conditions.
Share-based compensation charges totalled 11 million in 2009 2008: 10 million.
8 Net financing costs 2009 2008 m m Financing income: Interest income 23 31 Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 128 162 Gain on bond exchange 14 Change in fair value of instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss 123 Foreign exchange gain 36 201 316 Financing costs: Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 93 110 Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligations 143 146 Losses on early settlement 8 Change in fair value of instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss 37 Foreign exchange loss 116 Other interest expense 11 4 292 376 Net financing costs 91 60 The foreign exchange gain loss is economically hedged by cross currency interest rate swaps.
See note 25 for further details.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 88 9 Taxation 2009 2008 m m Current tax Current tax charge before exceptional items 13 28 Current tax credit on exceptional items 10 23 3 5 Adjustment for prior periods 68 198 65 193 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 21 3 Deferred tax on exceptional items 31 Adjustment for prior periods 14 12 4 15 Total taxation credit in the income statement 69 178 Reconciliation of taxation credit: 2009 2008 m m Profit loss before tax 25 2,732 Taxation charge credit at UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 7 779 Non-taxable non-deductible exceptional items 21 8 Non-taxable income non-deductible expenses 8 6 Tax losses 26 Over provision in prior periods 82 186 Impact of tax rate change 1 Impact of goodwill impairment 768 Other 3 6 69 178 In the year ended 31 December 2009 the effective tax rate is lower 2008: lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax primarily as a result of adjustments in respect of prior periods due to progress in the agreement with revenue authorities of prior periods tax liabilities.
In addition, a tax credit totalling 101 million 2008: credit of 35 million has been recognised directly in equity representing current tax of nil 2008: credit of nil and a deferred tax credit of 101 million 2008: credit of 35 million.
Tax losses of 26 million 2008: nil relate to a credit for utilisation of loan relationship deficits of 23 million 2008: nil, offset by a charge for unrecognised deferred tax on tax losses arising in the year of 9 million 2008: nil and a credit for other tax losses arising in the year of 12 million 2008: nil.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 89 9 Taxation continued Deferred tax assets liabilities recognised and their movements are: At Recognised At 1 January in the income Recognised 31 December 2009 statement in equity 2009 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 15 16 1 Intangible assets 95 13 82 Programme rights 4 2 2 Pension scheme deficits 49 25 98 122 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and derivatives 1 1 Share-based compensation 4 3 7 Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 3 3 Other 2 2 4 55 4 101 50 At Recognised At 1 January in the income Recognised 31 December 2008 statement in equity 2008 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 13 2 15 Intangible assets 113 18 95 Programme rights 3 1 4 Pension scheme deficits 31 17 35 49 Pensions funding payments 11 11 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and derivatives 2 1 1 Share-based compensation 4 4 Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 2 1 3 Other 6 4 2 75 15 35 55 At 31 December 2009 total deferred tax assets are 136 million 2008: 59 million and total deferred tax liabilities are 86 million 2008: 114 million.
Deferred tax assets of 625 million and 60 million 2008: 625 million and 83 million in respect of capital losses of 2,230 million 2008: 2,233 million and loan relationship deficits of 214 million 2008: 296 million respectively, have not been recognised due to uncertainties as to their amount and whether gain or income will arise in the appropriate form and relevant territory against which such losses could be utilised.
For the same reasons, deferred tax assets in respect of overseas losses of 10 million 2008: 10 million which time expire between 2017 and 2026 have not been recognised.
10 Dividends Dividends declared and recognised through equity in the year were: 2009 2008 m m Equity shares: Final 2007 dividend of 1.8 pence per share 70 Interim 2008 dividend of 0.675 pence per share 26 96 No 2009 interim dividend was declared.
No final dividend will be declared for 2009 2008 nil.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 90 11 Earnings per share 2009 2008 restated Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Profit loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 91 92 2,556 2,556 Exceptional items including related tax effect of a debit of 21 million, 2008: credit of 23 million 41 41 85 85 Profit loss for the year before exceptional items 132 133 2,471 2,471 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets including related tax credit of 14 million, 2008: 14 million 37 37 2,739 2,739 Adjustments to net financing costs including related tax effect of a credit 3 million, 2008: debit of 6 million 9 9 11 11 Prior period tax adjustments 82 82 186 186 Other tax adjustments 26 26 Profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, net financing cost adjustments and prior period and other tax adjustments 70 71 71 71 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,882 3,882 3,877 3,877 Dilution impact of share options million 13 9 Dilution impact of convertible bond million 192 3,882 4,087 3,877 3,886 Earnings loss per ordinary share 2.3p 2.3p 65.9 p 65.9 p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings loss per ordinary share 2.3p 2.3p 65.9 p 65.9 p Add: Loss per ordinary share on exceptional items 1.1p 1.0p 2.2p 2.2p Earnings loss per ordinary share before exceptional items 3.4p 3.3p 63.7 p 63.7 p Add: Loss per ordinary share on amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets 1.0p 0.9p 70.6p 70.6p Add: Gain loss per ordinary share on adjustments to net financing costs 0.2p 0.2p 0.3 p 0.3 p Subtract: Profit per ordinary share on prior period tax adjustments 2.1 p 2.1 p 4.8 p 4.8 p Subtract: Profit per ordinary share on other tax adjustments 0.7 p 0.6 p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share for the year 1.8p 1.7p 1.8p 1.8p An adjusted earnings per share figure has been disclosed because in the view of the directors this gives a fairer reflection of core business performance.
The basis for adjusted earnings per share has been changed in the year to more accurately reflect this and the 2008 comparison has been restated accordingly.
Net financing costs are now adjusted for the non-cash imputed pension interest charge, mark-to-market movements on swaps and foreign exchange movements on bonds, the impact of amortised cost adjustments from coupon step-ups, one off gains and losses on exchanges and buybacks of bonds and the effective interest on the onerous contract provision.
Internally generated intangible asset amortisation is now also included within adjusted earnings.
Diluted earnings per share have been impacted in 2009 by the issue of the 135 million Convertible Eurobond 2016 in November 2009.
The conversion of share options in 2008 is anti-dilutive, so the diluted loss per share in 2008 has been shown as the same as basic loss per share in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 91 12 Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Improvements to leasehold and buildings land and buildings Vehicles, equipment and fittings Total Long Short Owned Finance Leases m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 23 66 21 251 16 377 Additions 21 21 Reclassification from assets held for sale 27 3 30 Disposals and retirements 1 1 31 1 34 At 31 December 2008 49 69 20 241 15 394 Additions 14 14 Reclassification 5 1 4 Reclassification to assets held for sale 14 14 Disposals and retirements 4 40 44 At 31 December 2009 54 50 20 211 15 350 Depreciation At 1 January 2008 12 8 144 2 166 Charge for the year 1 1 1 30 3 36 Disposals and retirements 1 1 25 1 28 At 31 December 2008 13 8 149 4 174 Charge for the year 3 3 2 27 3 38 Impairment charge for the year see note 5 6 2 4 2 14 Reclassification 3 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 5 5 Disposals and retirements 1 31 32 At 31 December 2009 12 12 14 144 7 189 Net book value At 31 December 2009 42 38 6 67 8 161 At 31 December 2008 49 56 12 92 11 220 Included within the book values above is expenditure of 3 million 2008: 10 million on property, plant and equipment that is in the course of construction.
The amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is disclosed in note 33.
13 Intangible assets Customer Film contracts and Software libraries and development Goodwill Brands relationships Licences other Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 3,478 199 338 121 26 83 4,245 Acquisition of subsidiaries 6 1 7 Purchase of brands and software development 1 20 21 At 31 December 2008 3,484 200 338 121 46 84 4,273 Purchase of software development 13 13 Reclassification to assets held for sale 115 26 8 3 152 Disposals 4 1 2 7 2 16 At 31 December 2009 3,365 173 328 121 52 79 4,118 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2008 40 68 212 29 1 22 372 Charge for the year 18 22 9 8 9 66 Impairment charge 2,695 2,695 At 31 December 2008 2,735 86 234 38 9 31 3,133 Charge for the year 17 21 9 8 4 59 Reclassification to assets held for sale 81 9 5 2 97 Disposals 1 5 1 7 At 31 December 2009 2,654 94 249 47 12 32 3,088 Net book value At 31 December 2009 711 79 79 74 40 47 1,030 At 31 December 2008 749 114 104 83 37 53 1,140 Included within the book values above is expenditure of 6 million 2008: nil on software development that is in the course of development.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 92 13 Intangible assets continued Amortisation of intangible assets is shown within operating costs in the income statement.
Impairment tests for cash generating units containing goodwill The following units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill: 2009 2008 m m Broadcasting 265 265 Online 30 68 GMTV 33 33 SDN 76 76 ITV Studios 307 307 711 749 The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates and use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups current five-year plan.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 1%2.5% depending on the CGU and are appropriate because these are long-term businesses.
The growth rates used are consistent with the long-term average growth rates for the industry.
Impairment tests are carried out annually, or when indicators show that assets may be impaired.
The impairment tests carried out as a consequence have resulted in no impairment charge for the year 2008: 2,695 million being applied against the goodwill in these CGUs.
A pre-tax market discount rate of 12.9% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows for each CGU.
The pre-tax market discount rate used in the previous year on the same basis was 11.9%.
The discount rate has been revised to reflect the latest market assumptions for the Risk Free-rate and Equity Risk Premium and also to take into account the net cost of debt.
Management believe that a consistent discount rate can be applied to all CGUs due to similarity of the risk factors affecting them and their geographical spread.
Management believe that there is currently no reasonably possible change in discount rate that would reduce the headroom in any CGU to zero.
Broadcasting The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of broadcasting businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias broadcast businesses in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form ITV plc.
In 2007, as a result of the early adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, this goodwill was apportioned between the Broadcasting and Online CGUs based on the relative Net Present Value of the cash flows of the two segments.
No impairment charge arose in the Broadcasting CGU during the course of 2009 2008: 2,309 million, due to the anticipated stabilisation in the advertising market in 2010 and the cost savings achieved in 2009.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the advertising market would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
Broadcasting goodwill was reduced in the year by nil 2008: 57 million as required by IAS 12, following the recognition of deferred tax assets not recognised at the time of the Carlton Granada merger.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include the television share of advertising market, share of commercial impacts, programme and other costs.
The key assumption in assessing the recoverable amount of Broadcasting goodwill is the size of the TV advertising market.
In forming its assumptions about the TV advertising market, the Group has used a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and in-house estimates which place greater emphasis on recent experience.
These are broadly in the range of -3% to 3% for 2010 and 2% to 5% for 2011, with our assumptions at the cautious end of these ranges.
It is also assumed that ITV elects to renew its broadcasting licences in 2014.
The impairment charge in 2008 arose as a result of the downturn in the short-term outlook for the advertising market.
The outlook for advertising, including Online, improved in particular towards the end of 2009 and video on demand continued to grow.
Online As noted above, in 2007 as a result of the adoption of IFRS 8, Broadcasting goodwill was apportioned between the Broadcasting and Online CGUs based on the relative net present value of the cash flows of the two operating segments.
This resulted in 257 million of Online goodwill.
The remainder of the Online goodwill arose on the acquisition of Friends Reunited in 2005.
No impairment charge arose in the Online CGU during the course of 2009 2008: 308 million.
However, a net 34 million 2008: nil of goodwill associated with the disposal groups has been transferred from intangible assets to assets held for sale and a net 4 million was disposed of on the sale of the Enable Media business.
The key assumption on which the cash flows were based is the Groups online advertising revenue growth.
Online advertising is dependent on a number of factors including Onlines share of the total advertising market, as well as page impressions, unique users, average dwell times, video views and advertising rates CPT generated by the Groups online sites.
However, no one factor is key in determining the Groups online advertising revenue.
The Groups online revenue growth assumptions have been determined by using a combination of industry forecasts and in-house estimates of growth rates which are based on recent experience.
Industry estimates of growth in the online advertising market range from 4% to 17% in 2010 and 9% to 20% in 2011.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the revenue assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
The impairment charge in 2008 arose as a result of the downturn in the short-term outlook for the advertising market which is an area highly exposed to the general downturn in the economy and the over-supply of white-space advertising on online sites, leading to a significant fall in rates.
GMTV The goodwill in this CGU arose initially on the acquisition of a 75% shareholding in GMTV Limited in 2004.
The remaining 25% interest in this subsidiary was purchased in November 2009 and did not give rise to an adjustment to goodwill in accordance with IAS27.
No impairment charge arose in the GMTV CGU during the course of 2009 2008: 21 million.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based are as described under the Broadcasting CGU above.
The impairment charge in 2008 arose as a result of the downturn in the short-term outlook for the advertising market, which has since recovered in 2009. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 93 13 Intangible assets continued SDN The goodwill in this CGU arose on the acquisition of SDN the licence operator for DTT Multiplex A in 2005 and represented the wider strategic benefits of the acquisition to ITV plc.
The strategic benefits were principally the enhanced ability to promote Freeview as a platform, business relationships with the channels which are on Multiplex A and additional capacity available from 2010.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based are income to be earned from medium-term contracts and the market price of available multiplex video streams in the period up to and beyond digital switch over.
These assumptions have been determined by using a combination of current contract terms, recent market transactions and in-house estimates of video stream availability and pricing.
It is also assumed that the Multiplex A licence is renewed to 2022.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the income and availability assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
ITV Studios The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of production businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias production businesses in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form ITV plc.
The key assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include revenue including the share of total network programme budget obtained and margin growth.
These assumptions have been determined by using a combination of extrapolation of historical trends within the business, industry estimates and in-house estimates of growth rates in all markets.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the revenue and margin assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
14 Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint Associated ventures undertakings Total m m m At 1 January 2008 63 16 79 Additions 17 10 27 Share of attributable losses 18 18 Repayment of loans 7 10 17 Impairment 7 7 Exchange movement and other 2 2 At 31 December 2008 50 16 66 Additions 3 3 6 Share of attributable losses 5 2 7 Repayment of loans 4 4 Transfer to assets held for sale 47 47 Impairment 1 8 9 At 31 December 2009 5 5 The 3 million of additions to joint ventures during the year relate to further loans granted of 3 million to Freesat.
The 5 million share of losses of joint ventures includes 3 million from Screenvision US and 2 million from Freesat.
Of the share of attributable losses of joint ventures, 3 million was allocated to assets held for sale in line with their statement of financial position classification.
The 47 million transfer to assets held for sale relates to the carrying value of the joint venture investment in Screenvision US, now held for sale see note 27.
As an asset held for sale equity accounting ceases at the date of classification.
This has resulted in unrecognised profits of 5 million.
The joint venture investment in Freesat has also been impaired by 1 million during the year.
The investment is now carried at its estimated value in use of nil.
Any unrecognised losses following its impairment to nil, when equity accounting ceases, are immaterial.
The 3 million of additions in associated undertakings include loans granted of 2 million to ITN and 1 million to Carbon Media Limited, a new associated undertaking in the year.
The 2 million share of attributable losses in associated undertakings include 2 million from ITN.
ITN made 4 million of loan repayments during the year.
The 8 million impairment of associated undertaking investments includes 7 million for ITN and 1 million for Crackit Productions Limited.
Both are carried at their estimated value in use amount.
The aggregated summary financial information in respect of associates in which the Group has an interest is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Assets 52 66 Liabilities 70 63 Revenue 106 122 Loss profit 5 The aggregated summary financial information in respect of the Groups share of interests in joint ventures is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Non-current assets 31 37 Current assets 46 75 Current liabilities 24 37 Non-current liabilities 43 33 Revenue 71 84 Expense 73 102 The Groups interests in significant joint ventures and associated undertakings are listed in note ix in the ITV plc company financial statements section of this report.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 94 15 Available for sale financial assets 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 5 10 Additions 2 Impairment 2 7 Disposals 2 At 31 December 1 5 The Groups interests in available for sale financial assets are listed in note ix in the ITV plc Company financial statements section of this report.
The Groups investment in STV Group plc is marked to market.
However, following a significant and sustained decline in its share price an impairment of 1 million has been taken against this investment in the year.
A further impairment of 1 million relates to the impairment of the Groups 10% investment in Electric Farm Entertainment LLC to nil.
The 2 million disposal relates to the sale of the Groups interests in Ambassador Theatre Group Limited to a consortium including Exponent Private Equity LLP for a 3 million cash consideration resulting in a 1 million gain on sale see note 5.
16 Distribution rights 2009 2008 m m Cost At 1 January 82 68 Additions 17 14 At 31 December 99 82 Charged to income statement At 1 January 69 61 Expense for the year 14 8 At 31 December 83 69 Net book value 16 13 The expense for the year is accounted for within operating costs in the income statement.
17 Programme rights and other inventory 2009 2008 m m Commissions 73 125 Sports rights 23 57 Acquired films 207 237 Production 48 62 Prepayments 36 29 Other 1 6 388 516 Net programme rights and other inventory written off in the year was 11 million 2008: 29 million, including nil 2008: 2 million for reversals relating to inventory previously written down to net realisable value.
In addition to these amounts, there are exceptional costs for onerous contract provisions in respect of sports rights of 1 million 2008: 50 million, as disclosed in note 5.
Of the total provision 4 million 2008: 5 million has been written off against sports rights and nil 2008: 1 million has been written off against prepayments above.
35 million 2008: 44 million remains in provisions, see note 26. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 95 18 Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Due within one year: Trade receivables 353 336 Other receivables 22 24 Prepayments and accrued income 57 84 432 444 Due after more than one year: Trade receivables 7 9 Prepayments and accrued income 1 7 10 Total trade and other receivables 439 454 As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 8 million 2008: 14 million were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables relate mainly to the Broadcasting & Online and ITV Studios segments due to concerns over their recoverability.
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 14 9 Charged during the year 4 9 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 6 1 Unused amounts reversed 4 3 At 31 December 8 14 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not usually considered impaired.
As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 130 million 2008: 134 million were past due but not impaired.
Of this, 88 million 2008: 52 million relates to non-consolidated licensee customers in the Broadcasting & Online segment where the Group has supplier and customer relationships.
Further amounts relating to these same customers of 1 million 2008: 4 million and 7 million 2008: 14 million are included in current trade receivables and other receivables respectively.
There is also a credit of 61 million 2008: credit of 42 million included in trade and other payables relating to these customers.
The net balance due from non-consolidated licensees is 36 million, the majority of which relates to STV Group plc.
2009 2008 m m Current 230 211 Up to 30 days overdue 43 48 Between 30 and 90 days overdue 8 21 Over 90 days overdue 79 65 360 345 19 Current liabilities trade and other payables due within one year 2008 m 2009 m restated Trade payables 83 93 Social security 13 13 Other payables 162 223 Accruals and deferred income 388 394 Dividends 25 646 748 The 2008 comparatives for current liabilities have been restated to reflect the current year classification.
This is to show a better reflection of the nature of the Groups liabilities.
The Groups VAT creditor has been reclassified from trade payables to other payables and film creditors have been reclassified from trade payables to accruals where, at the reporting date, the programme is in rights but no invoice has been received.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 96 20 Current liabilities trade and other payables due after more than one year 2009 2008 m m Other payables 31 26 21 Non-current liabilities other payables 2009 2008 m m Other payables 12 15 22 Analysis of net debt Currency and 1 January Net cash flow non-cash 31 December 2009 and acquisitions movements 2009 m m m m Cash 503 20 4 479 Cash equivalents 113 11 1 103 Cash and cash equivalents 616 31 3 582 Cash held within the Disposal Group 4 4 Held to maturity investments 150 1 149 Loans and loan notes due within one year 252 249 2 1 Finance leases due within one year 7 7 8 8 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,192 221 47 1,366 Finance leases due after one year 72 7 65 1,523 35 48 1,440 Currency component of swaps held against Euro denominated bonds 147 39 108 Convertible Bond Equity Component 36 1 35 Amortised cost adjustment 30 10 20 Net debt 730 118 612 Currency and 1 January Net cash flow non-cash 31 December 2008 and acquisitions movements 2008 m m m m Cash 381 122 503 Cash equivalents 117 5 1 113 Cash and cash equivalents 498 117 1 616 Held to maturity investments 100 100 Loans and loan notes due within one year 27 25 250 252 Finance leases due within one year 6 6 7 7 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,184 110 102 1,192 Finance leases due after one year 79 7 72 1,296 79 148 1,523 Currency component of swaps held against Euro denominated bonds 30 117 147 Amortised cost adjustment 30 30 Net debt 668 62 730 Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 97 22 Analysis of net debt continued Included within cash equivalents is 62 million 2008: 67 million, the use of which is restricted to meeting finance lease commitments under programme sale and leaseback commitments and gilts of 34 million 2008: 33 million over which the unfunded pension promises have a charge.
The purpose of the amortised cost adjustment is to exclude the impact of the coupon step-up on total net debt.
ITVs Standard & Poors credit rating was lowered to BB in August 2008, resulting in a coupon step-up in the 2011 and 2017 bonds.
The recalculation of the amortised cost carrying values as required by IAS 39 resulted in an increase in net debt of 30 million as at 31 December 2008.
This increase will be unwound in future years as a reduction in interest expense.
In February 2009 ITV raised a net 50 million through a 200 million covenant free loan with a maturity of March 2019, secured against the purchase of 4.5% March 2019 gilts with a nominal value of 138 million for a cost of 150 million.
The cash receipt relating to the 200 million loan and the cash payment relating to the 150 million gilts are both presented within cash flows from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows, as the gilts are held as security for the 200 million loan and thus form an integral part of the financing transaction.
The cost of the 200 million loan is fixed at 8.85% for the first three years and a variable rate thereafter, depending in part on the performance of an interest rate algorithm.
The total return on the gilts receivable by ITV is 11% of the nominal value.
The gilts are accounted for as a held to maturity investment.
In March 2009 ITV repaid its 250 million Eurobond and drew down a 125 million covenant free loan with a maturity of May 2013 at a variable rate of 12-month sterling LIBOR plus 6.814%.
In May 2009 ITV completed a 100 million tap of the existing 325 million October 2015 Eurobond raising net proceeds of 58 million with an effective interest rate of 15.6%.
In June 2009, under the terms of an exchange offer, ITV repaid 81 million 69 million of the 500 million October 2011 bond and exchanged at par 188 million of the 2011 bonds for the issuance at par of new bonds with a maturity of June 2014 and carrying a coupon of 10%: this resulted in an accounting gain of 14 million.
A pro rata proportion of the cross-currency interest rate swaps entered into at the time of issue of the 2011 bond were restructured and extended to match the terms of the new 2014 bonds.
Under the terms of the swaps ITV receives 10% on a notional amount of 188 million and pays 12.9% on a notional amount of 63 million and three-month sterling LIBOR plus 7.9% on a notional amount of 63 million.
At maturity of the swaps ITV receives 188 million to match its principal repayment to bondholders and pays 126 million.
In October 2009 ITV repurchased 75 million of the 125 million May 2013 loan at a loss of 6 million.
In November 2009 ITV issued a 135 million convertible Eurobond with a maturity date of November 2016.
The coupon on the bond is 4.0% and the initial conversion price is 70.44 pence, a premium on issue of 40%.
The bonds are accounted for partly as debt and partly as equity, net of issue costs.
The debt and equity components are accreted to par over the life of the bond: the accretion of the equity component is accounted for as a transfer from other reserves to retained losses.
The effective interest rate on the carrying value of the debt component is 9.3%.
In November and December 2009 ITV repurchased 114 million nominal value of the remaining October 2011 bonds, resulting in an accounting loss of 2 million.
As at 31 December, 2009 118 million of these bonds remained outstanding.
Subsequent to the repurchase, ITV entered into new cross currency interest rate swaps to offset existing swaps.
Under the terms of the cross currency interest rate swaps matching the 118 million 2011 bonds, ITV receives 4.75% on a notional amount of 118 million and pays 26.7% on a notional amount of 5 million and three-month LIBOR minus 4.1% on a notional amount of 33 million.
The net interest rate payable by ITV reflects the impact of exchange and interest rate differences between the original swaps and the new swaps.
At maturity of the swaps ITV receives 118 million to match its principal repayment to bondholders and pays 38 million.
As at 31 December 2009 the currency element of the cross currency interest rate swaps is a 108 million asset 2008: 147 million asset and this offsets the exchange rate movement of the 2011 and 2014 bonds.
The interest element of the swap is a 12 million asset 2008: 5 million asset resulting in an overall net asset total at 31 December 2009 of 120 million 2008: 152 million net asset total.
2008 In July 2008 ITV issued a 110 million bond with a maturity of March 2013 and a coupon of three-month sterling LIBOR plus 2.7%.
During 2008 ITV redeemed loan notes totalling 25 million.
In November 2008 ITV redeemed for cash a 100 million senior note issued by UBS AG UBS under UBSs Euro Note Programme.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 98 22 Analysis of net debt continued Ageing of borrowings 2009 2008 Loans and Finance Loans and Finance loan notes leases Total loan notes leases Total m m m m m m Current In one year or less, or on demand 1 8 9 252 7 259 Non-current In more than one year but not more than two years 106 9 115 8 8 In more than two years but not more than five years 316 39 355 603 26 629 In more than five years 944 17 961 589 38 627 1,366 65 1,431 1,192 72 1,264 Total 1,367 73 1,440 1,444 79 1,523 Loans repayable between one and two years Loans repayable between one and two years as at 31 December 2009 comprise an unsecured 118 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 6.0% and matures in October 2011.
After cross currency swaps the net amount repayable in October 2011 is 38 million.
Loans repayable between two and five years Loans repayable between two and five years as at 31 December 2009 includes an unsecured 50 million bank loan which has a coupon of 12-month sterling LIBOR plus 6.814% and matures in May 2013, an unsecured 110 million Eurobond which has a coupon of three-months sterling LIBOR plus 2.7% and matures in March 2013 and an unsecured 188 million Eurobond 126 million net of cross currency swaps which has a coupon of 10.0% and matures in June 2014.
Loans repayable after five years Loans repayable after five years includes an unsecured 425 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.375% and matures in October 2015, an unsecured 135 million convertible Eurobond which has a coupon of 4.0% and matures in November 2016, an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 7.375% and matures in January 2017 and an unsecured bank loan for 200 million which has a coupon of 8.85% for its first three years and a variable rate thereafter which matures in March 2019.
Finance leases Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 2009 2008 Minimum lease Minimum payments Interest Principal lease payments Interest Principal m m m m m m In one year or less 12 4 8 11 4 7 In more than one year but not more than five years 58 10 48 45 11 34 In more than five years 18 1 17 40 2 38 88 15 73 96 17 79 Finance leases principally comprise the lease of programme titles under sale and leaseback arrangements and an embedded lease relating to the provision of news.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases at 31 December 2009 was 9 million 2008: 11 million.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 99 23 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, price risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board for managing each of these risks including levels of authority on the type and use of financial instruments.
Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures.
The treasury department reports regularly to the Audit Committee and treasury operations are subject to periodic reviews.
Market risk a Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is therefore exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is to hedge material foreign currency denominated costs at the time of commitment and to hedge a proportion of foreign currency denominated revenues on a rolling 12-month basis unless a natural hedge exists.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short-term imbalances.
The Euro denominated interest and principal payments under the 118 million and 188 million bonds have been fully hedged by cross-currency interest rate swaps.
The Groups investments in subsidiaries are not hedged as those currency positions are considered to be long term in nature.
At 31 December 2009, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2 million 2008: 2 million higher lower.
Equity would have been 13 million 2008: 9 million higher lower.
At 31 December 2009, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the Euro with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 3 million 2008: 2 million higher lower.
Equity would have been 2 million 2008: 5 million higher lower.
b Price risk The Group is not exposed to any material price risk.
c Interest rate risk The Groups principal interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings and associated interest rate swaps.
Borrowings issued at or swapped to floating rates expose the Group to interest rate risk.
The Groups interest rate policy is to have between 50% and 70% of its total indebtedness held at fixed rates over the medium term in order to provide a balance between certainty of cost and benefit from lower floating rates.
The Group uses interest rate swaps and options in order to achieve the desired mix between fixed and floating rates.
All of the Groups interest rate swaps are classified as fair value through profit or loss so any movement in the fair value goes through the income statement rather than equity.
At 31 December 2009, if interest rates had increased decreased by 0.1%, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1 million 2008: 1 million lower higher.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
It arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers, cash and held to maturity investments.
There is also credit risk relating to the Groups own credit rating as this impacts the availability and cost of future finance.
a Trade and other receivables see note 18 The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The majority of trade receivables relate to airtime sales contracts with advertising agencies and advertisers.
Credit insurance has been taken out against these companies to minimise the impact on the Group in the event of a possible default.
b Cash and held to maturity investments The Group operates strict investment guidelines with respect to surplus cash and the emphasis is on preservation of capital.
Counterparty limits for cash deposits are largely based upon long-term ratings published by the major credit rating agencies and perceived state support.
Deposits longer than six months require the approval of the General Purpose Committee.
c Borrowings ITVs credit ratings with Standard & Poors and Moodys Investor Service are B B1 respectively and are sub-investment grade with both agencies.
The combination of ITVs lower credit rating and the deterioration in credit conditions adversely impacts the availability and costs of future finance.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups financing policy is to fund itself for the long term by using debt instruments with a range of maturities.
It is substantially funded from the UK and European capital markets and it has a bilateral bank facility.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn bank facilities and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.
This monitoring includes financial ratios to assess possible future credit ratings and headroom and takes into account the accessibility of cash and cash equivalents.
At 31 December 2009 the Group has available 75 million 2008: 650 million of undrawn committed facilities.
The 75 million facility is provided by one bank and is secured on advertising receivables.
The facility has no financial covenants and matures in May 2013.
The reduction from 2008 reflects the cancellation of the 450 million syndicated facility and the drawing down of a 125 million loan.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 100 23 Financial risk factors continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the statement of financial position.
Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2009 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 2,167 108 215 639 1,205 Held to maturity investments 288 15 15 45 213 Trade and other payables 677 646 23 8 Other non-current payables 12 10 2 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 165 13 79 64 9 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflows Inflows Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss Outflows 77 61 16 Inflows 77 61 16 2,403 726 154 540 983 Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2008 restated m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 1,933 347 82 780 724 Trade and other payables 774 748 18 7 1 Other non-current payables 15 1 14 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 187 9 8 155 15 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflows 31 31 Inflows 40 40 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss Outflows 80 57 17 6 Inflows 87 60 20 7 2,519 1,074 90 645 710 2008 is restated as clarified by the amendment to IFRS 7 and now includes contractual interest.
Borrowings are now shown gross rather than net of cross currency swaps relating to the 2011 118 million and 2014 188 million Eurobonds, which are now shown separately within derivative financial instruments.
Held to maturity investments are included within the table above because the 138 million March 2019 gilts are used as security against the 200 million 2019 loan, and the net repayment in 2019 is 62 million.
Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes borrowings disclosed in note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company equity.
Equity comprises issued capital, reserves and retained earnings disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Groups objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, increase gross debt by issuing new debt or drawing down upon facilities or reduce net debt by issuing new shares or selling assets.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 101 24 Financial instruments a Fair values versus carrying amounts The tables below provide fair value information for all financial instruments listed in note 24 c, other than those where the carrying value is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Book value Fair value 2009 2008 2009 2008 Assets Maturity m m m m Held to maturity investments Mar 19 149 143 The fair value of held to maturity investments is based on quoted market bid prices at the reporting date.
Book value Fair value 2009 2008 2009 2008 Liabilities Maturity m m m m 118 million Eurobond previously 500 million Eurobond Oct 11 106 493 109 391 110 million Eurobond Mar 13 110 110 105 110 50 million loan May 13 50 58 188 million Eurobond Jun 14 156 187 425 million Eurobond previously 325 million Eurobond Oct 15 384 323 387 211 135 million Convertible bond Nov 16 96 147 250 million Eurobond Jan 17 264 266 240 163 200 million loan Mar 19 200 244 Other loans 1 2 1 2 1,367 1,194 1,478 877 Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
The book value of the 2011 Eurobond decreased in the year principally as a result of an exchange offer and repurchases of the 2011 bonds in November and December 2009 see note 22.
After taking account of cross currency interest rate swaps, ITVs net principal repayment on the 2011 Eurobond will be 38 million in 2011.
The book value of the 2015 425 million Eurobond increased due to the 100 million tap of the existing 325 million Eurobond on the same terms, raising net proceeds of 58 million.
The fair value of the 135 million Convertible bond is based upon the par value, whereas the bonds are accounted for partly as debt and partly as equity, net of issue costs, as described in note 22.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 102 24 Financial instruments continued b Fair value hierarchy for instruments measured at fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available for sale financial instruments STV shares 1 1 Available for sale gilts 34 34 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 154 154 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 2 Total 191 35 156 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 33 33 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1 1 Total 34 34 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Interest rate swaps and options are accounted for at their fair value based upon termination prices.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for at the difference between the contract exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 103 24 Financial instruments continued c Financial instruments application The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to each financial position caption as follows: Held to At fair value Derivatives maturity Loan and through profit used for Available investments receivables or loss hedging for sale Total At 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Statement of financial position assets Available for sale financial assets 1 1 Held to maturity investments 149 149 Derivative financial instruments 156 156 Trade and other receivables 439 439 Cash and cash equivalents 548 34 582 149 987 156 35 1,327 At fair value Other Derivatives through profit financial used for liabilities or loss hedging Total At 31 December 2009 m m m m Statement of financial position liabilities Borrowings 1,440 1,440 Derivative financial instruments 34 34 34 1,440 1,474 At fair value Derivatives through profit Loan and used for Available receivables or loss hedging for sale Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m Statement of financial position assets Available for sale financial assets 5 5 Derivative financial instruments 208 10 218 Trade and other receivables 454 454 Cash and cash equivalents 583 33 616 1,037 208 10 38 1,293 Other At fair value Derivatives through profit financial used for or loss hedging liabilities Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Statement of financial position liabilities Borrowings 250 1,273 1,523 Derivative financial instruments 31 1 32 281 1 1,273 1,555 Excludes cash in the disposal group of 4 million.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 104 25 Derivative financial instruments The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments analysed by type of contract.
2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current portion: Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 3 3 2 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 10 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss 2 1 7 4 5 4 19 7 Non-current portion: Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 151 30 194 25 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss 5 151 30 199 25 156 34 218 32 Interest rate swap assets as at 31 December 2009 include 120 million of cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 118 million 2011 Eurobond and the 188 million 2014 Eurobond see note 22.
The remaining 34 million of assets relates to a number of floating rate swaps.
ITV has a 125 million swap matched against half of the 2017 250 million bond.
Under this swap ITV receives 6.125% to match the original bond coupon and pays three-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.51% with the three-month sterling LIBOR capped at 5.25% for rates between 5.25% and 8.0%.
ITV also has a 162.5 million swap matched against part of the 2015 425 million bond.
Under this swap ITV receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and pays six-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.3%.
In addition, ITV has other swaps totalling 162.5 million matched against part of the 2015 425 million bond.
Under these swaps ITV receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and pays a weighted average of three-month sterling LIBOR plus 1.45%.
Interest rate swap liabilities of 33 million as at 31 December 2009 relate to various fixed rate swaps.
ITV has a 162.5 million swap with a maturity of October 2015 under which it receives three-month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.35%.
The bank has the right to cancel the swap.
ITV also has a 162.5 million swap with a maturity of October 2015 under which it receives six-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.3%, and pays the higher of six-month sterling LIBOR minus 0.2% or six-month US$ LIBOR minus 1.0%, set in arrears or in advance.
In addition, ITV has a 125 million swap with a maturity of January 2017 under which it receives three-month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.31%.
All forward foreign exchange contracts hedge underlying currency exposures.
The forward foreign exchange contracts which were designated as cash flow hedges related to contractual payments for sport and other programme rights and transponder costs.
All cash flow hedges outstanding at 31 December 2008 matured during 2009.
26 Provisions Contract Restructuring Property Other provisions provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 47 16 2 19 84 Additions in the year 1 7 16 24 Unwind of discount 3 3 Utilised in the year 16 15 1 3 35 At 31 December 2009 35 8 17 16 76 Of the provisions 47 million 2008: 43 million are shown within current liabilities.
Contract provisions of 35 million are for onerous sports rights commitments: there were additions of 4 million in 2009, including 3 million from the unwind of the discount on the provision, and 13 million was utilised.
The remaining 3 million of the CSA contract provision was utilised in the year.
Restructuring provisions of 8 million are in respect of previously announced efficiency programmes.
The 15 million utilised in 2009 was in respect of regional news.
Property provisions of 17 million mainly relate to onerous lease contracts due to empty space created by the significant reduction in headcount in 2009.
Utilisation will be over the anticipated life of the leases or earlier if exited.
Of the additions of 16 million, 14 million has been classified as an operating exceptional cost in relation to a provision in respect of Grays Inn Road.
Other provisions of 16 million mainly relate to potential liabilities that may arise as a result of Boxclever having been placed into administration, most of which relate to pension arrangements.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 105 27 Assets held for sale 2009 m Property, plant and equipment 7 Investment in joint ventures 43 Disposal group assets note 28 28 Assets held for sale 78 2009 m Disposal group liabilities note 28 3 Liabilities held for sale 3 The liabilities held for sale are new in the year and are disclosed below.
The movements in assets held for sale are summarised in the table below: 2009 m At 1 January 2009 3 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 9 Impairment of properties held for sale 5 Transfer from investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings 47 Net repayment of loans from investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings 4 Assets classed as disposal group note 28 60 Impairment of disposal group note 28 32 At 31 December 2009 78 During the year the Group began actively marketing properties in Birmingham and Bristol, which are deemed to be surplus to future operating requirements and for which disposal is anticipated to be completed within one year.
These properties were transferred from property, plant and equipment at a net book value of 9 million.
The property in Bedford, classified as an asset held for sale in prior periods, continues to be classified as held for sale at the end of the year.
Impairments of 5 million have been recognised in respect of these properties reflecting the currently challenging property market conditions.
The Group is actively marketing its 50% interest in Screenvision US Technicolor Cinema Advertising LLC and has classified this joint venture investment as an asset held for sale carried at 47 million.
The investment being sold is not core to the Groups main activities and is disclosed in the Other segment note 2.
During the year the Group received net repayments of loans of 4 million from this entity.
This sale is expected to complete within one year.
The Group continues to also actively market its interest in Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited, an asset held for sale carried at nil.
The investment being sold is not core to the Groups main activities and is disclosed in the Other segment.
28 Disposal group The disposal group consists of the non-core business, Friends Reunited.
In August 2009, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell Friends Reunited to Brightsolid Limited for a total cash consideration of 25 million with a variable component dependent on the net current assets of the business on the date of completion.
On 2November, the Office of Fair Trading referred the acquisition to the Competition Commission for further investigation.
The Competition Commission is currently reviewing the proposed transaction with a final decision expected by 16 April 2010.
The Friends Reunited social networking business, within the Broadcasting & Online segment, is consequently presented as held for sale.
At 31 December 2009 the disposal group comprised assets of 28 million less liabilities of 3 million.
An impairment loss of 32 million on the remeasurement of the disposal group to the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell has been recognised in non-operating exceptionals see note 5.
31 December 2009 m Intangible assets 23 Trade and other receivables due within one year 1 Cash and cash equivalents 4 Disposal group assets 28 31 December 2009 m Trade and other payables due within one year 3 Disposal group liabilities 3 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 106 29 Acquisitions and disposals of businesses Acquisitions and disposals in 2009 GMTV On 26 November 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 25% interest in the shares of GMTV Limited, the national breakfast time channel 3 licensee, taking its total percentage of shareholding to 100%.
The results of this entity have always been disclosed within the consolidated income statement of the Group at 100% with an adjustment made to reflect the previous non-controlling interests share.
The impact of the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interest is reflected in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The fair value of the consideration paid is 23 million.
The non-controlling interest reserve of 8 million was debited on acquisition with the excess of consideration over the identifiable net assets acquired of 15 million debited to retained losses in accordance with IAS 27.
Friends Reunited In January 2009 the Group paid 50 million in respect of the final payment of the earn-out arrangement relating to the Friends Reunited acquisition undertaken in 2005 previously disclosed within other payables in note 19 of this report.
Disposals The Group disposed of its 100% interest in Enable Media Limited on the 22 September 2009 for nil cash consideration resulting in a loss on disposal of 6 million.
The Groups 63% interest in JFMG Limited was sold on 18 February 2009 for 1 million cash consideration resulting in a gain on disposal of 1 million.
30 Called up share capital The Groups share capital is the same as that of ITV plc.
Details of this are given in note v in the ITV plc Company financial statements section of this annual report.
Employees Benefit Trust The Group has investments in its own shares as a result of shares purchased by the ITV Employees Benefit Trust.
As at 31 December 2009 the trust held the following shares: 2009 2008 Number Market value Number Market value of shares m of shares m ITV Employees Benefit Trust 3,528,761 2 4,144,550 2 The nominal value of own shares held is 0.35 million 2008: 0.41 million.
The shares will be held in trust until such time as they may be transferred to participants of the various Group share schemes.
Rights to dividends have been waived by the ITV Employees Benefit Trust in respect of shares held which do not relate to restricted shares under the Deferred Share Award Plan.
The total number of shares held by the trust at 31 December 2009 is 3,528,761 2008: 4,144,550 ordinary shares representing 0.09% 2008: 0.11% of ITVs issued share capital.
In accordance with the Trust Deed, the Trustees of the ITV Employees Benefit Trust have the power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment including shares held within that trust.
During the year the following ordinary shares were purchased released from the above trust to satisfy awards vesting under the Groups share schemes as follows: Number of shares Nominal value Shares released from: released purchased Scheme ITV Employees Benefit Trust 8,175,476 817,548 ITV Deferred Share Award Plan 64,945 6,495 Carlton Deferred Award Bonus Plan 531,785 53,179 Granada Commitment Scheme 634,112 63,411 ITV Employee Bonus Plan 8,790,529 879,053 Shares purchased Shares released under the ITV Employee Bonus Plan include 264,784 shares awarded to all employees in March 2009 and an additional 369,328 shares awarded to all eligible employees in December 2009 as described on page 27.
31 Contingent liabilities There has been a disagreement between the Group, STV Group plc and the two licence holding subsidiaries, STV Central and STV North, as to the amounts of money due and payable to the Group.
A legal claim, based upon the balances outstanding at 30 April 2009, for approximately 38 million in respect of outstanding invoices, was filed on 22 September 2009 and Particulars of Claim were served on 24 September 2009.
The Group recognises that certain amounts are due to STV and these and other amounts are the subject of a counterclaim served by STV on 13 November 2009.
Prior to the litigation, the Group and STV have come to an arrangement whereby amounts owed to each other will be set off, although until the current litigation is resolved, that amount cannot be accurately identified.
For the period after 30 April 2009, the Group and STV have agreed to operate a monthly payment on account scheme so that the operations may continue effectively.
In a separate action STV Central and STV North issued proceedings on 16 November 2009 against ITV Network and other Group companies in relation to the exploitation of new media rights in the UK.
Through the proceedings STV Central and STV North seek an injunction to prevent the ITV Network from entering into any UK wide deals involving new media rights and seek declarations in relation to how the rights are owned and may be exploited.
The Group rejects this claim and intends to defend it robustly.
No provision has been made in these financial statements for this claim.
On 24 February 2010, STV issued a letter alleging that the Group has acted with unfair prejudice against the interests of STV and that ITV Network is in breach of its fiduciary duties to STV.
ITV Network rejects these allegations and will vigorously defend any claim that is brought.
There are other contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and guarantees, and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of businesses.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts 107 32 Operating leases The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2009 2008 m m Not later than one year 13 16 Later than one year and not later than five years 39 45 Later than five years 145 152 197 213 The Group leases a number of properties principally comprising offices and studios under operating leases.
Leases typically run for a period of between five and ten years and may or may not have an option to renew after that date.
Lease payments are typically increased every five years to reflect market rentals.
None of the leases include contingent rentals.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the reporting date is 5 million 2008: 8 million.
The total operating lease expenditure recognised during the year was 14 million 2008: 19 million and total sublease payments received totalled 4 million 2008: 4 million.
33 Capital and other commitments There are 1 million of capital commitments at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: 1 million.
There are also a number of operating commitments in respect of programming entered into in the ordinary course of business.
34 Subsequent events In January and February 2010 the Group repurchased 42 million of the 2015 425 million Eurobonds.
In February 2010 the Group repurchased 27 million 23 million nominal of the 2011 118 million Eurobonds, leaving the net repayable in 2011 after cross currency swaps as 15 million.
35 Related party transactions Transactions with associated undertakings and joint ventures: 2009 2008 m m Sales to associated undertakings 1 2 Purchases from joint ventures 2 1 Purchases from associated undertakings 43 42 The purchases from associated undertakings relate to purchase of news services from ITN.
2009 2008 m m Amounts owed by joint ventures 25 27 Amounts owed by associated undertakings 4 7 Amounts owed by pension scheme 1 1 Amounts owed by joint ventures relate to loan balances with Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited which have been fully provided for at the reporting date.
All transactions with associated undertakings and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business on an arms-length basis.
None of the balances are secured.
Amounts paid to the Groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 6.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management consists of ITV plc executive, non-executive directors and ITVs senior executive team.
Key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 10 6 Post-employment benefits 1 Termination benefits 2 2 Share-based compensation 5 5 18 13 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 108 ITV plc Company Financial Statements Company balance sheet 2009 2009 2008 2008 At 31 December: Note m m m m Fixed assets: Investments in subsidiary undertakings iii 1,671 1,699 Held to maturity investments 149 Derivative financial instruments 151 194 1,971 1,893 Current assets: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 173 78 Prepayments and accrued income 1 Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 146 283 319 362 Creditors amounts falling due within one year: Borrowings iv 252 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 173 88 Accruals and deferred income 21 33 Other creditors 53 Dividends 25 194 451 Net current assets liabilities 125 89 Total assets less current liabilities 2,096 1,804 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year: Borrowings iv 1,366 1,192 Derivative financial instruments 29 25 1,395 1,217 Net assets 701 587 Capital and reserves: Called up share capital v 389 389 Share premium vi 120 120 Other reserves vi 71 36 Profit and loss account vi 121 42 Shareholders funds equity 701 587 The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: Ian Griffiths Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 109 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements i Accounting policies Basis of preparation As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account, dealing with the results of the parent company, has not been presented.
Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the grounds that it is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent to that standard.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The investment in the Companys subsidiaries is recorded at cost, adjusted for the effect of the adoption of UITF 41.
Annual FRS 20 share based payment compensation costs are recharged to the subsidiarys through the profit and loss account.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, with subsequent measurement at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The difference between initial fair value and the redemption value is recorded in the profit and loss account over the period of the liability on an effective interest basis.
Derivatives and other financial instruments The Company uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and other foreign exchange rates.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the movement recorded in the profit and loss account within net financing costs.
The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by using the difference between the contract exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
Third party valuations are used to fair value the Companys derivatives.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
ii Employees Four 2008: four directors of ITV plc were the only employees of the Company during the year.
The costs relating to these directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
iii Investments in subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note ix.
The movements during 2009 were as follows: m At 1 January 2009 1,699 Impairment 28 At 31 December 2009 1,671 An impairment charge of 28 million was recognised in respect of Friends Reunited now carried at its fair value less costs to sell of 25 million.
iv Borrowings Loan repayable after more than one year Loans repayable after more than one year as at 31 December 2009 comprise an unsecured 118 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 6.0% and matures in October 2011, an unsecured loan from a bank for 50 million which has a coupon of 12-month sterling LIBOR plus 6.814% and matures in May 2013, an unsecured 110 million Eurobond which has a coupon of three-months sterling LIBOR plus 2.7% and matures in March 2013, an unsecured 188 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 10.0% and matures in June 2014, an unsecured 425 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.375% and matures in October 2015, an unsecured 135 million convertible Eurobond which has a coupon of 4.0% and matures in November 2016, an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 7.375% and matures in January 2017 and an unsecured loan from a bank for 200 million which has a coupon of 8.85% for its first three years and a variable rate thereafter which matures in March 2019.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 110 v Called up share capital Allotted, issued Authorised and fully paid 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Ordinary shares of 10 pence each Authorised: 8,000,000,000 2008: 5,826,377,627 800 583 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 3,889,129,751 2008: 3,889,129,751 389 389 Total 800 583 389 389 The Companys ordinary shares give shareholders equal rights to vote, receive dividends and to the repayment of capital.
There have been no issued ordinary share capital movements during the period.
vi Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Share Share Other Profit and capital premium reserves loss account Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 389 120 36 42 587 Retained profit for year for equity shareholders 67 67 Share-based compensation 11 11 Equity portion of the convertible bond 35 1 36 At 31 December 2009 389 120 71 121 701 The profit after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of ITV plc is 67 million year ended 31 December 2008: loss of 218 million before dividends declared of nil 2008: 96 million.
vii Contingent liabilities Under a group registration, the Company is jointly and severally liable for VAT at 31 December 2009 of 25 million 31 December 2008: 13 million.
The Company has guaranteed certain finance and operating lease obligations of subsidiary undertakings.
There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and guarantees and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of businesses and in respect of certain trading and other obligations of certain subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
viii Capital and other commitments There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: none.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 111 ix Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2009, all of which are wholly-owned directly or indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity 1 12 Yard Productions Production of television programmes 2 3sixtymedia Limited Supplier of facilities for television productions Carlton Communications Limited Holding company Friends Reunited Limited Operation of community based websites GMTV Limited Production and broadcast of breakfast time television under national Channel 3 licence Granada Limited Holding company Granada Ventures Limited Production and distribution of video and DVD products ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes ITV Consumer Limited Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile services ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Global Entertainment Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films 3 ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning television programmes ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group ITV Studios Limited Production of television programmes ITV2 Limited Operation of digital television channels SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A 4 Granada Media Australia Pty Limited Production of television programmes 5 Granada Produktion fr Film und Fernsehen GmbH Production of television programmes 5, 6 Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH Production of television programmes 7 Silverback AB Production and distribution of television programmes 8 ITV Global Entertainment, Inc Distribution of television programmes 8 ITV Studios, Inc. formerly Granada Entertainment USA Production of television programmes 9 Jaffe Braunstein Entertainment LLC Production of television programmes 1 A partnership.
3 Interest in company limited by guarantee.
4 Incorporated and registered in Australia.
5 Incorporated and registered in Germany.
7 Incorporated and registered in Sweden.
8 Incorporated and registered in the USA.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 112 ix Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments continued Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2009 the following holdings in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments: Interest in ordinary Interest in ordinary share capital share capital 2009 2008 Name Note % % Principal activity Carbon Media Limited a 25.00 Production of television programmes Crackit Productions Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Freesat UK Limited b 50.00 50.00 Provision of a standard and high definition enabled digital satellite proposition Independent Television News Limited a 40.00 40.00 Supply of news services to broadcasters in the UK and elsewhere ISAN UK Limited a 25.00 Operates voluntary numbering system for the identification of audiovisual works Mammoth Screen Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes 1 Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited b 50.00 50.00 European cinema advertising 2 STV Group plc c 7.36 7.36 Television broadcasting in central and north Scotland 1, 3 Technicolor Cinema Advertising LLC b 50.00 50.00 US cinema advertising 3 Electric Farm Entertainment LLC c 10.00 10.00 Digital studio company 1 Classified as an Asset Held for Sale.
2 Incorporated and registered in Scotland.
3 Incorporated and registered in USA.
c Available for sale financial asset.
x Post balance sheet events In January and February 2010 the Company repurchased 42 million of the 2015 425 million Eurobonds.
In February 2010 the Company repurchased 27million 23 million nominal of the 2011 118 million Eurobonds, leaving the net repayable in 2011 after cross currency swaps as 15 million.
