Registrars and transfer office Share dealing services All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building receive corporate documents should, in the first instance, be directed societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, the Companys registrars offer to Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, online and telephone dealing for UK resident shareholders through Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0LA.
To use this service shareholders should contact Capita: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network charges from the UK and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK 0871 664 0364 from the UK calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network charges or 1 890 946 375 from Ireland Alternatively you could email them at: shareholder.
com Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of company mailings because ShareGift they have multiple accounts should write to Capita to have the accounts ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may amalgamated.
wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value By logging on to www.
com shareholders can benefit makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
The scheme is from a number of online services as follows: administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further information can be obtained by contacting them: Cast your proxy vote online: 020 7930 3737 Elect to receive shareholder communication electronically: www.
org View your holding balance, indicative share price and valuation: View transactions on your holding and dividend payments you have Share price information received: The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on Ceefax and on the Company website at www.
Update your address or register a bank mandate instruction to have dividends paid directly to your bank account: Access a wide range of shareholder information including downloadable forms.
com You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on your share certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Shareholder information 114 The Unclaimed Assets Register Unauthorised brokers Boiler Room Scams The Company participates in The Unclaimed Assets Register, which Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, provides a search facility for financial assets, which may have been offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
lost or forgotten and which donates 10% of its public search fees to These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK a wide range of UK charities.
For further information and to obtain shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless a search request form contact: or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
The Unclaimed Assets Register PO Box 9501 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Nottingham NG80 1WD Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
0870 241 1713 Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting search@uar.
co. uk involved by visiting: www.
uk pages register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or by Unsolicited mail visiting: The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members available to the public.
As a consequence of this some shareholders www.
uk might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount If the calls persist, hang up.
of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS : If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive FREEPOST 29 LON20771 payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA London W1E 0ZT can be contacted by completing an online form at: Alternatively you can register online or request an application form by www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml telephone or by email.
MPS will then notify the bodies that support its Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will service that you do not wish to receive unsolicited mail.
only be included in company mailings.
0845 703 4599 More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: mps@dma.
uk Identity theft Registered office Tips for protecting your ITV plc shares: The London Television Centre Upper Ground Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares London SE1 9LT electronically in CREST via a nominee.
020 7157 3000 Keep all correspondence from Capita in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding.
Company registration number 4967001 If you change address inform Capita in writing or via the Shareholder Company website Portal.
If you receive a letter from Capita regarding a change of Investor and shareholder related information can be found on the address but have not recently moved please contact them Company website at: immediately.
com Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
Financial calendar If you change your bank account, inform Capita of the details of your new account.
You can do this via post or online using the Annual General Meeting 7 May 2010 Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any letters Capita sends you Interim Management Statement May 2010 about this.
Half year results announcement August 2010 If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
