Glossary Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to Easter adjustment To adjust for the MTL Multiple traffic lights Nutritional help inspire school children to take more timing of Easter: 2008 09 included an labels which provide effective at-a-glance exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched Easter Sunday trading week.
2007 08 information customers need to make in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, included two Good Friday trading weeks healthier choices when shopping.
Around primary and secondary schools as well and an Easter Sunday trading week.
5,000 Sainsburys products carry our Wheel as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
co. uk activekids ESOP trusts Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
AGM Annual General Meeting This year the AGM will be held on Wednesday 15 July Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an Organic Organic farming prohibits the 2009 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference independent consumer label that use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, growth Centre, Broad Sanctuary, London SW1P 3EE guarantees a fair deal for marginalised regulators and additives in livestock feed.
workers and small scale farmers in The International Federation of Organic developing countries.
Producers receive Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits B shares Preference B shares issued on a minimum price that covers the cost of national organic certifying bodies.
12 July 2004 as part of the Return of Capital production and an extra premium that scheme in 2004 05. is invested in the local community.
Pipeline Sites which the Group has www.
uk an interest in developing in the future.
basics Sainsburys entry level sub-brand range of products.
Fair value The amount for which an asset ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, BGTY Be Good to Yourself between knowledgeable, willing parties in RPI Retail Price Index.
Sainsburys healthier alternative sub-brand an arms length transaction.
Products are either: Sainsburys SO organic Sainsburys those with less than three per cent fat or freefrom Sainsburys range of products organic sub-brand range of products.
those with fewer calories, salt and saturated guaranteed to be wheat, gluten or dairy free.
SORIE Statement of recognised income FSA Food Standards Agency.
CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed www.
TSR Total Shareholder Return The FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing growth in value of a shareholding over a Company J Sainsbury plc.
company, runs the FTSE4Good index series specified period, assuming that dividends to measure the performance of companies are reinvested to purchase additional units CC Competition Commission An that meet CR standards, and to facilitate of the stock.
independent public body which conducts investment in those companies.
in-depth inquiries into mergers, markets and www.
com ftse4good Ttd Taste the difference Sainsburys the major regulated industries.
The CC has premium sub-brand range of products.
undertaken an investigation into the supply GDAs Guideline Daily Amounts.
of groceries by retailers in the UK.
Try something new today The marketing www.
uk Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
campaign in support of Making Sainsburys Great Again.
CR Corporate responsibility The need Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
to act responsibly in managing the impact TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
on a range of stakeholders: customers, IFRIC International Financial Reporting colleagues, investors, suppliers, the Interpretations Committee.
TU home Sainsburys sub-brand community and the environment.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Different by design Sainsburys general Standard s. Underlying basic earnings per share merchandise brand which mirrors the Profit after tax from continuing operations premium Taste the difference food range.
IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution.
attributable to equity holders before any www.
com gain or loss on the sale of properties, Different values Campaign launched investment property fair value movements, in 2007 to emphasise the higher quality Income statement Formerly known as the impairment of goodwill, financing fair value specifications and great value of Sainsburys profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
movements and one-off items that are own brand products.
material and infrequent in nature, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary ISA Individual Savings Account.
Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax shares in issue during the year, excluding from continuing operations attributable to those held by the ESOP trusts, which are JV Joint venture A business jointly equity shareholders divided by total value treated as cancelled.
owned by two or more parties.
of dividends declared during the year.
Underlying profit before tax Profit Like-for-like sales The measure of year DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan before tax from continuing operations on year same store sales growth.
Allows shareholders to reinvest their cash before any gain or loss on the sale of dividend in shares of the Company through properties, investment property fair value LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
a specially arranged share dealing service.
movements, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements and Mtdd Make the difference days EBITDAR Earnings before income tax, one-off items that are material and Launched in April 2007 to raise awareness depreciation, amortisation and rent.
and action around different social, environmental and ethical issues and EPS Earnings per share Earnings Underlying operating profit loss working partnership with customers to make attributable to ordinary shareholders Underlying profit before tax from continuing a sustained difference.
divided by the weighted average number operations before underlying net finance of ordinary shares in issue during the year, costs and underlying share of post-tax profit excluding those held by ESOP trusts, which or loss from joint ventures.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 97 Notes 98 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 99 Did you spot the gorilla?
The average supermarket stocks approximately 30,000 products but customers tend to buy from the same 150 items each week.
They dont seem to notice whats going on around them in store.
Sainsburys tested this idea in 2005 by reworking research originally carried out in America.
We dressed someone in a gorilla suit and sent them into a store to see if customers noticed it.
When we asked them if they had noticed anything unusual while doing their shopping most said they had not.
The concept of sleep-shopping was born.
We launched our Try Something New strapline and campaign to inspire customers to think beyond their normal range of products.
Innovation has been a constant theme throughout our 140 year history but the campaign provides simple ways to make small but signifi cant changes to the food we buy and eat.
The campaign has been incredibly well received by colleagues and customers.
Simple ideas are available on tip cards available in our stores.
Customers now collect around 75 million tip cards a year, double the number collected in the previous year.
The experiment asked volunteers to count the number of times a group of people in a video threw a basketball to each other, and then asked what else the volunteers had seen.
A large number had not noticed a woman in a gorilla suit walking through the scene.
100 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Annual Review Business review 1 Chairmans statement 2 Corporate objectives 3 Key financial performance indicators 4 Key progress and achievements 5 Operating review 6 Corporate responsibility review 12 Financial review 16 Principal risks and uncertainties 22 Board of Directors 24 Operating Board 26 Governance Directors report 27 Statement of corporate governance 29 Remuneration report 33 Statement of Directors responsibilities 41 Financial Statements & additional information Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc 42 Group income statement 43 Statements of recognised income and expense 44 Balance sheets 45 Cash ow statements 46 Notes to the financial statements 47 Five year financial record 93 Additional shareholder information 94 Financial calendar 96 Glossary 97 Also online... An illustrated review of Sainsburys during the 2008 09 financial year is also online at our corporate website or through the direct website address www.
co. uk illustratedreview This annual report is also available online at www.
By providing information online we are reducing the amount of paper printed and distributed and last year the majority of our shareholders chose to receive information online helping us to save 26 tonnes of paper.
If you would like to receive this document electronically in the future rather than in print please contact Computershare see page 94 for details.
The FSC Logo identi es products which contain wood from well managed forests This Report is printed on Revive Pure White Offset, a recycled certi ed in accordance with the rules of paper containing 100% post consumer collected waste.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. The paper is FSC accredited as a recycled grade.
The printer is certi ed to the environmental management system ISO14001 and is also Carbon Neutral.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 www.
co. uk J Sainsbury plc, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT
