Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They the Remuneration report and the financial statements in are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Company and the Group financial statements in accordance with The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by governing the preparation and dissemination of financial law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 24 to 25 confirm that, to the best of each persons In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are knowledge and belief: required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs select suitable accounting policies and then apply them as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, consistently: liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Company: and prudent: the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as fair review of the development and performance of the business adopted by the European Union: and and the position of the Company and Group, together with a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
By order of the Board The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable Tim Fallowfield them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Company Secretary report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the 12 May 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 41
