Notes to the financial statements at 26 July 2009 1 Authorisation of financial statements and Insurance provision statement of compliance with IFRSs A provision for public liability insurance is made for the estimated exposure of the Company to claims.
This has The financial statements of J D Wetherspoon plc the been based on experience of historical claims.
Company for the year ended 26 July 2009 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on Impairment of property, plant and equipment 11 September 2009, and the balance sheet was signed The Company determines whether property, plant and on the boards behalf by J Hutson and K Down.
equipment is impaired by estimating a units value in use J D Wetherspoon plc is a public limited company, and fair value less costs of sale, to determine the incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Fair value less costs of sale is determined using external and internal estimates of the value of the Companys The Companys financial statements have been prepared CGUs.
The value in use is calculated using the estimated in accordance with the EU-endorsed IFRSs and IFRIC earnings and cash flows derived by management Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as applied in estimates and applying a suitable discount rate to these accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act cash flows.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in note 2.
Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash flows, the discount rate applied or the estimate in fair value less costs of sale could give rise to an additional 2 Accounting policies impairment provision.
Basis of preparation Hedging The financial statements of the Company have been The Company applies assumptions on future transactions prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, which would have an impact on future borrowings critical IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 in the effectiveness calculations of its cash flow hedges.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The If these transactions were not to occur, it may result financial statements have been prepared under the in all or part of the cumulative gain or loss which was historical cost convention, as modified by  reported in equity being transferred to the sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities income statement.
including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Taxation Significant judgement is required to determine the The Companys financial statements are presented in provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest thousand transactions cannot be fully determined until a formal pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
The resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
accounting policies which follow set out those policies Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable that which apply in preparing the financial statements for the benefit will be obtained.
the year ended 26 July 2009: they have been consistently applied.
Segmental reporting The Company reports in one business segment that of Financial risk factors are disclosed on pages 9 and 10. public houses and one geographical segment being the United Kingdom.
Given the immaterial size of the Critical accounting estimates and judgements Companys hotel business, this has not been separately The preparation of financial statements in conformity disclosed as a business segment.
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its Exceptional items judgement in the process of applying the Companys The Company presents, on the face of the income accounting policies.
The estimates and judgements are statement, those material items of income and expense based on historical experience and other factors, which, because of the nature and expected infrequency including expectations of future events which are believed of the event giving rise to them, merit separate to be reasonable and constitute managements best presentation to allow shareholders to better understand judgement at the date of the financial statements.
the elements of financial performance in the year, so as In the future, actual experience could differ from those to facilitate comparison with previous periods and to estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of better assess trends in financial performance.
judgement or complexity or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are Property, plant and equipment disclosed below.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Interest is no longer capitalised on new pub developments, reflecting the fact that all cash invested in new pubs is now funded from organic cash flow.
