Notes to the financial statements at 26 July 2009 1 Authorisation of financial statements and Insurance provision statement of compliance with IFRSs A provision for public liability insurance is made for the estimated exposure of the Company to claims.
This has The financial statements of J D Wetherspoon plc the been based on experience of historical claims.
Company for the year ended 26 July 2009 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on Impairment of property, plant and equipment 11 September 2009, and the balance sheet was signed The Company determines whether property, plant and on the boards behalf by J Hutson and K Down.
equipment is impaired by estimating a units value in use J D Wetherspoon plc is a public limited company, and fair value less costs of sale, to determine the incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Fair value less costs of sale is determined using external and internal estimates of the value of the Companys The Companys financial statements have been prepared CGUs.
The value in use is calculated using the estimated in accordance with the EU-endorsed IFRSs and IFRIC earnings and cash flows derived by management Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as applied in estimates and applying a suitable discount rate to these accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act cash flows.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in note 2.
Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash flows, the discount rate applied or the estimate in fair value less costs of sale could give rise to an additional 2 Accounting policies impairment provision.
Basis of preparation Hedging The financial statements of the Company have been The Company applies assumptions on future transactions prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, which would have an impact on future borrowings critical IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 in the effectiveness calculations of its cash flow hedges.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The If these transactions were not to occur, it may result financial statements have been prepared under the in all or part of the cumulative gain or loss which was historical cost convention, as modified by  reported in equity being transferred to the sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities income statement.
including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Taxation Significant judgement is required to determine the The Companys financial statements are presented in provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest thousand transactions cannot be fully determined until a formal pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
The resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
accounting policies which follow set out those policies Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable that which apply in preparing the financial statements for the benefit will be obtained.
the year ended 26 July 2009: they have been consistently applied.
Segmental reporting The Company reports in one business segment that of Financial risk factors are disclosed on pages 9 and 10. public houses and one geographical segment being the United Kingdom.
Given the immaterial size of the Critical accounting estimates and judgements Companys hotel business, this has not been separately The preparation of financial statements in conformity disclosed as a business segment.
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its Exceptional items judgement in the process of applying the Companys The Company presents, on the face of the income accounting policies.
The estimates and judgements are statement, those material items of income and expense based on historical experience and other factors, which, because of the nature and expected infrequency including expectations of future events which are believed of the event giving rise to them, merit separate to be reasonable and constitute managements best presentation to allow shareholders to better understand judgement at the date of the financial statements.
the elements of financial performance in the year, so as In the future, actual experience could differ from those to facilitate comparison with previous periods and to estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of better assess trends in financial performance.
judgement or complexity or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are Property, plant and equipment disclosed below.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Interest is no longer capitalised on new pub developments, reflecting the fact that all cash invested in new pubs is now funded from organic cash flow.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 15 Notes to the financial statements Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, over the this is the case, the carrying amount of the CGU is estimated useful life of the asset as follows: increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount which would Freehold land is not depreciated.
have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the CGU in previous Freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income residual values over periods of 50 years.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the CGUs revised Short leasehold buildings are depreciated over the carrying amount less any residual value, on a systematic lease period.
basis, over its remaining useful life.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over Intangible assets 3 to 10 years.
Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Unopened properties are not depreciated until such time as economic benefits are derived.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful life, As required by IAS 16, property, plant and equipments as follows: expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Computer software is amortised over 3 to 10 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for reviewed for impairment, if events or changes in impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement.
Lease premiums Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and which are accounted for as operating leases represent equipment reflect the difference between net selling price prepaid lease payments.
These are amortised on a and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and are straight-line basis, over the lease term.
recognised in the income statement.
Assets held for sale Impairment Where the value of an asset will be recovered through a At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is there is an indication that a CGU may be impaired.
If classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are valued there is any such indication or when annual impairment at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs testing for a CGU is required, the Company makes an of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
estimate of the CGUs recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGUs fair value Inventories less costs to sell and its value in use: this is determined for Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net an individual CGU, unless the CGU does not generate realisable value.
The cost of finished goods includes cash inflows which are largely independent from those of appropriate overheads.
Cost is calculated on the basis of other CGUs or groups of CGUs.
Where the carrying first in, first out, with net realisable value being the amount of a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the estimated selling price, less any costs of disposal.
CGU is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the Provisions estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present value, using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a current market assessments of the time value of money past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources and the risks specific to the CGU.
Impairment losses of will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable continuing operations are recognised in the income estimate can be made of the obligations amount.
statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired CGU.
Where the effect is material, provisions are discounted to present value, using a pre-tax rate which reflects current An assessment is made at each reporting date about market assessments of the time value of money and the whether there is any indication that previously recognised risks specific to the liability.
The amortisation of the impairment losses may no longer exist or may have discount is recognised as a finance cost.
If there is any such indication, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment Revenue recognition loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the Revenue is the value of goods and services sold to third estimates used to determine the CGUs recoverable parties as part of the Companys trading activities, after amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
16 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Notes to the financial statements Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity, if it rewards of ownership are transferred.
Revenue represents relates to items which are credited or charged to equity.
amounts derived principally from the sale of goods drink Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the and food sales: recognised at the point at which the income statement.
goods are provided and the rendering of services machine income: net takings after agents commission Free cash flow recognised as earned or received.
The calculation of free cash flow is based on the net cash generated by business activities after funding interest, tax, Leases all other reinvestment in current pubs at the start of the Leases where the Company assumes substantially all of period and the purchase of own shares under an the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as employee share-based plan.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present Financial instruments value of future lease payments.
The corresponding liability Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease on which the Company becomes party to the payable.
Lease payments are apportioned between contractual provisions of the instrument giving rise to finance charges and reduction of the lease payable, so as the asset or liability.
to obtain a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged as an Financial assets expense to the income statement.
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks and receivables.
The classification depends on the and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit, on a straighta Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss line basis, over the period of the lease.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is Lease incentives classified in this category if acquired principally for the Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental purpose of selling in the short term.
expense over the lease term.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of Borrowing costs the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the category are presented in the income statement within period in which they are incurred.
fair value gain loss on financial derivatives in the period in which they arise.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured as the b Loans and receivables amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which are with fixed or determinable payments which are not enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary the balance sheet date.
These are classified as nondifferences arising between the tax bases of assets and current assets.
Loans and receivables are classified as liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial other receivables on the balance sheet.
statements, with the following exceptions: Other receivables Where the temporary difference arises from an asset or Other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with liability in a transaction which, at the time of the fixed or determinable payments which are not quoted in transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit an active manner.
or loss Other receivables are recognised and carried at original Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the invoice amount, less an allowance for any uncollectible extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when available against which the deductible temporary collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses can debts are written off, when identified.
be utilised Cash and cash equivalents Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet an undiscounted basis at the tax rates which are expected comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is deposits with an original maturity of three months or settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or under.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 17 Notes to the financial statements deposits as defined above.
Bank overdrafts are shown For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or within current financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Financial liabilities income statement within fair value gain loss on financial The Company classifies its financial liabilities in the derivatives.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and the income statement when the hedged transaction other financial liabilities.
The classification depends on the affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are non-financial asset or liability.
financial liabilities held for trading.
A financial liability is classified in this category, if acquired principally for the If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial liabilities amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to with a designated hedge may also be categorised as the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities roll-over or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to b Other financial liabilities the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-financial asset or liability as above.
If the related initial recognition and subsequently measured at transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
Trade and other payables Fair value hedges Trade and other payables are initially recognised at cost For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged and subsequently at amortised cost using the item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the effective-interest method.
risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value, and gains and losses from both are taken to the Bank loans and loan notes income statement within fair value gain loss on financial Interest-bearing bank loans and loan notes are initially derivatives.
When an unrecognised firm commitment is recorded at fair value of consideration received net of designated as a hedged item, this gives rise to an asset or direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently recorded liability in the balance sheet, representing the cumulative at amortised cost, with any difference between the change in the fair value of the firm commitment amount initially recorded and the redemption value attributable to the hedged risk.
recognised in the income statement over the period of the bank loans, using the effective-interest method.
The Company discontinues fair value hedge accounting, if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional right accounting or the Company revokes the designation.
to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge Derivative financial instruments and accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any of these hedging activities derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Derivative financial instruments used by the Company income statement within fair value gain loss on are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at financial derivatives.
Share capital Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception of Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs the hedge, there is formal designation and directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options documentation of the hedging relationship and it meets are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the Companys risk-management objective strategy for the proceeds.
undertaking the hedge and is expected to be highly effective.
The Company designates certain derivatives as Foreign currencies one of the following: Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date Cash flow hedges of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are Hedges are classified as cash flow hedges where they translated at the year-end exchange rates, with the hedge exposure to variability in cash flows which is resulting exchange differences taken to the income attributable to either a particular risk associated with a statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
recognised asset or liability or to a forecast transaction.
18 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Notes to the financial statements Retirement benefits as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards Contributions to personal pension schemes are granted after 7 November 2002 which had not vested recognised in the income statement in the period in before 1 January 2005. which they fall due.
Dividends Standards, amendments and interpretations effective Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at in the current year, but not relevant to the Company: each period end, are not recognised in the financial statements until they are paid in the case of the interim IFRIC 12 Service Concession arrangements dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes Changes in net debt IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Limit on defined benefit asset, Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
movements of the year, including movements in derivative financial instruments, of finance leases, borrowings and Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents.
Recognition and measurement: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures, on the reclassification of Share-based charges financial assets.
The Company has an employee share incentive plan which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is also a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to Standards and interpretations which are not yet directors and senior managers, subject to specific effective and have not been early adopted by performance criteria.
the Company: The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements measured by reference to the fair value at the date at This standard requires the Company to choose whether to which they are granted and is recognised as an expense rename the primary statements and whether to present over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the new statement of comprehensive income as a single the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
statement, replacing the income statement, or as In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken two statements.
of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company.
IAS 23 amendment Borrowing costs This standard requires an entity to capitalise borrowing No expense is recognised for awards which do not costs directly attributable to the production or acquisition ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is of a qualifying asset.
conditional on a market condition, which are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition IFRS 8 Operating segments is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions This standard is not relevant to the Company, as it are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the operates only in a single segment that of public houses cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to and single geography United Kingdom.
which the vesting period has expired, being managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of nonmarket conditions and of the number of equity instruments Standards, interpretations and amendments which which will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument, are not yet effective and not relevant to the subject to a market condition, being treated as vesting as Companys operations: described previously.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the IFRS 2 amendment Share-based payments income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
IFRS 3 revised Business combinations Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, with any cost IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate not yet recognised in the income statement for the award financial statements being treated as an expense immediately.
Any compensation paid, up to the fair value of the award at IAS 32 amendment Financial instruments, presentation the cancellation or settlement date, is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate expense in the income statement.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a The Company has taken advantage of the transitional foreign operation provision of IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards so ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 19
