Notice of annual general meeting This information is important and requires existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such your immediate attention exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of other appropriate independent professional adviser any regulatory body or stock exchange: authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your for a period expiring unless previously revoked, varied or shares in J D Wetherspoon plc, please forward this renewed on the date which is 15 months from the date document and the accompanying documents to the of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, the next annual general meeting of the company, but the for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities in pursuance of such Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
of J D Wetherspoon plc the Company will be held at The Crosse Keys, 9 Gracechurch Street, London, 9 THAT: EC3V 0DR on Wednesday 4 November 2009 at 10am A the articles of association of the company be for the following purposes: amended by deleting all the provisions of the companys memorandum of association which, by virtue of section Ordinary business 28 of the Act, are to be treated as part of the companys To resolve as ordinary resolutions: articles of association: 1 To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and B the articles of association produced to the meeting the auditors and the audited accounts of the company and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the for the year ended 26 July 2009. purpose of identification be adopted as the articles of association of the company in substitution for, and to the 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration exclusion of, the existing articles of association.
report for the year ended 26 July 2009.
10 THAT: 3 To re-elect John Hutson as a director.
subject to the passing of resolution 8 above and in place of all existing powers, the directors be generally 4 To re-elect Elizabeth McMeikan as a director.
empowered pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 5 To re-elect John Herring as a director.
560 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 as if section 561 1 of the Act 6 To elect Sir Richard Beckett as a director.
did not apply to such allotment, provided that this power shall expire on the date which is 15 months from the date 7 To re-appoint  LLP as the of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of auditors of the company and to authorise the directors the next annual general meeting of the company.
This to fix their remuneration.
power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: Special business i in connection with an offer of equity securities To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following including, without limitation, under a rights issue, open resolutions, in the case of the resolution numbered 8 as offer or similar arrangement save that in the case of an an ordinary resolution and, in the case of the resolutions allotment pursuant to the authority conferred by numbered 9, 10, 11 and 12, as special resolutions.
paragraph B of Resolution 8, such offer shall be by way of rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares 8 THAT: in the capital of the company in proportion as nearly as in place of all existing authorities, the directors be may be practicable to their existing holdings of ordinary generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to shares but subject to such exclusions or other section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to arrangements as the directors deem necessary or exercise all the powers of the company: expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of A to allot shares in the company and to grant rights to any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the or stock exchange: company Relevant Securities, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 917,228: and further ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up to an aggregate nominal amount of 138,974, but the B to allot Relevant Securities comprising equity securities company may make an offer or agreement which would within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to or might require equity securities to be allotted after this an aggregate nominal amount of 917,228 in connection power expires and the directors may allot equity securities with an offer by way of a rights issue in favour of holders in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this power of ordinary shares in the capital of the company in had not expired.
proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 65 Notice of annual general meeting This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is Notes: an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 2 b of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred general meeting is entitled to appoint one or more by resolution 8 were omitted.
proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the 11 THAT: rights attached to a different share or shares held by that the company be and is hereby authorised, pursuant to member.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases as defined by section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares in 2 A form of proxy is enclosed which members are invited the capital of the company, on such terms and in such to complete and return in the envelope provided.
manner as the directors of the company shall determine, Completion and return of the form of proxy, in subject to the following conditions: accordance with the instructions on it, will not prevent such members from attending and voting at the annual i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be general meeting in person, should they so wish.
purchased is 20,832,203: 3 To be valid for the annual general meeting, the form of ii the price at which ordinary shares may be purchased proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if shall not exceed 105% of the average of the middleany under which it is executed or a notarised copy of market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived such authority must be deposited at the offices of the from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, business days preceding the date of purchase and shall PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, not be less than the nominal value, from time to time, of BS99 7NH or at the following electronic address: an ordinary share, in both cases exclusive of expenses: www.
com, not later than 10am on 2 November 2009, being 48 hours before the time iii this authority unless previously revoked, varied or appointed for holding the annual general meeting.
renewed will expire at the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution and the conclusion of 4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person the next annual general meeting of the company, except nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy that the company may, before such authority expires, information rights a Nominated Person may, under an enter into a contract of purchase under which such agreement between him or her and the member by purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be after the expiry of the authority.
appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person 12 THAT: has no such proxy appointment right or has such a right general meetings other than any annual general but does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any meeting of the company may be called on not less than such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the 14 clear days notice.
member as to the exercise of voting rights.
By order of the board 5 The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1, 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights Keith Down described in those notes can be exercised only by Company Secretary members of the company.
11 September 2009 6 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or Registered Office: more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they Wetherspoon House do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Central Park Reeds Crescent 7 Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the Watford threshold requirements set out in that section have the WD24 4QL right to require the company to publish on a Web site a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The company may not require the members requesting any such Web site publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the company is required to place a statement 66 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Notice of annual general meeting on a Web site under section 527 of the Act it must forward the statement to the companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the Web site.
The business which may be dealt with at the annual general meeting includes any statement which the company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a Web site.
8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found on the companys Web site at www.
co. uk 9 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the progress of the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a Web site in the form of an answer to a question or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
10 There are available for inspection at Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and there will be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting from at least 15 minutes beforehand and until the conclusion of the annual general meeting: a copies of the executive directors service agreements with the company: b copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment with the company: c copies of the proposed new Articles of Association of the company and comparison documents showing all proposed changes.
11 Only those members registered in the register of members of the company as at 10am on 2 November 2009 or in the case of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
12 You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of annual general meeting for communicating with the company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 67 Designed by WLG Design Limited Printed by The Print Factory Limited English language advice by www.
co. uk J D Wetherspoon plc Wetherspoon House, Central Park Reeds Crescent, Watford, WD24 4QL 01923 477777 www.
