Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 87 Group accounts 5. d Impairment test for property, plant and equipment and goodwill A review was undertaken at the balance sheet date of the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment to determine whether there was any indication of triggers that may have led to these assets suffering an impairment loss.
Following this review an impairment trigger was noted in relation to Yuzhgazenergie YGE in Russia.
Following the 2007 acquisition of YGE in Russia, a technical and environmental re-evaluation of YGEs Koshekhablskoye gas field re-development was undertaken by the Group.
The re-evaluation resulted in a revised development plan and production profile.
The development plan and production profile have continued to be refined since that time, on the basis of: 3D seismic acquisition and interpretation: testing of well 27: and engineering design and procurement.
The anticipated cost of the development plan has increased by approximately 60% from that forecast at the time of the acquisition and first gas sales from the project are now expected around the 2010 year end, two years later than originally planned.
The Group considered this delay, along with anticipated delay in convergence of Adygean gas prices to net-back European levels and further increases in forecast capital expenditure, to represent an indication of impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
An impairment test was therefore undertaken.
The test compared the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit CGU, being YGE for the purpose of the review, to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The estimate of recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs to sell, derived by estimating discounted after tax cash flows for the CGU based on estimates that a typical market participant would use in valuing such assets.
In accordance with IAS 36, the impairment review has been undertaken in Russian Roubles, the currency in which the CGUs future cash flows will be generated.
The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were: Production profiles: these were based on the latest available 2P reserves 44.8 MMboe and contingent resources 119.3 MMboe information provided by independent reserve engineers.
Economic life of field: it is assumed YGE will be successful in extending the licence term beyond its current 2026 expiration to the economic life of the field expected to be around 2046.
Gas prices: these were based on the Russian governments intention to achieve net-back convergence with the European gas markets, which the Group has assumed as occurring in 2015, which is consistent with views expressed by market commentators.
The gas price is assumed to increase in line with inflation after 2015.
Capital and operating costs: these were based on project estimates provided by third parties.
Post tax Rouble discount rate of 15.9%: this was based on a Capital Asset Pricing Model analysis, and consistent with that used in the 2008 impairment review.
Accordingly the impairment test is dependent upon judgment used in determining such assumptions.
Having undertaken the review it was concluded Koshekhablskoye gas field re-development was not impaired.
This position will continue to be monitored as the project progresses.
Goodwill Goodwill was recognised in 2007 in relation to the Groups acquisition of Yuzhgazenergie LLC YGE amounting to $2.1m at 31st December 2009 2008: $2.2m.
The goodwill arose after the application of IAS12 Income Taxes, and is attributable principally to expanded growth opportunities in Russia.
In accordance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets, and following the Groups decision that an indication of potential impairment arose in relation to the property, plant and equipment for reasons more fully disclosed above a review for impairment of the related goodwill was undertaken.
The carrying amount of the goodwill was allocated to the YGE Cash Generating Unit CGU as described above.
The test compared the recoverable amount of the CGU, being YGE for the purpose of the review, to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The calculations use the same assumptions as used for property, plant and equipment as more fully described above.
$000 Goodwill on acquisition 2,716 Foreign exchange equity adjustment 551 At 31st December 2008 2,165 Foreign exchange equity adjustment 64 At 31st December 2009 2,101
