Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 107 Company accounts Notes to the Company accounts A.
Presentation of the financial statements reinstated at a value not higher than the carrying value had the impairment not been made.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under Share based payments the historical cost convention and in accordance The Group issues equity-settled share based payments with applicable UK accounting standards and the UK to the Directors and senior management.
The Directors have reviewed the settled share based payments are measured at fair Companys existing accounting policies and consider value at the date of grant.
The fair value in the Group that they are consistent with the requirements of is determined at the grant date of the equity-settled Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting share based payments and is expensed on a straightPolicies.
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups The Company has not adopted the provisions of FRS 29 estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
At each Financial Instrument Disclosures: as it has applied the subsequent balance sheet date the Company calculates exemption provided in paragraph 2D of the standard.
the estimated cumulative charge for each award having regard to any change in the number of options that are The Companys accounting policies are otherwise expected to vest and the expired portion of the vesting consistent with last year.
The movement in cumulative expense since the These financial statements have been prepared on a previous balance sheet relating to awards for services going concern basis following a review by the Directors to subsidiaries is expensed in the income statement of forecast cash flows for the next 12 months from the of those subsidiaries.
Once an option vests, no further date of approval of the financial statements, including adjustment is made to the aggregate amount expensed.
consideration of the ability of the Company to change The corresponding entry is shown in equity in the the timing and scale of capital expenditure, if required.
The fair value which is calculated using the binomial model takes into account two performance Foreign currencies criteria, being the actual increase in the Companys Transactions in foreign currencies are initially share price and a comparison of the actual increase in recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the time of the share price to the change in FTSE FI until the end of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the June 2004, the FTSE SI until the end of February 2006 translation of monetary items are taken to the profit and the higher of the FTSE 250I and the FTSE Oil & Gas and loss account.
Non-monetary items are measured Producers Index subsequent to that.
The expected life in terms of historical cost in foreign currency and are of the options depends on the behaviour of the option translated using the exchange rates of the original holders, which is incorporated into the option model transaction.
The presentation and functional currency of the Dividends Company is the US Dollar.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are Investments in subsidiaries recognised when they are approved by shareholders.
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs, and stated at cost less impairment Treasury shares losses.
The Company assesses investments The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the for impairment whenever events or changes in Company and held as treasury shares is recognised as a circumstances indicate that the carrying value of reduction in shareholders funds through the profit and an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognised in indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an the profit and loss account.
estimate of its recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable Related parties amount, the investment is considered impaired and is The Company is exempt under the terms of Financial written down to its recoverable amount.
Reporting Standard 8, Related Party Transactions, from disclosing related party transactions with entities that Impairment reversal are part of the JKX Group.
Where impairments have been recognised in previous periods and the condition giving rise to the impairment Cash flow statement is determined to have reversed, the carrying value of the The Company accounts are included within the publicly assets is assessed by reference to recoverable amount available consolidated financial statements of the Group.
where the recoverable amount is calculated as the lower Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under On reversal of an impairment, carrying value is the terms of the Financial Reporting Standard 1 revised 1996.
