74 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the accounts Comparative information has been re-presented so 1.
Authorisation of financial statements, statement that it also is in conformity with the revised standard.
of compliance with IFRS and basis of preparation As the change in accounting policy only impacts JKX Oil & Gas plc the ultimate parent of the group presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings hereafter, the Company is a public limited company per share.
listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated in England.
The registered office is 6 Cavendish Square, IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment London, W1G 0PD and the principal place of business is effective 1st January 2009 deals with vesting disclosed in the introduction to the annual report.
It clarifies that vesting principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries, conditions are service conditions and performance the Group, are the exploration for, appraisal and conditions only.
Other features of a share-based development of oil and gas reserves.
The registered payment are not vesting conditions.
These features number of the Company is 03050645. would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing The Groups financial statements for the year ended similar services: they would not impact the number 31st December 2009 were authorised for issue by the of awards expected to vest or valuation there of board of directors on 12th April 2010 and the balance subsequent to grant date.
All cancellations, whether sheets were signed on the boards behalf by Lord Fraser by the entity or by other parties, should receive the and Mr B J Burrows.
The Group has adopted The Groups financial statements have been prepared IFRS 2 amendment from 1st January 2009.
The under the historical cost convention and in accordance amendment does not have a material impact on the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Groups financial statements.
as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying and the Companies Act 2006 applicable for Companies assets for which the commencement date for reporting under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies capitalisation is on or after 1st January 2009, the adopted by the Group are set out below.
Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable These financial statements have been prepared on a to the acquisition, construction or production of a going concern basis following a review by the Directors qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
The of forecast cash flows for the next 12 months from the Group previously recognised all borrowing costs as an date of approval of the Group financial statements, expense immediately.
This change in accounting policy including consideration of the ability of the Group to was due to the adoption of IAS 23, Borrowing costs change the timing and scale of capital expenditure, 2007 in accordance with the transition provisions of the if required.
standard: comparative figures have not been restated.
The amendment does not have an impact on the Groups 2.
Adoption of new and revised International financial statements since it does not have borrowings.
Financial Reporting Standards The following standards, amendments and a The Group has adopted the following new and interpretations do not have a material impact on the amended IFRSs as of 1st January 2009: Groups earnings or to shareholders funds.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 : IFRS Amendment to IFRS7, Financial Instruments: 8 requires an entity to adopt the management Disclosure approach to reporting on the financial statements of its operating segments.
Generally, the information Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: to be reported would be what management uses Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of financial internally for evaluating segment performance and statements Puttable financial instruments and deciding how to allocate resources to operating obligations arising on liquidation segments.
Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of IAS 1 revised.
Presentation of financial statements financial assets effective 1st January 2009.
The revised standard Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 on embedded prohibits the presentation of items of income and derivatives expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring nonIFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes owner changes in equity to be presented separately IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estate from owner changes in equity in a statement of comprehensive income.
As a result the Group IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign presents in the consolidated statement of changes operation in equity all owner changes in equity, whereas all b The following standards and amendments to existing non-owner changes in equity are presented in the standards have been published and are mandatory for consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
