98 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PPC has at times since 1994 sought clarification of their status regarding a number of production related taxes, and has been subject to a number of such taxes, at various rates, which have been paid and accounted for within Operating Costs within the Group Income Statement.
In late 2009, coinciding with the lead up to the recent Presidential election in Ukraine, PPC was subjected to increased operational pressures in several areas, including broader taxation.
Specifically, application of production related tax pre 2009 has attracted scrutiny.
On 1st January 2010 yet another law came into force in Ukraine in the area of production related tax, the Law of Ukraine on On Rent Charges for Oil, Natural Gas and Gas Condensate which had been suspended since 2004.
There are currently conflicting laws most particularly the Law of Ukraine on Amending Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine which may be a basis for the Ukrainian Tax Authorities to assert that further production related taxes are due from various oil and gas companies, including PPC.
PPC will continue to seek clarification from advisors and the tax authorities concerning rules of calculation and payment of various production related taxes.
The statutory period of limitation in Ukraine for such matters is three years.
If PPC was subject to maximum production related taxes over the three year period to 31st December 2009, increased taxes could have been up to an amount equivalent to twenty percent of gross revenues net of corporate tax savings.
In particular, the Group considers that the likelihood of additional production related taxes for the period from May 2007 to December 2008 is remote on the basis of tax audits completed, and the related legal position.
The Group also believes the possibility of any penalties or interest for any period, to be remote.
Going forward from 1st January 2010, if the most punitive current variants of production related taxes were to apply to PPC it could represent an overall cost to PPC, equal to approximately thirty percent of gross revenue net of corporate tax savings.
The Group would exhaustively challenge the payment of any further production related taxes over and above those it already pays.
Given the lack of clarity over the legal position, in conjunction with the arguments the Group has to defend its position, the Group considers that no payments are likely to be made in the next 12 months.
Further, the Group has flexibility in relation to capital and other expenditure to mitigate impact of any future additional production related payments on the Groups financial position.
The Group will review the provision at the half year, and continues to believe no form of material additional production related taxes is currently applicable to PPC.
Deferred taxation A deferred tax liability of $18.4m 2008:$19.3m arises in respect of the activities of Poltava Petroleum Company, based in Ukraine, $9.6m 2008: $9.8m relating to the acquisition of Yuzhgazenergie LLC in Russia and $1.4m relating to Hungary.
There is no expiry date on the remaining losses.
The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unprovided items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise these deductible temporary differences and tax losses.
