Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 113 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE is given that the Annual General Meeting of that the Company may before such expiry JKX Oil & Gas plc the Company will be held at the make an offer or agreement which would or offices of Cardew Group, 12 Suffolk Street, London might require relevant securities to be SW1Y 4HG on 27th May 2010 at 11.00am for the allotted after such expiry and the directors following purposes: may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority As ordinary business conferred hereby had not expired, To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following and further, resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
ii the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all 1.
To receive the accounts of the Company, the powers of the Company to allot equity Directors Report, and the Auditors Report securities within the meaning of Section 560 thereon for the year ended 31st December 2009. of the Companies Act 2006 the Act in 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report connection with a rights issue or other for the year ended 31st December 2009. offering in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively 3.
To reelect Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC attributable to the interests of all ordinary who has served on the Board for more than nine shareholders are proportionate as nearly as years and whose biographical details are may be to the respective numbers of ordinary included at page 42 of the 2009 Annual Report shares held by them up to an aggregate and Accounts, as a director of the Company.
nominal amount of 5,733,765 provided that 4.
To reelect Viscount Asquith who has served on this authority shall expire unless previously the Board for more than nine years and whose renewed, varied or revoked by the Company biographical details are included at page 43 of in general meeting five years from the date the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts, as a of this resolution save that the Company may director of the Company.
before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require 5.
To reelect Dr Paul Davies who retires by rotation relevant securities to be allotted after such and whose biographical details are included at expiry and the directors may allot relevant page 42 of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts, securities in pursuance of such an offer or as a director of the Company.
agreement as if the authority conferred 6.
To reelect Bruce Burrows who retires by hereby had not expired.
rotation and whose biographical details are For the purposes of this resolution, Relevant included at page 42 of the 2009 Annual Report Securities means: and Accounts, as a director of the Company.
a shares in the Company other than shares 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as allotted pursuant to: auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at i an employee share scheme as defined by which accounts of the Company are laid before section 1166 of the 2006 Act : the members and to authorise the directors to ii a right to subscribe for shares in the determine their remuneration.
Company where the grant of the right itself 8.
To declare the dividend recommended by the constituted a Relevant Security: or directors of the Company.
iii a right to convert securities into shares in the 9.
That in substitution for all existing authorities Company where the grant of the right itself but without prejudice to the exercise of any such constituted a Relevant Security: and authority prior to the date hereof and subject to b any right to subscribe for or to convert any passing resolution ten below: security into shares in the Company other i the directors be and they are hereby generally than rights to subscribe for or convert any and unconditionally authorised to exercise all security into shares allotted pursuant to an powers of the Company to allot Relevant employee share scheme as defined by Securities as defined below up to an section 1166 of the 2006 Act.
References to aggregate nominal amount of 5,733,765 the allotment of Relevant Securities in the provided that this authority shall expire resolution include the grant of such rights.
unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting five years from the date of this resolution save 114 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 10.
That subsidiaries who are located outside the United Kingdom, with such modifications as a the rules of the JKX Oil & Gas plc 2010 may be necessary or desirable in order to Performance Share Plan PSP, in the form take account of local tax, exchange control or produced at this annual general meeting securities laws as they consider appropriate AGM and initialled by the Chairman of the subject, however, to the conditions that: AGM for the purposes of identification, be and are hereby approved: i any ordinary shares made available under such other schemes shall be treated as b the directors of the Company be and are counting against any individual or overall hereby authorised to do all acts and things limits contained in the DSOS: and which they may consider necessary or expedient for the purposes of implementing ii the benefits conferred by and limitations and giving effect to the PSP: and contained in such other schemes shall ensure, so far as the directors consider c the directors of the Company be and are practicable, that the participants obtain hereby authorised to add such number of substantially no greater benefit before tax appendices to the PSP for the benefit of than employees may obtain from participating employees of the Company and or its in the DSOS.
subsidiaries who are located outside the United Kingdom, with such modifications as As special business may be necessary or desirable in order to To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following take account of local tax, exchange control or resolutions, which will be proposed as special securities laws as they consider appropriate resolutions.
subject, however, to the conditions that: 12.
That in substitution for any existing authority i any ordinary shares made available under pursuant to Section 701 of the Act, the Company such other schemes shall be treated as be and is hereby generally authorised to make counting against any individual or overall market purchases within the meaning of Section limits contained in the PSP: and 693 of the Act pursuant to and in accordance ii the benefits conferred by and limitations with Section 701 of the Act of fully paid ordinary contained in such other schemes shall shares in the capital of the Company upon and ensure, so far as the directors consider subject to the following conditions but otherwise practicable, that the participants obtain unconditionally: substantially no greater benefit before tax a the maximum number of ordinary shares than employees may obtain from participating hereby authorised to be purchased is in the PSP.
That b the maximum price which may be paid for a the rules of the JKX Oil & Gas plc 2010 each such ordinary share shall be an amount Discretionary Share Option Scheme DSOS, equal to 105% above the average of the in the form produced at the AGM and middle market quotations for an ordinary initialled by the Chairman of the AGM for the share as derived from the London Stock purposes of identification, be and are hereby Exchange Daily Official List for the five approved: business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is contracted to b the directors of the Company be and are be purchased exclusive of expenses and the hereby authorised to do all acts and things minimum price which may be paid for such which they may consider necessary or ordinary share shall be the nominal value of expedient for the purposes of implementing such ordinary share at the time of such and giving effect to the DSOS, including purchase exclusive of expenses : and making any changes to the rules of the DSOS necessary or desirable in order to obtain or c unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, maintain approval by HM Revenue and the authority conferred by this resolution Customs HMRC of Part A of the DSOS: shall expire on the earlier of the date 15 and months after the passing of this resolution and at the conclusion of the next annual c the directors of the Company be and are general meeting of the Company after the hereby authorised to add such number of date on which this resolution is passed, appendices to the DSOS for the benefit of provided that the Company may before such employees of the Company and or its expiry date enter into a contract to purchase Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 115 ordinary shares under this authority which 14.
That a general meeting other than an annual will or may be completed or executed wholly general meeting may be called on not less than or partly after the expiration of such authority 14 clear days notice.
and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
That subject to the passing of resolution nine above and in substitution for any existing power under Section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof the directors be and they B J Burrows are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 Secretary of the Act to allot equity securities within the Registered office: meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash 6 Cavendish Square, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution London W1G 0PD nine above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: i in connection with a rights issue or other offering in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, statutory restrictions or legal or practical problems under or resulting from the application of the laws of any territory or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up to an aggregate nominal value of 860,065: and shall expire unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting fifteen months from the date of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution nine above were omitted.
116 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes 9.
As at 2.00pm on 12th April 2010, the Companys issued share capital comprised 172,013,151 ordinary shares of 10p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general 1.
Only those members registered on the Companys register of meeting of the Company and, therefore, excluding 402,771 members at: ordinary shares held in Treasury, the total number of voting 11.00am on 25th May 2010: or, rights in the Company as at 2.00pm on 12th April 2010 is 171,610,380. if this meeting is adjourned, at 11.00am on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting, The website referred to in note 2 will include information on the number of shares and voting rights.
shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Under section 319A of the Act, the Company must answer any 2.
Information regarding the meeting, including the question you ask relating to the business being dealt with at information required by section 311A of the Act, is available the meeting unless: from www.
a answering the question would interfere unduly with the 3.
If you wish to attend the meeting in person, it will be held at the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of offices of Cardew Group, 12 Suffolk Street, London SW1Y 4HG confidential information: on 27th May 2010 at 11.00am.
Registration will open at b the answer has already been given on a website in the form 10.30am.
Please bring your admission card, enclosed with this of an answer to a question: or AGM notice, with you and on arrival hand it to one of the Companys officials.
c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
If you are a member of the Company at the time set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or 11.
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and of the Act to enjoy information rights Nominated Person : you should have received a proxy form with this notice of a You may have a right under an agreement between you and meeting.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set the member of the Company who has nominated you to have out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
information rights Relevant Member to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information b If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a rights, you do not have a right to appoint any proxies under the right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy under an agreement between you and the Relevant Member form.
Please read the section relating to Nominated Persons to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the below.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but c Your main point of contact in terms of your investment in the must attend the meeting to represent you.
Details of how to Company remains the Relevant Member or, perhaps, your appoint the Chairman of the meeting or another person as your custodian or broker and you should continue to contact proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy them and not the Company regarding any changes or form.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the queries relating to your personal details and your interest in meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the Company including any administrative matters.
The the Chairman and give your instructions directly to them.
only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from you.
The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy how to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Copies of the directors service contracts and the terms of engagement for Non-Executive directors, together with the To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with register of directors share interests, are available for the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it inspection at the registered office of the Company during is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of normal business hours on each business day until the authority must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, conclusion of the AGM and will also be available at the place of Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, the AGM from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the conclusion.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting at the meeting 13.
In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, if they wish.
the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to 8.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy, exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any you can appoint a proxy ies electronically by visiting members' statements, members' resolutions or members' www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and matters of business received by the Company after the date of Shareholder Reference Number as printed on your Form of this notice will be available on the Company's website Proxy.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with www.
Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this are given on both websites.
To be valid your proxy Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the appointment s and instructions should reach Equiniti no later Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any than 11.00am on 25th May 2010. purposes other than those expressly stated.
Advisors Glossary of terms Secretary 2P reserves Proved plus probable B J Burrows Mcf Thousand cubic feet Bcf Billion cubic feet Registered office 6 Cavendish Square cfpd Cubic feet per day London W1G 0PD MMcfd Million cubic feet per day Registered in England Mbbl Thousand barrels Number: 3050645 MMbbl Million barrels Auditors bcpd Barrel of condensate per day  LLP, bpd Barrel per day 1 Embankment Place bopd Barrel of oil per day London WC2N 6RH boe Barrel of oil equivalent Registrars Mboe Thousand barrels of oil equivalent Equiniti MMboe Million barrels of oil equivalent Aspect Hose boepd Barrel of oil equivalent per day Spencer Road Lancing sq.
km Square kilometre West Sussex BN99 6DA $ United States Dollars LIBOR London InterBank Offered Rate Principal bankers Standard Bank plc US United States Cannon Bridge House Hryvna The lawful currency of Ukraine 25 Dowgate Hill Roubles The lawful currency of Russia London EC4R 2SB Conversion factors 6,000 standard cubic feet Stockbrokers of gas 1 boe Brewin Dolphin Investment Banking, 48 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5TS Oriel Securities Limited 125 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN Financial advisors Hawkpoint Partners Limited 41 Lothbury London EC2R 7AE Solicitors We welcome visits to our website Denton Wilde Sapte LLP www.
co. uk One Fleet Place Designed and produced by db&co London EC4M 7WS www.
co. uk, in association with Robson Dowry and RPD Consulting.
Herbert Smith LLP Photography by Mike Abrahams Exchange House Satellite images Planetery Visions Ltd Primrose Street Printed in the UK by The Midas Press plc London EC2A 2HS The report is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk which is produced with This is an important document, if 50% recycled bre from both pre and post-consumer sources, you are in any doubt as to what together with 50% virgin bre from sustainable forests action to take you should consult an independently certi ed according to the rules of the Forest appropriate independent advisor Stewardship Council.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free such as an accountant or a lawyer.
ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
JKX Oil & Gas plc 6 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PD Telephone 44 0 20 7323 4464
