68 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors in office at the date of this report have Annual Report and the group financial statements in each confirmed that: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit Company law requires the directors to prepare financial information of which the companys auditors are statements for each financial year.
Under that law the unaware: and directors have prepared the group financial statements he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought in accordance with International Financial Reporting to have taken as a director to make himself or herself Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
aware of any relevant audit information and to Under company law the directors must not approve establish that the companys auditors are aware of that the financial statements unless they are satisfied that information.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that By order of the board period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: B J Burrows state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the Company Secretary European Union have been followed, subject to any 12th April 2010 material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
