Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 75 Group accounts the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after Jointly controlled entities JCEs are a joint venture that 1st January 2010 or later periods, but the Group has not involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership early adopted them.
or other entity in which each venturer has a long term interest.
JCEs are accounted for using the proportional IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements consolidation method.
The Group combines its share IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-byIFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners line basis with similar items in the Groups financial IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements.
statements Foreign currencies IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations The presentation currency of the Group is the US Dollar IAS 38 amendment, Intangible Assets based on the fact that the Groups primary transactions originate in, or are dictated by, the US Dollar, these IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale being amongst others oil sales and procurement of rigs and discontinued operations and drilling services.
IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled shareEach entity in the group is measured using the currency based payment transaction of the primary economic environment in which the entity IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial operates the functional currency.
Foreign currency statements transactions are translated into functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the Eligible Hedged Items an amendment to IAS 39 transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the The Group is evaluating the impact of the above settlement of such transactions and from translation pronouncements.
The above changes are not at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and expected to be material to the Groups earnings or to liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are shareholders funds.
recognised in the income statement.
On consolidation of subsidiaries and JCEs with a non 3.
Significant accounting policies US Dollar presentation currency, balance sheets are Basis of consolidation translated into USD at the closing rate and income The consolidated financial statements incorporate and expenses at the average monthly rate.
All the financial statements of the Company and entities resulting exchange differences arising in the period controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up are recognised in other comprehensive income, and to 31st December each year.
All intragroup balances, cumulatively in the Groups translation reserve.
Such transactions, income and expenses and profits or translation differences are reclassified to profit or loss losses, including unrealised profits arising from in the period in which any such foreign operation is intragroup transactions, have been eliminated on disposed of.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the The Parent Company and subsidiaries within the same way as unrealised profits except that they are Group hold monetary intercompany balances for which only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the impairment.
foreseeable future and thus this is considered to be part Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the of the Groups net investment in the relevant subsidiary.
power to govern the financial and operating policies in An exchange difference arises on translation in the order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control company income statement which on consolidation is presumed to exist where the Group owns more is recognised in equity, only being recognised in the than one half of the voting rights which does not income statement on the disposal of the net investment.
always equate to percentage ownership unless it can The major exchange rates used for the revaluation of be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute the closing balance sheet at 31st December 2009 was control.
Control does not exist where other parties 1 $1.6 2008: 1 $1.4, $1 UAH 8.0 2008: $1 UAH 7.8, hold veto rights over significant operating and financial $1 RUB 30.2 2008: $1 RUB 29.4. decisions.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on into account.
The consolidated financial statements acquisition are treated as assets liabilities of the foreign include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and entity and translated at closing rate.
cash flows of the Companies and their subsidiaries after eliminating intragroup transactions as noted above.
76 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The estimated useful lives of property plant and Property, plant and equipment equipment and their residual values are reviewed on an Property plant and equipment comprises the Groups annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives tangible oil and gas assets together with computer are accounted for prospectively.
equipment, motor vehicles and other equipment and are carried at cost, less any accumulated depreciation The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes of an asset is determined as the difference between purchase price and construction costs for qualifying the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets and borrowing costs capitalised in accordance asset and is recognised in the income statement for the with the Groups accounting policy.
Depreciation of these relevant period.
assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Business combinations and Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the Oil and gas assets purchase method.
Exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is Acquisition cost is measured as the fair value of the accounted for under the successful efforts method.
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities The successful efforts method means that only costs incurred or assumed at the date of exchange plus costs which relate directly to the discovery and development of directly attributable to the acquisition.
specific oil and gas reserves are capitalised.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised of the cost of the business combination over the Groups within intangible assets.
Development expenditure on share in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable producing assets is accounted for in accordance with assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining legal rights to explore are expensed After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost immediately to the income statement.
less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in All lease and licence acquisition costs, geological and a business combination is, from the acquisition date, geophysical costs and other direct costs of exploration, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units evaluation and development are capitalised as intangible that are expected to benefit from the synergies of or property plant and equipment according to their combination.
Intangible assets comprise costs relating to the exploration and evaluation of properties which the Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
Impairment directors consider to be unevaluated until reserves losses on goodwill are not reversed.
are appraised as commercial, at which time they are transferred to property plant and equipment following Impairment of intangible assets and property, an impairment review and depreciated accordingly.
plant and equipment Where properties are appraised to have no commercial At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the value, the associated costs are treated as an impairment carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment loss in the period in which the determination is made.
and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, to determine whether there is any indication that those assets Costs are depreciated on a field by field unit of have suffered an impairment loss.
Individual assets production method based on commercial proved plus are grouped together as a cash-generating unit for probable reserves, with the exception of compressors, impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level which are depreciated on a straight-line basis 10 years at which their identifiable cash flows, that are largely over their anticipated useful life.
independent of the cash flows of the other groups The calculation of the unit of production depreciation assets, can be determined.
In the case of exploration and takes account of estimated future development costs evaluation assets this will normally be at a field level.
and is based on current period end unescalated price If any such indication of impairment exists the Group levels.
Changes in reserves and cost estimates are makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount of Other assets an individual asset or a cash-generating unit exceeds Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost, less its recoverable amount, the asset cash-generating estimated residual value, over their estimated useful unit is considered impaired and is written down to its lives, using the straight-line method, for the following recoverable amount.
In assessing the value in use, classes of assets: the estimated future cash flows are adjusted for the Motor vehicles 4 years risks specific to the asset cash generating unit and Computer equipment 3 years are discounted to their present value that reflects the Other equipment 5 to 10 years current market indicators.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 77 Group accounts Excluding goodwill, where an impairment loss and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the in value.
asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the Treasury shares increased carrying amount does not exceed the JKX Oil & Gas plc treasury shares held by the Company carrying amount that would have been determined are classified in shareholders equity.
The consideration had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset paid, including any directly attributable incremental cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an costs is deducted from equity attributable to the impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently Financial instruments sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of The Group may use derivative financial instruments transaction costs, is included in equity attributable to the primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge Companys equity holders.
No gain or loss is recognised its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations in the financial statements on the purchase, sale, issue relating to certain firm commitments and forecasted or cancellation of treasury shares.
Any such derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date at which the contract is entered Trade payables into and subsequently re-measured at fair value on Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and subsequent reporting dates.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method if the time value of money A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation is significant.
under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
No financial instruments were designated as hedges Taxation during the period 2008: nil and no other hedging Income tax expense represents the sum of the current activity took place during the period 2008: nil.
tax payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the Inventories year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net in the income statement because it excludes items of realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, income or expense that are taxable or deductible in where applicable, direct labour costs plus attributable other years and it further excludes items that are never overheads based on a normal level of activity and taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax other costs associated in bringing the inventories to is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
using the weighted average method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred recoverable on differences between the carrying amount in marketing, selling and distribution.
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax base used in the computation Trade and other receivables of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value recognised for all taxable temporary differences and and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it reduced by any provision for impairment.
A provision is probable that taxable profits will be available against for impairment of trade receivables is established when which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the able to collect all amounts due.
Indicators of impairment temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the would include financial difficulties of the debtor, initial recognition other than in a business combination likelihood of the debtors insolvency, default in payment of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that or a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
Any affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
impairment is recognised in the income statement Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable within net operating costs.
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, and interests in joint ventures, except Cash and cash equivalents where the Group is able to control the reversal of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and temporary difference and it is probable that the current balances with banks and similar institutions, temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable which are readily convertible to known amounts of future.
Cash equivalents are short-term with an original maturity of less than 3 months, highly liquid investments The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent 78 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit actual increase in the share price to the change in FTSE will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be FI until the end of June 2004, the FTSE SI until the end recovered.
Any such reduction shall be reversed to the of February 2006 and the higher of the FTSE 250 Index extent that it becomes probable that sufficient taxable or the FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index subsequent to profit will be available.
The expected life of the options depends on the behaviour of the option holders, which is incorporated Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are into the option model consistent with historic data.
expected to apply in the period when the liability is The fair values calculated are inherently subjective settled or the asset realised based on tax rates and and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the laws substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
limitations of the model used.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or The proceeds received net of any directly attributable credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal is also dealt with in equity.
value of 10p per share and share premium when the options are exercised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there exists a legal and enforceable right to offset and The rules regarding the scheme are described in the they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 and 66 and authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax in note 20 on share based payments.
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Bonus scheme Non-current assets or disposal groups heldThe Group operates a bonus scheme for its Directors for-sale and employees.
The scheme has three performance Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified conditions: 1. financial objectives: 2. increase in share as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to price: and 3. key strategic objectives.
The bonus be recovered principally through a sale transaction and payments are made annually, normally in January of a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated each year and the costs are accrued in the period to at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less which they relate.
costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than Pension costs through continuing use.
The Group contributes to the individual pension scheme of the qualifying employees choice.
Contributions Segmental reporting are charged to the income statement as they become Operating segments are reported in a manner payable.
The Group has no further payment obligations consistent with the internal reporting provided to the once the contributions have been paid.
The Chief Operating Decision-Maker, who is responsible for allocating Provisions resources and assessing performance of the operating Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present segments, has been identified as the executive directors obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable of the Group that make the strategic decisions.
that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate Share options of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value to the directors and senior management.
Equity-settled where the effect is material.
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value of the employee services Decommissioning received in exchange for the grant of options is expensed Provision is made for the cost of decommissioning on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based assets at the time when the obligation to decommission on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually arises.
Such provision represents the estimated vest.
At each subsequent balance sheet date the Group discounted liability the discount rate used currently calculates the estimated cumulative charge for each being at 10%, 2008: 10% for costs which are expected award having regard to any change in the number of to be incurred in removing production facilities and site options that are expected to vest and the expired portion restoration at the end of the producing life of each field.
The change in this cumulative A corresponding item of property plant and equipment is charge since the last balance sheet is expensed.
Once also created at an amount equal to the provision.
This is an option vests, no further adjustment is made to the subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of aggregate amount expensed.
The fair value which is the production facilities.
Any change in the present value calculated using the binomial model takes into account of the estimated expenditure attributable to changes in two performance criteria, being the actual increase in the estimates of the cash flow or the current estimate of the Companys share price and a comparison of the the discount rate used are reflected as an adjustment to Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 79 Group accounts the provision and the property plant and equipment.
a Recoverability of tangible and intangible oil and The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a gas costs finance cost.
Costs capitalised as tangible and intangible assets are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest Revenue recognition that the carrying value may exceed its recoverable value.
Sales of oil and gas products are recognised when the This assessment involves judgement as to i the likely significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed commerciality of the asset, and ii future revenues and to the buyer and it can be reliably measured.
Other costs pertaining and the discount rate to be applied for services are recognised when the services have been the purposes of deriving a recoverable value.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the disclosure is included in note 5. consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
b Decommissioning The Group has decommissioning obligations in respect Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, of its producing interests.
The full extent to which the by reference to the net carrying amount at the effective provision is required depends on the legal requirements interest rate applicable.
at the time of decommissioning, the costs and timing of any decommissioning works and the discount rate Leasing applied to such costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the c Depreciation of oil and gas assets relevant lease.
Oil and gas assets held in property, plant and equipment are mainly depreciated on a unit of production basis at Dividends a rate calculated by reference to proved plus probable Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid reserves and incorporating the estimated future cost to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are of developing and extracting those reserves.
Future recognised when they are approved by shareholders.
development costs are estimated using assumptions as to the numbers of wells required to produce those Interests in joint venture agreements reserves, the cost of the wells, future production The Group is party to a number of joint venture facilities and operating costs: together with assumptions contractual arrangements with other parties venturers on oil and gas realisations.
which govern the operation of associated jointly controlled assets.
d Taxation A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby Tax provisions are recognised when it is considered the Group and other parties undertake an economic probable that there will be a future outflow of funds activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control to the tax authorities.
In this case, provision is made exists only when the strategic financial and operating for the amount that is expected to be settled.
This decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous requires judgements to be made on the outcome, consent of the venturers.
which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances.
A change in estimate of the likelihood Where a group company undertakes its activities under of a future outflow and or in the expected amount to joint venture arrangements, the Groups share of jointly be settled would result in a charge or credit to income and directly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred in the period in which the change occurs.
Deferred tax jointly with other ventures are recognised and classified assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered according to their nature.
Income from the sale or use probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This of the Groups share of the output of jointly controlled involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, are assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to included in the consolidated financial statements in whether or not there will be sufficient taxable profits proportion to the Groups interest.
available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse.
This requires assumptions regarding future profitability Critical accounting estimates and assumptions and is therefore inherently uncertain.
To the extent The Group makes estimates and assumptions assumptions regarding future profitability change, there concerning the future.
The resulting accounting can be an increase or decrease in the level of deferred estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related tax assets recognised that can result in a charge or actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have credit in the period in which the change occurs.
Tax a risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying provisions are based on enacted or substantively amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial enacted laws.
To the extent that these change there year are discussed below.
would be a charge or credit to income both in the period of charge, which would include any impact on cumulative provisions, and in future periods.
