BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Environmental Technologies Division Year to 31st March % 2009 2008 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 2,226 2,290 -3 -9 Sales excluding precious metals 1,135 1,140 -7 Operating profit 124.3 147.3 -16 -22 before amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Description of the Business Key Statistics Return on sales excluding precious metals 10.9% Environmental Technologies Division is a global supplier of Return on invested capital ROIC 10.5% catalysts and related technologies for applications which benefit Capital expenditure 160.2m the environment such as pollution control, cleaner fuel, more Capex depreciation 2.4 times Average invested capital 1,186m efficient use of hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
The Employees 4,623 division consists of three global businesses: Emission Control Technologies ECT Performance in 2008 09 ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel and stationary emissions control businesses.
We are Environmental Technologies Division experienced mixed market a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle exhaust conditions during the year.
The division achieved good growth in emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for the the first half with both ECT and Process Technologies performing reduction of emissions from industrial processes.
Demand for autocatalysts fell sharply in the second half of takes place in the UK, Germany, Belgium, Russia, USA, Mexico, the year while demand for our other catalyst products and Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India, China and South services remained strong.
For the year as a whole, revenue fell Korea.
R&D facilities are in the USA, UK, Germany, Sweden, by 3% to 2,226 million: sales excluding precious metals were Japan, South Korea and Brazil.
4.4 million down at 1,135 million: and underlying operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles fell by 16% to Process Technologies 124.3 million.
Translated at constant exchange rates, sales Process Technologies manufactures process catalysts for the excluding precious metals fell by 7% and underlying operating syngas, methanol, ammonia, hydrogen, gas coal to products, oil profit was 22% lower.
refineries and gas processing industries.
Davy Process Technology develops chemical process technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries.
Our Emission Control Technologies Tracerco business is an industrial leader in specialist technology Emission Control Technologies sales excluding precious metals for the diagnostics, measurement and analysis of process plant fell by 3% to 872 million.
Sales excluding precious metals grew conditions across the hydrocarbon chain.
Process Technologies by 10% in the first half of the year, followed by a drop of 16% is a global business with manufacturing sites in the UK, India and in the second half.
At constant exchange rates, sales excluding China, supported by several UK based technology centres and precious metals were 11% down for the year with 8% growth technical offices in key centres around the world.
in the first half followed by a 26% decline in the second half.
In Johnson Mattheys financial year to 31st March 2009 global Fuel Cells light duty vehicle sales fell by 12% to 60.3 million.
Production Johnson Matthey is a world leader in catalysts and catalysed declined by 13% with a small decrease in inventories.
All of the components for fuel cells.
reduction occurred in the second six months of the financial year when global car production fell by 26%.
Johnson Mattheys sales volumes of autocatalysts fell by more than 30% in the second half of the year, which was greater than the fall in global car production as a result of car companies and exhaust system suppliers reducing inventories of catalysts.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Vehicle Emissions Legislation Timeline Brazil S. Korea Euro III Euro IV HDD HDD Rest of India India Euro III HDD Euro IV HDD World Brazil S. Korea India Euro IV HDD K-ULEV Euro 3 national Brazil L4 Brazil L5 Euro 3 Euro 4 China national 1 national 1 Euro III Euro IV HDD HDD Japan LTP Japan Japan HDD HDD J-2000 NLT PNLT Russia Euro 3 Euro 2 Euro 4 Stage IIIB Stage IV non-road non-road European Euro III Euro IV Euro V Euro VI Union HDD HDD HDD HDD Euro 1 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 2 Euro 3 Euro 6 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 4 non-road USA US04 US07 US2010 HDD HDD HDD LEV I N-LEV LEV II CA CA 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production Sales of trucks fell sharply in the second half of the year, Year to 31st March particularly in Europe.
We estimate the market for HDD catalysts 2009 2008 change was around US $600 million of sales excluding precious metals in millions millions % calendar year 2008 with Johnson Matthey increasing its leading North America Sales 14.4 18.6 -22.6% market share.
Given current economic conditions it is difficult to Production 10.8 14.7 -26.5% predict truck sales in the future.
Some governments in developing Total Europe Sales 19.1 22.0 -13.2% Production 18.9 22.5 -16.0% countries may slow down introduction of emissions legislation because of the lack of availability of low sulphur diesel fuel.
Asia Sales 16.7 17.2 -2.9% Production 25.8 27.4 -5.8% However, based on existing legislation for on road and non-road Global Sales 60.3 68.5 -12.0% vehicles and industry forecasts for truck sales, we still expect the Production 61.6 71.1 -13.4% market for HDD catalysts to quadruple by the end of 2014.
During the year we completed most of the construction Source: Global Insight of two new facilities, one in western Pennsylvania, USA, to manufacture the additional catalysts required to meet the new The decline in sales of diesel particulate filters DPFs was HDD legislation in North America which takes effect from less than that for flow through catalysts.
Around seven million 1st January 2010, and the other in Macedonia to manufacture diesel cars were sold in Western Europe last year of which catalysts for both light duty and heavy duty vehicles in Europe.
about half were fitted with DPFs.
Over the next 18 months the Both of these facilities are expected to be operational by the DPF market is set to double as all new diesel cars sold in the autumn of 2009.
European Union will require fitment in January 2011.
China is the worlds largest producer and consumer of In response to the fall in demand ECT increased its coal and more than 70% of the countrys NOx emissions are programme to reduce costs.
Total headcount fell by 13%, the generated by coal fired power plants.
These harmful emissions majority of whom were agency workers.
Production efficiency result in high levels of ozone and acid rain.
The State has been improved with reject costs more than halved.
Environmental Protection Administration in China is expected to Distribution costs per unit have also been reduced.
On an issue NOx control regulations that will come into effect in 2011. annualised basis these latter two initiatives have reduced costs In advance of these regulations many new coal fired power plants by 10 million at current volume levels.
have begun to purchase and install selective catalytic reduction Sales excluding precious metals of emission control SCR systems to control their NOx emissions.
Our SEC catalysts to markets other than light duty vehicles grew by 10% business already sells plate catalysts manufactured in Redwitz, on a constant currency basis.
These products include heavy duty Germany to the Chinese market and we are constructing a diesel HDD catalysts for trucks, buses and non-road vehicles, new facility in Shanghai, China to manufacture these products and stationary emissions control SEC systems for reducing locally to meet the rapid increase in demand in 2011. emissions in a wide range of applications including power generation, industrial processes, coal power plants, marine and locomotives.
Currently these applications account for 25% of Process Technologies ECTs sales excluding precious metals and are expected to Process Technologies sales excluding precious metals grew by grow significantly over the next few years despite the current 11%.
Translated at constant exchange rates the growth was 8%.
Growth in 2008 09 was mainly the result The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas AMOG business was of a good contribution from Argillon which was acquired in well ahead of last year with continued strong demand for catalysts February 2008. and purification materials for industries where hydrogen or synthesis gas are key intermediates.
18 - Johnson Matthey Coal Power Plant SCR Catalyst Market US$ millions USA Europe China Taiwan Japan ROW South Korea 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: Boston Consulting Group Air Products industrial gas facility at Convent, Louisiana, USA.
Fuel Cells Demand for methanol catalysts was strong in the second half of the year as a result of good catalyst sales for new The net expense of our Fuel Cells business continues to fall as projects.
There is increasing global interest in methanol as an demand for its products grows.
In 2008 09 the net expense fell alternative fuel constituent, particularly in China, where a by 0.7 million to 5.7 million.
As the early markets for fuel number of new methanol plants came on stream.
Despite the cells continue to develop there was growing demand for our fall in the oil price, demand for hydrogen catalysts was strong range of customised membrane electrode assemblies from both throughout the year.
Hydrogen is an essential component in existing and new customers.
refinery desulphurisation processes and growing demand The ease of deployment of direct methanol fuel cells continues to be supported by legislation requiring low sulphur DMFC has helped to grow sales of portable devices for leisure diesel, particularly in the developing world.
In the coming and military markets.
Several companies are at an advanced decade increasingly stringent regulation of marine diesel is likely stage in the development of DMFC battery rechargers that to further increase the requirement for fuel desulphurisation.
remove the dependence of batteries on mains charging.
The Refineries and Purification business continued to grow We view the high profile announcements on support for well, with increasing demand for gas and liquid stream purification electric vehicles by the US and UK governments as very positive products in refineries and in primary gas production.
Legislative for the future use of fuel cells in vehicles.
Hybrid electric vehicles and commercial concerns regarding impurities such as sulphur, currently require an internal combustion engine ICE to chlorine and mercury continue to underpin growing demand recharge the battery or extend the battery range before mains for purification products.
Replacing the ICE with a more efficient fuel cell is Davy Process Technology DPT had another good year, straightforward and results in a completely zero emission vehicle.
securing licence and engineering sales for two oxo alcohol Fuel cell systems using natural gas as a fuel have negligible plants, a butanediol plant and a biodiesel plant.
DPT was also environmental impact and enable the deployment of combined successful in licensing four new methanol plants.
Although new heat and power units in urban areas at the scale of a commercial project activity around the world has reduced because of the building.
This allows significant reductions in carbon emissions global recession and the credit crunch, concerns over energy while providing other benefits such as backup power to offices, security continue to drive coal based projects in countries such hotels and hospitals in a cost effective package.
The use of fuel as China which want to reduce their reliance on imported oil, cells to provide power for the new Freedom Tower in New and DPT has leading technology in this area.
York is an example of the commercial development of this At the end of the financial year, we were in the final stages market and the substantial government support available in the of constructing a new world scale and class leading methanol USA for this technology should stimulate further demand for synthesis catalyst facility at Clitheroe, UK.
The new catalysts fuel cells.
from this plant will build upon our long experience in methanol synthesis and will provide significant benefits to customers, enabling them to increase throughput and operational efficiency.
Process Technologies has also developed other technologies which have potential to lower energy use and reduce CO emissions for our customers.
Increased interest 2 in coal to products and low carbon technologies provides additional support to long term growth.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Precious Metal Products Division Year to 31st March % 2009 2008 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 5,016 4,688 7 Sales excluding precious metals 314 307 2 -8 Operating profit 119.7 102.1 17 9 Description of the Business Key Statistics Return on sales excluding precious metals 38.1% Precious Metal Products Division is organised into five businesses: Return on invested capital ROIC 81.8% Capital expenditure 14.7m Platinum Marketing and Distribution Capex depreciation 0.9 times The business consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and Average invested capital 146m distribution activities.
Marketing is headquartered in Royston, Employees 1,895 UK with support facilities in Philadelphia, USA and Hong Kong.
We are the worlds leading distributor of platinum group metals Performance in 2008 09 pgms and the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest producer of platinum.
Precious Metal Products Divisions revenue increased by 7% to 5,016 million, boosted by higher prices for platinum group Noble Metals metals in the first half of the year.
Sales excluding the value of Noble Metals produces a wide range of precious metal and precious metals were 2% up at 314 million benefiting from other fabricated products for industrial and medical applications.
At constant currency rates Johnson Matthey is the market leader in pgm fabricated sales excluding precious metals fell by 8% with demand for products for industrial applications.
Manufacturing takes place in products sold to the automotive industry declining in the the UK and USA.
Operating profit grew by 17% to 119.7 million.
Pgm Refining and Recycling Translated at constant exchange rates operating profit grew by Our Pgm Refining and Recycling business includes the recovery 9%, with all the growth in the first half of the year.
of pgms from spent catalysts and other secondary materials and refining primary pgms from global mining operations.
We have Platinum Marketing and Distribution facilities in the UK and USA.
Profits in our Platinum Marketing and Distribution business Colour Technologies increased in turbulent market conditions with very strong growth Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies in the first six months of the year.
Global demand for platinum business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver fell by 5% in the calendar year 2008.
Demand for platinum in conductive materials for automotive glass.
It also makes colours, autocatalysts decreased by 8%, depressed by the global slowdown enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass in car production in the second half of the calendar year.
Some applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as for support for demand came from rising car production in China and tableware and other ceramic applications.
Manufacturing takes from tightening legislation in Europe which encouraged greater use place in the Netherlands, USA and South Korea.
of platinum rich particulate filters on passenger cars.
Net demand from jewellery manufacturers also declined for the year as a whole Gold and Silver as high platinum prices in the first half of the year encouraged the Gold and Silver comprises our gold and silver refining and bullion recycling of old jewellery.
However, the much lower price of manufacturing operations.
The business serves the worlds mining platinum in the second half of the year saw a significant recovery industries and recycles secondary scrap material.
Gold and silver in jewellery demand, particularly in the key Chinese market.
refining operations are located in the USA and Canada.
Despite recent investment, mine supplies of platinum declined, with continuing production problems in South Africa affecting all the major producers.
The fall in production outweighed the fall in demand, resulting in an increased supply demand deficit.
20 - Johnson Matthey Supply of Platinum 2004-2008 Demand for Platinum 2004-2008 Supply of Palladium 2004-2008 Demand for Palladium 2004-2008 Million oz Million oz Million oz Million oz South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial Investment South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Electronics Other net net 7 7 9 8 8 7 6 6 7 6 5 5 6 5 4 4 5 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 The price of platinum declined rapidly in the first half of Demand for medical products produced at our three sites in the financial year from near record levels in April 2008 to a low California, USA remained strong as our customers launched point in October when the price had more than halved.
Fears new products into the cardiovascular sector.
of sharply falling demand as the global economy faced deep recession led to a widespread liquidation of commodities from Pgm Refining and Recycling which platinum was not excluded, in spite of a relatively Pgm Refining and Recycling generated good results during favourable supply demand balance.
Platinum started the year 2008 09 assisted by high pgm prices and strong intakes in the at $2,192 oz in April, just below its record high, but averaged first half.
However deliveries in the second half fell, particularly only $1,380 oz for the year as a whole.
in the important autocatalyst scrap sector, due to lower metal Palladium demand increased slightly in calendar year 2008. prices and the knock-on effect from the slowdown in new car Falling demand from the US autocatalyst market was broadly sales.
Ongoing work on process improvements delivered balanced by increases in other regions, particularly Asia.
Demand further reductions in the amount of pgms held in the refining from the jewellery sector increased as recycling of old stock circuit.
The business contributed around 15% of the divisions diminished and investment demand from physically backed operating profit in 2008 09 but is expected to be much weaker Exchange Traded Funds also increased.
Palladium supplies fell by in 2009 10 if current market conditions continue.
15% as primary production and sales from Russian state stocks both declined.
This resulted in a sharply reduced supply Colour Technologies demand surplus.
The palladium price reached its peak for the year in June Colour Technologies had a difficult year with a marked slowdown at $475 oz, but could not escape from the general fall in prices in activity in the second half.
Demand from the automotive glass that also overtook platinum.
The average price for the year of industry for obscuration enamels and conductive inks was well $295 oz was 23% lower than in 2007 08. down.
However, we maintained our reputation for product The correction in the price of rhodium was even more innovation by successfully commercialising a range of new dramatic, having reached a record price of $10,100 oz in June.
These included low bismuth enamels Falling demand from the autocatalyst sector in the second half with very high chemical durability, new environmentally friendly of the year seriously weakened the relatively small but volatile decorative precious metal products for tableware applications and market for rhodium.
By November the price had fallen below a range of fire retardant products for a newly developing market.
$1,000 oz, recovering slightly in the remainder of the year to average $4,851 oz for 2008 09 as a whole.
Gold and Silver The divisions Gold and Silver business enjoyed an excellent Noble Metals year as record gold prices boosted flows of secondary and Our Noble Metals business had a successful year.
Demand for primary materials for refining.
Whilst revenue and profits were fabricated pgm products for industrial applications remained well ahead of previous year, the business was also able to strong throughout most of the year, although our US operations improve metal throughput times which resulted in a significant sales were slower in the final quarter.
The market for catalysts to reduction in metal holdings.
control emissions of nitrous oxide, a powerful greenhouse gas, grew quickly in 2008 09 and we were able to establish a market leading position.
Further growth is expected in the coming year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 21 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division Year to 31st March % 2009 2008 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 606 521 16 2 Sales excluding precious metals 347 303 15 3 Operating profit 72.8 67.1 8 -1 before restructuring charges.
Description of the Business Key Statistics Return on sales excluding precious metals 21.0% Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division is a global supplier of fine Return on invested capital ROIC 14.1% chemicals, catalysts and other speciality chemical products and Capital expenditure 23.4m services to a wide range of chemical and pharmaceutical Capex depreciation 1.0 times Average invested capital 516m industry customers and research institutes.
Employees 1,689 Catalysts and Chemicals The Catalysts and Chemicals business manufactures precious Performance in 2008 09 and base metal catalysts, fine chemicals and electrochemical products.
The business sells its products to customers in the Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division achieved good growth in speciality chemical, pharmaceutical, fine chemical and other reported sales, largely as a result of favourable exchange markets.
Manufacturing takes place in the UK, USA, Germany, translation.
Many of the divisions businesses are located outside India and China.
the UK, particularly in the USA, and sales reported in sterling benefited from currency movements.
Revenue increased by 16% Macfarlan Smith to 606 million, sales excluding precious metals rose by 15% to Macfarlan Smith manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients 347 million and operating profit grew by 8% to 72.8 million.
APIs and intermediate products for the pharmaceutical industry.
Translated at constant exchange rates, sales excluding precious The business specialises in APIs for controlled drugs, particularly metals increased by 3% and operating profit fell by 1%.
Most of Macfarlan Smiths customers are generic The divisions Fine Chemicals businesses Macfarlan Smith, pharmaceutical companies.
The business is headquartered in Pharmaceutical Materials and Services and Research Chemicals Edinburgh, UK.
achieved good growth in the year.
These businesses contributed Pharmaceutical Materials and Services 220 million 36% of the divisions revenue: 215 million The Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business manufactures 62% of sales excluding precious metals: and 49.5 million APIs and provides services to the pharmaceutical industry.
The 68% of operating profit before restructuring charges.
business specialises in the manufacture of platinum based From 1st April 2009, the remaining business in the division, anticancer APIs and controlled drugs and provides a full range Catalysts and Chemicals, has been transferred to Precious of commercial scale manufacturing services for APIs to both Metal Products Division.
As a result, in the reported results for generic and branded pharmaceutical companies.
The business 2009 10 we will be showing Fine Chemicals as a separate has operations in the USA and Ireland.
segment and including the results of Catalysts and Chemicals within Precious Metal Products Division.
Catalysts and Research Chemicals Chemicals revenue for 2008 09 was 386 million: sales The Research Chemicals business is a globally integrated excluding precious metals 132 million: and operating profit catalogue based supplier of speciality inorganic and organic 23.3 million.
It operates under the Alfa Aesar brand name and is based in the UK, USA, Germany, China and India.
22 - Johnson Matthey Catalyst and chemical manufacturing in Shanghai, China.
Researching the application of chiral technologies.
Catalysts and Chemicals Pharmaceutical Materials and Services Catalysts and Chemicals achieved good growth in the first half The divisions Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business of the year but sales fell in the second half as demand for some was ahead of last year with good sales of methylphenidate and products declined in response to the global recession.
Sales of platinum based anticancer APIs were metal salts used in the manufacture of catalysts for the similar to last year with increased sales of oxaliplatin.
However, automotive industry were well down and sales of catalysts used revenue from contract research was adversely affected by the in the manufacture of edible oils, which had enjoyed good sales lack of venture capital funding for a number of our smaller growth in the first half, weakened in the second six months of customers.
On 4th April 2009, Barr Laboratories now part of the year.
By contrast, sales of catalysts to the pharmaceutical Teva Pharmaceutical Industries launched its generic version of industry were strong throughout the year with good demand ADDERALL XR.
Pharmaceutical Materials and Services has an for pgm based heterogeneous catalysts, palladium coupling agreement with Barr Laboratories which will provide additional catalysts and chiral ligands.
income for the first six months after launch during which period Our expansion of capacity in China for the manufacture Barr Laboratories has market exclusivity for this generic product.
of pgm based chemicals and catalysts became fully operational In March 2009 we announced the closure of our facility in during the year, and additional capacity for sponge nickel Ireland which manufactures prostaglandin APIs for the European catalysts for the local Chinese market will start production in market.
We plan to consolidate prostaglandin API manufacturing the summer of 2009. at our facility in Massachusetts, USA.
The closure has resulted in a 9.4 million restructuring charge in this years accounts.
Macfarlan Smith Research Chemicals Macfarlan Smiths sales of opiate products were well up on last year with good demand for codeine phosphate.
Sales of Research Chemicals achieved good growth in the year with specialist opiates were also strong, particularly oxycodone.
increased sales in North America, Europe and Asia.
Sales were In the non-opiate sector, sales of galantamine showed good held back in China during the Olympics but recovered well growth as a result of the launch of generic alternatives to later in the year.
On 2nd March 2009 we purchased our Razadyne.
Manufacturing costs rose, particularly the cost of partners 49% share of our catalogue joint venture in China for energy, which reduced return on sales, but operating profit was 5.2 million.
With increasing demand for its products, the still comfortably ahead of last year.
business is investing in the expansion of facilities in India and in Europe and has a new manufacturing joint venture in Yantai, China which will begin operations in summer 2009.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Micrograph of platinum core shell catalysts.
Developing and testing the next generation of emission control catalysts.
Characterisation using x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy at our Technology Centre.
Single crystal x-ray characterisation of platinum containing species.
