94 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 December 2009 b Basis of accounting 1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Kazakhmys PLC the Company is a public limited company historical cost basis, except for certain classes of property, plant and incorporated in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern th equipment which have been revalued at 1 January 2002 to determine Ireland.
The Companys registered address is 6 Floor, Cardinal deemed cost as part of the first-time adoption of International Place, 100 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL, United Kingdom.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS at that date, available for sale The Group comprises the Company and its consolidated divisions investments and derivative financial instruments which have been as set out below.
The consolidated financial statements are The Group operates in the natural resources industry.
The Groups presented in US dollars $ and all financial information has been operations are primarily conducted through the Companys principal rounded to the nearest million dollar $ million except when division, Kazakhmys Copper, whose major business is the mining and otherwise indicated.
processing of copper ore into copper cathodes and copper wire, and c Basis of consolidation the refining and sale of precious metals and other by-products of its The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial copper mining process.
position as at 31 December 2009 and the Groups financial The Group operates in a number of divisions within the natural performance for the year ended 31 December 2009. resources sector, the principal activities of which are as follows as Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group.
Control at 31 December 2009: exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern Operating division Principal activity Primary country of operations the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain Kazakhmys Copper Mining and Kazakhstan benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on processing copper which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated MKM Copper processing Germany from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Kazakhmys Power Power generation Kazakhstan The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same Kazakhmys Gold Mining and Kazakhstan reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
processing gold All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised Kazakhmys Petroleum Oil and gas Kazakhstan profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in exploration full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is Kazakhmys Power and MKM are included as discontinued operations no evidence of impairment.
within the financial statements see note 5.
Minority interests primarily represent the interests in Kazakhmys LLC The legal names of the constituent companies within the above not held by the Company.
The Company applies the equity concept divisions are shown in note 44 on page 149. method of consolidation and accounts for the acquisition of minority interests within equity.
BASIS OF PREPARATION Refer to note 44 for a list of the Companys significant subsidiaries.
The financial statements set out on pages 86 to 150 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies.
The Company has d Statement of compliance taken the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 The consolidated financial statements of the Company and all its and has not published the Companys income statement and subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued related notes.
by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting a Going concern Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as adopted by the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to European Union, and in accordance with the provisions of the impact its future growth and operating performance are set out in Companies Act 2006. the Business Review on pages 2 to 57.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, financial risk management policies and e Adoption of standards and interpretations available debt facilities are described in the Financial Review on In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has pages 36 to 47.
In addition, note 33 commencing on page 136 sets applied the following standards and interpretations before or on out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its their effective dates: capital structure, liquidity position and financial risks arising from Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment exposures to commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange.
The Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 2 on With the recovery in the commodity prices throughout 2009 and into 1 January 2009.
The amendment to IFRS 2 has three elements: i early 2010 and the disposal of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the Group the definition of share based transactions and arrangements has has a strong cash position with available funds of $903 million at been amended, ii the scope of IFRS 2 has been amended, and iii 31 December 2009 and reduced debt levels of $1,650 million.
guidance on the accounting for Group cash-settled share-based The Directors have considered the Groups financial position, payment transactions has been provided.
Adoption of the the available credit facilities, the outlook for the Groups products, amendment did not have a significant effect on the financial along with accessibility to customers in the key markets of China position or performance of the Group: and Europe, and believe there is sufficient cover to meet the IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The amended standard, Groups anticipated cash flow requirements.
effective from 1 January 2009, requires additional disclosures After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue disclosed by source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management.
The fair value measurement disclosures have not been presented as the value of financial instruments held at fair value is not material.
The liquidity risk disclosures are not STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 95 significantly impacted by the amendments and are presented Improvements to IFRSs.
The IASBs improvements project is an in Note 33: annual project that provides a mechanism for making non-urgent but necessary amendments to IFRSs.
There are a number of IFRS 8 replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting with effect from amendments to standards following the 2008 improvements 1 January 2009.
The Group concluded that the operating segments project which may result in consequential changes to accounting determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business policies and other note disclosures.
The Group does not expect segments previously identified under IAS 14.
IFRS 8 disclosures are the impact of any changes to the consolidated financial statements shown in note 6, including the related revised comparative arising from this project to be significant.
information, where applicable: and These standards and interpretations will be adopted by the Group The Group adopted IFRS 1 Presentation of financial statements on the date that they become effective.
The Directors do not with effect from 1 January 2009.
Adoption of the standard did not anticipate, in light of the circumstances prevailing at the date of have a significant effect on the financial position or performance of approval of this Annual Report, that the adoption of these standards the Group.
and interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on f New standards and interpretations not yet adopted the reported income or net assets of the Group in the period of initial In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has not application although the manner in which certain information is applied the following relevant standards and interpretations that have presented in the consolidated financial statements may change.
been issued but are not yet effective: g Change in accounting policies IFRS 3 Business combinations Revised which is effective for There have been no changes to accounting policies during the year, annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 Revised except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations as introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business disclosed in note 2 e. combinations occurring after this date that will impact the amount h Significant accounting judgements and estimates of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an i Judgements acquisition occurs and future reported results: Determining many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements involves the use of judgements.
These IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements Revised judgements are based on managements best knowledge of the which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July relevant facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, 2009.
IAS 27 Revised requires that a change in the ownership but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for consolidated financial statements.
The Directors believe that the as an equity transaction.
Therefore, such transactions will no following judgements, apart from those involving estimates, are likely longer give rise to goodwill, nor will they give rise to a gain or to have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting consolidated financial statements.
for losses incurred by a subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary: Equity accounting At 31 December 2009, the Group owned 26.0% of ENRC PLC, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement a Kazakhstan-based mining company listed on the London Stock eligible hedged items.
These amendments to IAS 39 were issued in Exchange.
The investment has been recorded as an associate and July 2008 and become effective for financial years beginning on or accounted for under the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 after 1 July 2009.
The amendment addresses the designation of a Investments in Associates.
IAS 28 states that there is a rebuttable one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the designation of inflation as a presumption that significant influence exists where an investor holds hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
It clarifies that an entity more than 20% of the voting power of the investee.
Although is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash Kazakhmys does not have representation on the board of ENRC, the flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
The Group Directors believe that the Group has the ability to exercise significant has concluded that the amendment will have no impact on the influence by virtue of its substantial shareholding, whereby the Group financial position or performance of the Group: owns in excess of 25% of the issued share capital of ENRC and is the Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial single largest shareholder.
Instruments which is effective for annual periods beginning on or This interest confers the Group with certain additional rights and after 1 July 2009.
The amendment permits an entity to reclassify influence under the Companies Act 2006 CA06 which allows the non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair Group to block special resolutions proposed by ENRC at general value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition meetings.
Consequentially, through the provisions of the CA06, out of the fair value through profit or loss category in particular the Group is able to participate in policy making processes of ENRC, circumstances.
The amendment also permits an entity to transfer including participation about distributions such as share buy-backs, from the available for sale category to the loans and receivables which form part of ENRCs capital management strategy.
category a financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables if the financial asset had not been The Directors are of the view that the Group has influence over the designated as available for sale, if the entity has the intention and acquisition strategy of ENRC by having the ability in essence to block ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future.
The related party transactions, which ENRC have a history of making, Group has concluded that the amendment will have no impact where these transactions are over and above the fide-minimis on the financial position or performance of the Group: exemption in the Listing Rules.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, which is Furthermore, the frequency and nature of meetings between the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. two companies has changed substantially since the Group increased IFRIC 17 clarifies the terms as to the recognition of dividends its shareholding above 25%, with matters such as acquisition strategy payable and their measurement for non-cash items.
This and the exchange of technical information regarding power interpretation is not expected to have any effect on the Group as it generation, taxation and mining safety being discussed.
generally does not distribute any non-cash assets to shareholders: In the Directors judgement, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over ENRC.
The Directors therefore believe that it remains appropriate for the Group to equity account for its interest in ENRC in accordance with IAS 28.
96 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATIONCONTINUED subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division to Samruk, for Useful economic lives and impairment indicators consideration of $681 million, the Directors have classified Ekibastuz Tangible and intangible assets are depreciated over their useful GRES-1 LLP as an asset held for sale at the balance sheet date, and economic lives.
Management reviews the appropriateness of useful correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated economic lives at least annually and any changes could affect income statement.
The transaction completed in February 2010 and the prospective depreciation rates and hence, asset carrying values.
Group has retained a non-controlling interest of 50% in the entity which Management also reviews the carrying value of the Groups tangible shall be accounted for as a joint venture after the date of completion.
and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication Furthermore, the Directors have decided to dispose of the Maikuben of impairment such that the carrying values of the assets may not be West coal mine also within Kazakhmys Power Division following a recoverable.
The assessment of whether an indicator of impairment change in the long-term strategy of the coal mine as a result of the has arisen can require considerable judgement taking account of sale of 50% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station to Samruk.
This future operational and financial plans, commodity prices, sales business has therefore been classified as an asset held for sale at demand and the competitive environment.
The carrying value of the balance sheet date, and correspondingly as part of discontinued the assets of a cash generating unit is compared with the recoverable operations in the consolidated income statement.
amount of those assets, that is, the higher of net realisable value and value in use, which is determined on the basis of discounted Consequently, the businesses within the Kazakhmys Power Division future cash flows.
This involves management estimates on commodity are shown as discontinued operations and assets held for sale.
prices, market demand and supply, economic and regulatory The Directors consider that the businesses within the Kazakhmys climates, long-term mine plans and other factors.
Any subsequent Power Division meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale at changes to cash flows due to changes in the above mentioned the balance sheet date.
factors could impact the carrying value of the assets.
Additionally, the Directors have decided to dispose of MKM given The global economic downturn has resulted in management the Groups strategy is to focus on natural resource opportunities in undertaking a series of impairment tests.
These tests have resulted the Central Asian region.
This business has therefore been classified in the following impairment charges being recognised in the as an asset held for sale at the balance sheet date, and consolidated income statement: correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement.
A write down has been recognised as MKMs Kazakhmys Gold an impairment charge has been recognised recoverable amount is re-measured to fair value less costs to sell.
following a decision not to proceed with the Akjilga development The Directors consider that MKM meets the criteria to be classified project in Tajikistan in the foreseeable future as more economically as held for sale at the balance sheet date, including, in particular, attractive projects exist within the Group see note 8 : that a disposal is considered to be highly probable in 2010.
MKM an impairment charge has been recognised to write down For more details on discontinued operations, refer to note 5. the carrying value of MKM to its fair value in light of a number of impairment indications arising during the second half of 2009 Determination of mineral extraction tax following the economic weakness in Europe, MKMs core The mineral extraction tax MET was introduced in the 2009 Tax Code marketplace see note 5 a : and that came into force on 1 January 2009 in order to offset the reduction in corporate income tax rates within Kazakhstan.
MET legislation has Kazakhmys Power an impairment charge has been recognised to evolved during the year to take into account the economic environment write down the carrying value of Maikuben West to its recoverable within Kazakhstan such that certain tax benefits might be provided to amount following the decision to dispose of 50% of the Ekibastuz subsoil users whose mineral deposits are of low or no profitability.
In GRES-1 power station to Samruk see note 5 b. determining the MET expense for each subsoil contract, judgement is Allocation of excess purchase consideration required as to the full year profitability of each subsoil contract taking Business combinations require judgement and estimates to be made into account prevailing and future commodity prices as well as the at the date of acquisition in relation to determining asset and liability underlying cost base.
This profitability assessment impacts on the MET fair values and the allocation of the purchase consideration over the rates applicable to each subsoil contract and consequentially the levels fair value of the assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, there is also considerable uncertainty within Kazakhstan as to the nature of the tax benefits that might be In respect of mining company acquisitions, excess purchase available, if at all, to subsoil users whose mineral deposits are of low consideration is typically allocated to the mining reserves and or no profitability.
In the determination of MET payable, the Directors resources being acquired.
The estimate of reserves is subject to believe the Groups judgements are reasonable and in compliance with assumptions relating to life of the mine and may change when new Kazakhstan legislation, although there is a risk that the tax authorities information becomes available.
Changes in reserves as a result of will have a different interpretation of tax legislation at the time of a factors such as production costs, recovery rates, grade of reserves future tax audit.
or commodity prices could impact depreciation rates, asset carrying values and environmental and restoration provisions.
Changes in Determination of excess profits taxation assumptions over long-term commodity prices, market demand and Prior to 1 January 2009, excess profits tax EPT was imposed on supply, and economic and regulatory climates could also impact the the Group in addition to Kazakhstan corporate income tax on certain carrying value of assets.
EPT was based on an approximation of the internal rate of return IRR with EPT being applicable only where In respect of non-mining company acquisitions, such as the acquisition the cumulative IRR exceeded 20%.
In determining the IRR for each of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station in May 2008, the purchase subsoil contract, there was considerable judgement involved as to the consideration is allocated to the fair value of specific assets and allocation of profit amongst the Groups subsoil contracts, the nature liabilities acquired, and any excess purchase consideration is then of deductions for capital expenditure and the timing of those recognised as goodwill, which is tested annually for impairment.
For the determination of EPT payable prior to 1 January Changes in assumptions over future tariff prices, market demand 2009, the Directors believe the Groups judgements are reasonable and supply, and economic and regulatory climates could impact on and in compliance with Kazakhstan legislation, although there is a risk the carrying value of assets, including the goodwill.
that the tax authorities will have a different interpretation of tax Assets held for sale and discontinued operations legislation at the time of a future tax audit.
Following the announcement on 10 December 2009 that the Group had agreed to dispose of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, a 100% owned STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 97 i Comparative figures Following the introduction of the 2009 Tax Code on 1 January 2009, Where a change in the presentational format of the consolidated management has interpreted the new tax legislation and believe financial statements has been made during the year, comparative that EPT is not applicable to the Groups operations during 2009. figures have been restated accordingly.
This view is supported by discussions and correspondence with the governmental authorities.
The Directors believe the Groups 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING judgements at the current time are reasonable and in compliance POLICIES with Kazakhstan tax legislation, although there is a risk that the tax The following significant accounting policies have been applied in authorities will have a different interpretation of tax legislation at the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
These the time of a future tax audit.
accounting policies have been consistently applied across the Group.
Accounting for potential transfer pricing liabilities a Foreign currency translation For the years ended 31 December 2006 to 2009, Kazakhmys LLC The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined sold its exported products to Kazakhmys PLC 2006 and 2007 and as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it Kazakhmys Sales Ltd 2008 and 2009, a wholly owned subsidiary operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional of Kazakhmys PLC, under an exclusive purchasing agreement at the currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling prevailing LME or LBMA prices, with a discount to LME or LBMA at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities prices permitted by Kazakhstan transfer pricing legislation and denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of reflecting the commercial and credit risks borne by the UK exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Management believe that these prices, and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions translated at accompanying discount where applicable, reflect the balance of the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation commercial and credit risks shared between Kazakhmys LLC and of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, are the UK operations.
taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities Management has recognised the nature of the transfer pricing denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost legislation promulgated in Kazakhstan and the UK in determining any are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate consequential tax liabilities in these jurisdictions resulting from the ruling at the date of the transaction.
sale of exported products from Kazakhmys LLC to the UK operations The functional currencies of the Company and Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, for 2006 to 2009.
The Directors believe the Groups judgements are which became the primary UK trading entity with effect from reasonable and in compliance with UK and Kazakhstan transfer 1 January 2008, are the US dollar $ as the majority of the operating pricing legislation, although there is a risk that the tax authorities will activities are conducted in US dollars.
The functional currency of have a different interpretation of tax legislation at the time of a future Kazakhmys LLC, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold and Kazakhmys tax audit.
Petroleum is the Kazakhstan tenge KZT and of MKM is the Euro.
ii Estimation uncertainty On consolidation, income statements of subsidiaries are translated The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in into US dollars, at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and are translated into US dollars at period end exchange rates.
Exchange assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities differences on the retranslation are taken to a separate component at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported of equity.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
financing those net investments are also dealt with in equity.
All Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
The following foreign In particular, information about significant areas of estimation exchange rates against the US dollar have been used in the uncertainty made by the Directors in preparing the consolidated preparation of the consolidated financial statements: financial statements is shown below: 31 December Average 31 December Average Note 4 Business acquisition.
Assumptions and estimates are 2009 2009 2008 2008 required when determining the fair value of the net assets and Kazakhstan tenge 148.36 147.50 120.77 120.30 liabilities of the business acquired, including the timing of cash Euro 0.70 0.72 0.71 0.68 flows and selecting an appropriate discount rate: UK pounds Note 5 Discontinued operations.
Assumptions and estimates are sterling 0.63 0.64 0.69 0.54 required when determining the fair value less costs to sell of assets Devaluation of the tenge held for sale: In February 2009, the National Bank of Kazakhstan announced that Notes 8 and 16 Impairment losses.
Notes 8 and 16 outline the it would support the tenge within a range of 3%, at a lower level of significant assumptions made in performing impairment tests: 150 KZT $, resulting in a devaluation of the tenge of approximately 25%.
The impact of the devaluation in the consolidated financial Note 13 Income taxes.
Management make estimates in relation statements is as follows: to the level of taxes payable which may then be audited by the tax authorities: net finance income includes a foreign exchange gain of $336 million for continuing operations which primarily arises due Note 18 Mining assets.
Estimated recoverable reserves and to the retranslation of US dollar denominated monetary assets and resources are used to determine the depreciation of mining assets, liabilities within the Groups Kazakhstan subsidiaries which have a in accounting for mine stripping costs and in performing tenge functional currency.
The loss for the year from discontinued impairment testing: operations includes a foreign exchange loss of $53 million: Note 28 Provisions.
Estimates are made regarding the timing the goodwill balance arising on the acquisition of Kazakhmys of future payments: and Power has been retranslated as at 31 December 2009 since the Note 34 Commitments and contingencies.
These require goodwill arises in respect of businesses acquired whose functional management to make estimates as to amounts payable and currencies are the tenge.
This gives rise to a foreign exchange to determine the likelihood of cash outflows in the future.
loss of $109 million being recognised within equity and a corresponding reduction in the goodwill balance to $443 million 98 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED d Research and development 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect POLICIES CONTINUED of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, as at 31 December 2009 prior to the goodwill being re-classified is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
as an asset held for sale: Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are a non-cash foreign exchange loss of $1,060 million which includes applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially the $109 million goodwill foreign exchange loss has been improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or recognised within equity.
This is primarily due to the re-translation process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has on consolidation of the Groups Kazakhstan based subsidiaries sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure whose functional currency is the Kazakhstan tenge: and capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an a reduction in the carrying value of the investment in associate appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development of $342 million as the Group has recognised its share of the expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
foreign exchange loss recognised in equity by ENRC.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
b Business combinations On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase method of accounting e Property, plant and equipment is applied whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the i Initial measurement identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated net assets on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
The cost of a tangible fixed asset comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to The cost of the business combination is the aggregate of: a the fair bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of values at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour assumed, and equity instruments issued by the acquirer in exchange and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost or for control of the acquiree: and b cost directly attributable to the deemed cost of property, plant and equipment hereafter referred business combination.
to as cost at 1 January 2002, the date of Kazakhmys LLCs transition Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost to IFRS, was determined by reference to its depreciated replacement of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair cost at that date in accordance with IFRS 1. value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
ii Depreciation If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable The cost of each item of property, plant and equipment is net assets exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the Group depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has reassesses whether it has correctly identified and measured the assets due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present acquired and liabilities assumed and recognises any additional assets assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine or liabilities that are identified in that review.
If that excess remains property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful after reassessment, the Group recognises the resulting gain as lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery negative goodwill in the income statement on the acquisition date.
and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line c Intangible assets i Goodwill basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset or on a On the acquisition of a subsidiary, or of an interest in a joint venture, unit of production basis depending on the type of asset.
Changes in associate, or joint arrangement, the purchase consideration is estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted allocated to the assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair value for prospectively.
at the date of acquisition.
Those mineral reserves and resources that Depreciation commences on the date the assets are used within are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair the business.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other potential reserves, resources and mineral rights for which, in the Directors opinion, values cannot be reliably The expected useful lives are as follows: determined, are not recognised.
When the cost of acquisition Buildings 15-40 years exceeds the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the Plant and equipment 4-25 years identifiable net assets the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Other 3-15 years Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised, rather it is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is iii Construction in progress allocated to the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate units expected to benefit from the related business combination for component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the the purpose of the impairment testing.
An impairment loss in respect cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
of goodwill is not reversed.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
ii Other intangible assets iv Repairs and maintenance Other intangible assets, including mineral licences, which are Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, acquired by the Group and which have finite useful lives, are stated at plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, is capitalised cost which comprises its purchase price plus any directly attributable with the carrying amount of the replaced component being written costs of preparing the asset for its intended use less accumulated off.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is capitalised if future amortisation and impairment losses.
The cost of intangible assets economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other repairs acquired in a business combination is its fair value which can be and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement measured reliably as at the date of acquisition.
iii Amortisation v Government grants Intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise mineral Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is licence acquisition costs, which are amortised on a unit of production reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching basis.
Amortisation for other intangible assets, which have expected conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an useful lives of three to ten years, is computed under the straight-line expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods necessary method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired in a purchase fair value is credited to the cost of the asset and is released to the transaction are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition from income statement over the expected useful life in a consistent another mining company.
Exploration assets are reassessed on a manner with the depreciation method for the relevant asset.
regular basis and these costs are carried forward provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
vi Leasing and hire purchase commitments Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks Exploration and evaluation assets attributable to producing interests and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Plant and equipment acquired by way g Oil and gas assets of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair i Exploration, evaluation and production assets value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment oil and gas exploration and appraisal costs.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised in cost hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
centres by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate.
Directly Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and attributable administration costs are capitalised insofar as they relate reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of to specific exploration and development activities.
Pre-licence costs interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
are charged directly against income.
Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the All capitalised licence acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs asset or the lease term.
All other leases are treated as operating are then written off unless commercial reserves have been leases and the cost is expensed to the income statement as incurred.
established, or the determination process has not been completed and there are no indications of impairment.
f Mining assets i Mineral properties All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and Costs of acquiring mineral properties are capitalised on the balance equipment.
Property, plant and equipment related to production sheet in the year in which they are incurred.
Costs associated with activities are depreciated on a unit of production basis.
a start-up period for significant developments are capitalised during ii Commercial reserves the commissioning period development expenditure where Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas reserves, the asset is incapable of operating at normal levels without a which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, commissioning period.
Mineral properties are amortised using natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical proven developed and undeveloped reserves.
and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of ii Mine development costs certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs Mine development costs are, upon commencement of production, and which are considered commercially producible.
There should depreciated using a unit of production method, which is the ratio be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable of commodity production in the period to the estimated quantities reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and of commercial reserves over the life of the mine using proven probable reserves.
developed reserves as determined by the local geological iii Depletion and amortisation discovery fields classification system based on the estimated economically All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the recoverable reserves to which they relate.
commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which iii Mine stripping costs is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated Mine stripping costs incurred in order to access the mineral-bearing quantities of commercial reserves over the life of the field, generally ore deposits are deferred prior to the commencement of production.
Costs used in the unit of production Such costs are amortised over the remaining life of the mine on a unit calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the of production basis using proven developed reserves.
estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production with prospectively.
phase is deferred if the stripping activity permits an increase in the output of the mine in future periods through providing access to h Impairment additional sources of reserves that will be produced in future periods.
The Group conducts annual internal assessments of the values of Capitalised stripping costs are amortised in systematic manner over goodwill and capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
the reserves that directly benefit from the specific stripping activity.
Values of mine properties and property, plant and equipment are assessed for impairment when indicators of such impairment exist.
iv Exploration assets If any indication of impairment exists an estimate of the assets Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other recoverable amount is calculated.
than that acquired through a purchase of transaction, is carried forward as an asset provided that one of the following conditions is met: If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the such costs are expected to be recouped through successful income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount to its exploration and development of the area of interest or, recoverable amount i. e. the higher of fair value less costs to sell alternatively, by its sale: and value in use.
exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not Impairment losses related to continuing operations are recognised yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and the function of the impaired asset.
active and significant operations in relation to the area are continuing.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each Exploration expenditure which fails to meet at least one of the reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously conditions outlined above is written off.
Administrative and general recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have expenses relating to exploration and evaluation activities are decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate expensed as incurred.
A significant portion of exploration and of the recoverable amount.
evaluation expenditure relates to mineral licences, which are classified and accounted for as intangible assets.
100 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING The carrying amount of an available for sale investment at the date POLICIES CONTINUED it becomes an associate is considered to be its cost in applying the i Calculation of recoverable amount equity method.
Consequently, no adjustment is made to reverse The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in previous fair value adjustments.
Dividend income continues to be use and fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the recognised in the income statement up to the date the investment estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value becomes an associate.
Any gain recognised within other using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments comprehensive income remains there until the associate is either of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not j Parent companys investments generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from Non-current investments are held at cost.
The Company assesses other assets or groups of assets.
If this is the case, the recoverable investments for impairment whenever events or changes in amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may asset belongs.
The Groups cash-generating units are the smallest not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are Company makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Where the largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, of assets.
the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
ii Reversals of impairment A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there k Inventories has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets Raw materials and consumables are stated at the lower of cost and recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
net realisable value on a first-in first-out FIFO basis.
Cost includes If this is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying and consumables is the purchase price and for work in progress and amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset proportion of depreciation and overheads.
The cost of work in in prior years.
Such reversals are recognised in the income statement.
progress and finished goods is based on the weighted average cost Impairment losses recognised in relation to goodwill are not reversed method.
In the case of work in progress and finished goods, cost for subsequent increases in its recoverable amount.
includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
i Investment in associate Entities in which the Group has the ability to exercise significant Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be are associates, and are accounted for using the equity method incurred to completion and disposal.
There is a rebuttable presumption of the ability l Trade and other receivables to exercise significant influence when the Group holds between Trade receivables are carried at original invoice price which is the 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
fair value of the consideration receivable less provision made for Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the impairment of these receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the acquisition at cost representing the fair value of the purchase Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the consideration and therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition.
original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the The carrying amount is adjusted by the Groups share of the difference between the original carrying amount and the recoverable post-acquisition profit or loss net of any impairment losses and amount, being the present value of expected cash flows receivable.
dividends receivable from the associate.
Where there has been The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, m Cash and cash equivalents the Group recognises its share of such changes in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits held on call or with maturities less than three Adjustments are made in the consolidated financial statements months at inception and highly liquid investments that are readily to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject transactions between the Group and its associate.
The carrying value to insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts.
of the associate is reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the period in which those n Assets held for sale circumstances are identified.
The Groups share of an associates When an asset or disposal groups carrying value will be recovered losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not recognised principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
use, it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date respect of non-current assets held for sale.
on which it ceases to have the ability to exercise significant influence, and from that date, accounts for the investment in accordance with o Borrowings IAS 39 with its initial cost being the carrying amount of the associate Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the at that date, provided the investment does not then qualify as a consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates results after tax and the Groups statement of changes in equity includes any other amounts attributable to the equity holder recognised by the associate in the statement of comprehensive income.
STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 101 p Employee benefits discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage i Long-term employee benefits of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Kazakhmys LLC provides long-term employee benefits to employees i Site restoration costs before, on and after retirement, in accordance with a labour union Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated agreement.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded future costs of closure and restoration, and for environmental defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of The agreement provides for one-time retirement grants, financial aid, infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of dental care, medical benefits, long-term disability allowances, disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related sanatorium visits, annual financial support to pensioners, free tickets environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted where for city buses, privilege tickets for shuttle buses and funeral aid.
material and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance MKM provides for part-time work for older employees.
Over time, the discounted provision is increased for the change no long-term employee benefits provided in the United Kingdom.
in present value based on the discount rates that reflect current market assessments and the risks specific to the liability.
At the time The future benefit that employees have earned is discounted to of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised determine the present value.
The discount rate is the yield at the where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds that have production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups benefit reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary.
rates or life of operations.
Any change in restoration costs or The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses falling outside a assumptions will be recognised as additions or charges to the corridor of the greater of 10% of the benefit obligation or 10% corresponding asset and provision when they occur.
For permanently of the assets, amortised over the expected average future working closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately lifetime of employees in the arrangements.
The expense in relation in the income statement.
to these long-term employee benefits is charged to the income ii Payments for licences statement so as to match the cost of providing these benefits to In accordance with the terms of subsoil use contracts, provision is made the period of service of the employees.
for future licence payments when the Group has a present obligation ii Share-based payments to repay the costs of geological information provided for licensed Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration deposits.
The amount payable is discounted to its present value.
in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees iii Other render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are of resources and for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions is determined by an external consultant and the fair value r Revenue at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually third parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed consideration receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
Mining at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the royalties and mineral extraction taxes are included within cost of sales.
estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the have vested.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Revenue associated with the sale of goods is iii Own shares recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and Own equity instruments which are re-acquired own shares are rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is title and any insurance risk has passed to the customer and the goods recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or have been delivered in accordance with the contractual delivery cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference terms or when any services have been provided.
between the carrying amount and the consideration paid to acquire Almost all sales agreements for copper cathodes, copper rods and such equity instruments is recognised within equity.
copper and zinc concentrate are provisionally priced, i. e. the selling iv Trust activities price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a quotation period, Assets held in trust or in a fiduciary capacity are not treated as assets typically the average price either for the month or the month of the Group and, accordingly, are not included in the consolidated following delivery to the customer, based on the LME market price financial statements.
Transactions entered into with these trust for the relevant quotation period stipulated in the contract.
Such a activities are expensed in the consolidated financial statements.
provisional sale contains an embedded derivative which is required to be separated from the host contract.
The host contract is the sale v Social programmes of commodity at the provisional invoice price, and the embedded The Group is obliged to contribute towards social programmes derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale is for the benefit of the local community at large.
At each reporting date, the provisionally contributions towards these programmes are expensed to the priced metal sales are marked-to-market using forward prices, with income statement as incurred.
adjustments both gains and losses being recorded in revenue in q Provisions the consolidated income statement and in trade receivables in the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation consolidated balance sheet.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where 102 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED x Financial instruments 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING i Recognition POLICIES CONTINUED The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its balance s Finance income Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of foreign exchange gains.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, the instrument.
calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported t Finance costs in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings which are the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net not capitalised under the borrowing costs policy see 3 u below, the basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
unwinding of interest cost on provisions and foreign exchange losses.
ii Measurement u Borrowing costs When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they are Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, measured at fair value being the consideration given or received plus commencement of construction or production of qualifying assets directly attributable transaction costs.
Any gain or loss at initial after 1 January 2008 which are assets that necessarily take a recognition is recognised in the income statement.
substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at quoted are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets, until such bid prices on the trade date.
When quoted prices on an active market time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or are not available, fair value is determined by reference to price sale.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs relating to quotations for similar instruments traded.
construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2008.
The Group classifies investments depending upon the intent of All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement management at the time of the purchase.
Investments with fixed in the period in which they are incurred as part of finance costs.
maturities and fixed or determinable payments that management Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity has both the positive intent, and the ability to hold to maturity, incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
v Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income Loans and receivables are loans and receivables created by the tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that Group providing money to a debtor.
Loans and receivables comprise it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case loans and advances other than purchased loans.
it is recognised in equity.
Excess profits tax is treated as income tax Held-to-maturity investments and originated loans and receivables and forms part of the income tax expense.
are initially recognised in accordance with the policy stated above Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect interest method.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Assets held for trading are financial assets held for short-term trading providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of purposes, and are measured at fair value through the income statement.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets and used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are include investments that are held for sale, although there is no time not provided for: frame in which management is required to sell them.
They are those arising on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date, in the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit which case they are included within current assets.
These assets are or loss: and recorded at fair value with the unrealised movements in fair value being recognised directly in equity until disposal or sale, at which investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the time, those unrealised movements from prior periods are recognised temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the in the income statement.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as commodity Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that forward contracts to hedge risks associated with commodity price are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the fluctuations.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable the hedged item.
right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that taxation authority.
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is w Dividends recognised immediately in the income statement, and is either Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are included in the other operating income or other operating approved by shareholders.
Dividends receivable are recognised when expenses line.
the Groups right to receive payment is established.
com 103 Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over the contractual rights that comprise that asset.
This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished.
Held-to-maturity instruments and originated loans and receivables are derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Group.
iv Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
For available for sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement and increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
104 104 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4. BUSINESS ACQUISITION EKIBASTUZ POWER PLANT AND MAIKUBEN WEST COAL MINE On 29 May 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-fired power plant and Maikuben West coal mine in Kazakhstan.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations based on further tax information received during 2009 in relation to the fair value of provisions at the acquisition date, the acquisition fair value table has been amended such that the fair value of provisions is $26 million lower at $21 million than that published in the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, the restated net identifiable assets balance is $696 million previously: $670 million and goodwill arising on acquisition is $568 million previously: $594 million.
The final fair value table is shown below.
Fair value at Fair value Fair value at acquisition Carrying value adjustments acquisition date at acquisition at acquisition date $ million date date provisional Adjustments final Assets Intangible assets 6 5 1 1 Property, plant and equipment 131 858 989 989 Mining assets 1 45 46 46 Inventories 17 1 18 18 Trade and other receivables 26 8 34 34 Cash and cash equivalents 102 102 102 Liabilities Deferred tax liability 12 267 279 279 Provisions 14 33 47 26 21 Borrowings 159 159 159 Trade and other payables 35 35 35 Net identifiable assets 63 607 670 26 696 Goodwill arising on acquisition 594 26 568 Total acquisition cost 1,264 1,264 As a requirement of IFRS, the goodwill balance has been re-translated as at 31 December 2009 since the goodwill arises in respect of businesses acquired whose functional currencies are the Kazakhstan tenge.
This gives rise to a foreign exchange loss of $109 million being recognised within equity and a corresponding reduction in the goodwill balance to $443 million as at 31 December 2009 prior to the goodwill being impaired by $16 million and reclassified as an asset held for sale see note 5.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Discontinued operations consist of MKM see note 5 a and the Kazakhmys Power Division see note 5 b comprising the Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-fired power plant and Maikuben West coal mine.
Following the announcement on 10 December 2009 that the Group had agreed to dispose of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, a 100% owned subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division, to Samruk for a consideration of $681 million, the Directors have classified Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP as an asset held for sale at the balance sheet date, and correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement.
The transaction completed in February 2010 and the Group has retained a non-controlling interest of 50% in the entity which shall be accounted for as a joint venture after the date of completion.
The results from discontinued operations for the year as shown in the consolidated income statement are shown below: $ million 2009 2008 Revenues 1,276 1,875 Cost of sales 1,050 1,777 Operating costs 100 115 Impairment losses 101 19 Net finance costs 87 22 Impairment loss recognised on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell 158 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 220 58 Income taxes: Related to current year loss before taxation current and deferred taxes 1 148 Related to measurement to fair value less costs to sell deferred tax 7 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 214 90 Analysed as: MKM 130 41 Kazakhmys Power 84 131 The MKM and Kazakhmys Power operations represent separate major business lines of the Group.
As a result, these operations have been treated as discontinued operations at 31 December 2009.
A single amount is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the post-tax result of discontinued operations and the post-tax loss recognised on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell of the discontinued operations.
Accordingly, the income and expenses of both MKM and Kazakhmys Power are reported separately from the continuing operations of the Group.
The consolidated income statement for the prior year has been restated to conform to this style of presentation.
The assets and liabilities of these divisions are also separately shown within the consolidated balance sheet as single line items within current assets and current liabilities.
The 2008 consolidated balance sheet has not been restated.
com 105 The balance sheets of the discontinued operations are shown below: $ million 2009 Assets Intangible assets 444 Property, plant and equipment 801 Inventories 196 Prepayments and other current assets 3 Trade and other receivables 129 Cash and cash equivalents 42 Assets classified as held for sale 1,615 Liabilities Deferred tax liability 110 Employee benefits and provisions 116 Borrowings 157 Trade and other payables 68 Income taxes payable 9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 460 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 1,155 The analysis of total assets and liabilities directly associated with the disposal groups are shown below: $ million 2009 Assets classified as held for sale: MKM 308 Kazakhmys Power 1,307 1,615 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale: MKM 225 Kazakhmys Power 235 460 Net cash flows from discontinued operations included within the consolidated cash flow statement are shown below: $ million 2009 2008 Operating activities 8 63 Investing activities 65 1,017 Financing activities 89 987 Net cash inflow 16 33 a MKM The Directors have decided to dispose of MKM given the Groups strategy is to focus on natural resource opportunities in the Central Asian region.
This business has therefore been classified as a disposal group with the assets and related liabilities being shown as held for sale at the balance sheet date, and correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement.
The Directors consider that MKM meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date for the following reasons: the Directors are committed to selling the MKM business and an active programme to sell the business was initiated in the second half of 2009: MKM is available for immediate sale and can be sold to a potential buyer in its current condition: expressions of interest have been received from prospective buyers with a view to making an offer for the business and certain of them have undertaken due diligence on MKM: and the Directors expect to sell MKM during 2010.
106 106 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS CONTINUED i Results of discontinued operation The results of MKM for the year are presented below: $ million 2009 2008 Revenues 1,038 1,719 Cost of sales 935 1,683 Operating costs 47 60 Impairment losses 32 17 Net finance costs 7 17 Impairment loss recognised on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell 158 Loss before tax from discontinued operation 141 58 Income taxes related to current year loss before taxation 11 17 Loss for the year from discontinued operation 130 41 The re-measurement to fair value resulted in a loss of $141 million before tax.
In a light of the continuing economic weakness in Europe, MKMs core marketplace, a pre-tax impairment loss of $29 million has been recognised to write down the carrying value of MKM to its recoverable amount on a value in use basis.
A further impairment charge of $158 million has been recognised to write down MKM to its expected fair value less costs to sell.
ii Balance sheet The major classes of assets and liabilities of MKM classified as held for sale as at 31 December are as follows: $ million 2009 Assets Inventories 187 Trade and other receivables 121 Assets classified as held for sale 308 Liabilities Deferred tax liability 5 Employee benefits and provisions 7 Borrowings 157 Trade and other payables 47 Income taxes payable 9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 225 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 83 Borrowings comprise a 170 million revolving trade finance facility with a syndicate of banks for a three year loan with a final maturity in June 2012.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance at a rate of EURIBOR 3.00%.
The loan is secured over the inventories and receivables of MKM.
The amount of inventories held as security for MKM borrowings is $187 million 2008: $132 million.
The amount of trade receivables held as security for MKM borrowings is $121 million 2008: $97 million.
iii Cash flows The net cash flows incurred by MKM are as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Operating activities 28 29 Investing activities 6 9 Financing activities 34 32 Net cash inflow 6 b Kazakhmys Power i Results of discontinued operations The Kazakhmys Power Division comprises two distinct businesses: the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant and the Maikuben West coal mine.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant Following the announcement on 10 December 2009 that the Group had agreed to dispose of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, a 100% owned subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division, to Samruk for a consideration of $681 million, the Directors have classified Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP as an asset held for sale at the balance sheet date, and correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement.
com 107 Maikuben West coal mine Additionally the Directors have decided to dispose of the Maikuben West coal mine following a change in the long-term strategy of the coal mine as a result of the sale of 50% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station to Samruk.
The Directors considered that the Maikuben West coal mine meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date for the following reasons: the Directors are committed to selling the Maikuben West coal mine and an active programme to sell the business was initiated in December 2009: it is available for immediate sale and can be sold to a potential buyer in its current condition: and the Directors have received expressions of interest from a potential buyer and expect to sell the mine during 2010.
The results of Kazakhmys Power for the year are presented below: $ million 2009 2008 Revenues 238 156 Cost of sales 115 94 Operating costs 53 55 Impairment losses 69 2 Net finance costs 80 5 Loss before tax from discontinued operation 79 Income taxes: Related to current year loss before taxation 12 131 Related to measurement to fair value less costs to sell deferred tax 7 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operation 84 131 In light of the Directors decision to dispose 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP to Samruk, a pre-tax impairment loss of $69 million has been recognised to write down the carrying value of Maikuben West coal mine to its recoverable amount on a value in use basis.
No impairment losses have been recognised in relation to Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP.
Following completion of the sale of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP in February 2010, a profit on disposal will be recognised in the Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Even though the disposal was announced during 2009, and the cash proceeds of $681 million were received by the Group in December 2009, since the disposal was conditional upon receiving shareholder approval and regulatory clearances, which were obtained in February 2010, the profit on disposal can only be recognised when all approvals are obtained and legal completion takes place in the 2010 financial year.
ii Balance sheet The major classes of assets and liabilities of Kazakhmys Power classified as held for sale as at 31 December are as follows: $ million 2009 Assets Intangible assets 444 Property, plant and equipment 801 Inventories 9 Prepayments and other current assets 3 Trade and other receivables 8 Cash and cash equivalents 42 Assets classified as held for sale 1,307 Liabilities Deferred tax liability 105 Provisions 109 Trade and other payables 21 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 235 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 1,072 iii Cash flows The net cash flows incurred by Kazakhmys Power are as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Operating activities 20 34 Investing activities 59 1,026 Financing activities 55 1,019 Net cash inflow 16 27 108 108 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION For management purposes the Group is organised into five separately managed business units, as shown below, according to the nature of the products and services provided.
Each of these business units represents an operating segment in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
The operating segments are: Kazakhmys Copper The Kazakhmys Copper business is managed as one operating segment and comprises a Kazakhstan based company, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, and a UK based company, Kazakhmys Sales Ltd.
The principal activity of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC is the processing and sale of copper and other metals, while Kazakhmys Sales Ltd consists of a trading function responsible for the purchase of exported products from Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and subsequently applies an appropriate mark-up prior to onward sale to third parties.
The products produced by the Kazakhmys Copper business are subject to the same risks and returns, exhibit similar long-term financial performance and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The business processes substantially all the copper ore it produces and utilises most of the copper concentrate it processes.
The segment also has a number of activities that exist solely to support the mining operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation.
These other activities generate less than 10% of total revenues both external and internal and the related assets are less than 10% of total assets of the operating segment.
The UK trading function is a sales function on behalf of the Kazakhmys Copper business and consequently the assets and liabilities related to those trading operations, i. e. trade payables and trade receivables, are included within the Kazakhmys Copper operating segment.
MKM MKM operates in Germany, where it manufactures copper and copper alloy semi-finished products.
MKM faces different risks to the Groups other businesses, and produces different products, and is therefore shown as a separate operating segment.
As stated in note 5 a, the Directors have decided to dispose of MKM.
As a result, at 31 December 2009, MKM has been classified as a disposal group held for sale and as a discontinued operation, and the comparative segment information has been restated accordingly.
Kazakhmys Power Kazakhmys Power operates in Kazakhstan.
The principal activity of the Kazakhmys Power operating segment, representing the Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-fired power station and the Maikuben West coal mine, is the sale of electricity and coal to external customers.
This segment does not include the power stations and coal mines which are part of the Kazakhmys Copper segment as the output from those power stations and coal mines are primarily used within the Kazakhmys Copper business, and the level of external sales is comparatively insignificant.
As stated in note 5 a, following the announcement on 10 December 2009 that the Group had agreed to dispose of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, a 100% owned subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division, to Samruk for a consideration of $681 million, the Directors have classified Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP as an asset held for sale at the balance sheet date, and correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement.
Furthermore, the Maikuben West coal mine has also been classified as an asset held for sale and a discontinued operation.
The comparative segment information has been restated accordingly.
Kazakhmys Gold The principal activities of the Kazakhmys Gold operating segment is the mining and processing of gold ore into refined ore and exploration and development activity in the precious metal sector within the Central Asian region.
The Kazakhmys Gold business operates primarily in Kazakhstan and has a development project in Kyrgyzstan.
Kazakhmys Petroleum The Kazakhmys Petroleum business holds a licence to conduct oil and gas exploration and development activity in the Eastern Akzhar Exploration Block in western Kazakhstan.
The key performance measure of the operating segments is EBITDA excluding special items.
Special items are those items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business.
The Groups Treasury department monitors finance income and finance costs at the Group level on a net basis rather than on a gross basis at an operating segment level.
The accounting policies adopted by each operating segment are consistent with those published in note 3.
There are no inter-segment sales within the Group.
Segmental information is also provided in respect of revenues, by destination and by-product.
Segmental information relating to employees is provided in note 9.
com 109 a Business segments i Income statement information Year ended 31 December 2009 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Sales to external customers 2,357 1,038 238 47 3,680 1,276 2,404 Gross profit 1,241 103 123 19 1,486 226 1,260 Operating costs 540 47 53 7 1 37 685 100 585 Impairment losses 102 190 69 24 385 259 126 Segmental operating results 599 134 1 12 1 37 416 133 549 3 Share of profits from associate 223 223 Profit loss before finance items and taxation 639 133 772 Net finance income costs 169 87 256 Income tax expense 255 6 261 Profit loss for the year 553 214 767 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
2 Kazakhmys Power has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 b.
3 Share of profits from associate is net of tax.
Year ended 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Sales to external customers 3,227 1,719 156 49 5,151 1,875 3,276 Gross profit 1,639 36 62 17 1,754 98 1,656 Operating costs 304 60 55 7 1 31 458 115 343 Impairment losses 221 17 2 158 2 400 19 381 Segmental operating results 1,114 41 5 148 3 31 896 36 932 3 Share of profits from associate 255 255 Profit loss before finance items and taxation 1,151 36 1,187 Net finance costs 65 22 43 Income tax expense recovery 176 148 324 Profit for the year 910 90 820 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
110 110 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED ii Balance sheet information At 31 December 2009 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Assets 3 Tangible and intangible assets 1,894 1,245 93 527 18 3,777 1,245 2,532 Non-current investments 6 1 7 7 Intra Group investments 6,442 6,442 6,442 4 Operating assets 770 308 122 26 3 81 1,310 328 982 Current investments 58 58 58 Cash and cash equivalents 159 42 10 12 722 945 42 903 Assets classified as held for sale 1,615 1,615 Segment assets 2,887 308 1,409 130 542 7,263 12,539 12,539 Income taxes reclaimable 4 4 Investment in associate 3,869 3,869 Elimination 6,449 6,449 Total assets 9,963 9,963 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 135 7 109 2 25 278 116 162 5 Operating liabilities 227 47 21 4 3 710 1,012 68 944 Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale 460 460 Segment liabilities 362 54 130 6 28 710 1,290 276 1,566 Deferred tax liability 209 110 99 Borrowings 1,807 157 1,650 Income taxes payable 69 9 60 Elimination 7 7 Total liabilities 3,368 3,368 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
3 Tangible and intangible assets are located in the principal country of operations of each operating segment, i. e. i Kazakhstan Kazakhmys Copper, Kazakhmys Power and Kazakhmys Petroleum: ii Germany MKM: and iii Kazakhmys Gold is split between $18 million in Kazakhstan, $68 million in Kyrgyzstan and $7 million in Tajikistan.
4 Operating assets include inventories, prepayments and other current assets and trade and other receivables.
5 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables, derivative financial instruments and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
com 111 At 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Assets 1 Tangible and intangible assets 2,277 150 1,605 137 520 12 4,701 Non-current investments 4 1 5 Intra Group investments 6,249 6,249 2 Operating assets 888 233 27 22 1 36 1,207 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 330 26 14 5 165 540 Segment assets 3,531 384 1,658 173 526 6,462 12,734 Income taxes reclaimable 126 Investment in associate 4,045 Elimination 6,251 Total assets 10,654 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 122 7 188 2 26 345 3 Operating liabilities 240 28 24 2 3 15 312 Segment liabilities 362 35 212 4 29 15 657 Deferred tax liability 266 Borrowings 2,200 Income taxes payable 36 Elimination 2 Total liabilities 3,157 1 Tangible and intangible assets are located in the principal country of operations of each operating segment, i. e. i Kazakhstan Kazakhmys Copper, Kazakhmys Power and Kazakhmys Petroleum: ii Germany MKM: and iii Kazakhmys Gold is split between $33 million in Kazakhstan, $81 million in Kyrgyzstan and $23 million in Tajikistan.
2 Operating assets include inventories, prepayments and other current assets and trade and other receivables.
3 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
1 iii Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA excluding special items Year ended 31 December 2009 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 2 3 2,3 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Operating profit loss 599 134 1 12 1 37 416 133 549 Special items: Add: impairment of goodwill 16 16 16 Add: impairment of other intangible assets 2 2 2 Add: impairment of property, plant and equipment 50 133 17 200 150 50 Add: impairment of mining assets 36 23 59 36 23 Add: impairment of inventories 14 52 66 52 14 Add: loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 1 Profit loss before finance items and taxation excluding special items 664 53 70 11 1 37 760 123 637 Add: depreciation and depletion 200 23 50 10 2 285 73 212 Add: amortisation 2 2 2 4 Add: mineral extraction tax 161 3 164 164 Segment EBITDA excluding special items 1,027 76 120 24 1 35 1,211 196 1,015 5 Share of EBITDA of associate 423 423 423 Group EBITDA excluding special items 1,027 76 120 24 1 388 1,634 196 1,438 1 EBITDA excluding special items is defined as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, depletion, amortisation and mineral extraction tax, as adjusted for special items.
2 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
3 Kazakhmys Power has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 b.
4 The mineral extraction tax has been excluded from the key financial indicator of EBITDA excluding special items to improve the comparability of the operational profitability of the Group between periods.
5 The share of EBITDA of the associate excludes the mineral extraction tax of the associate.
112 112 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Year ended 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Operating profit loss 1,114 41 5 148 3 31 896 36 932 Special items: Add: impairment of goodwill 46 46 46 Add: impairment of property, plant and equipment 118 2 120 120 Add: impairment of mining assets 14 112 126 126 Add: provisions against inventory 73 15 88 15 73 Add: loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 2 1 1 Profit loss before finance items and taxation excluding special items 1,320 26 6 10 1 31 1,278 20 1,298 Add: depreciation and depletion 274 25 36 9 2 346 61 285 Add: amortisation 3 3 3 Segment EBITDA excluding special items 1,597 1 42 19 1 29 1,627 41 1,586 Share of EBITDA of associate 429 429 429 Group EBITDA excluding special items 1,597 1 42 19 1 400 2,056 41 2,015 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
2 Kazakhmys Power has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 b. iv Net liquid funds debt At 31 December 2009 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Cash and cash equivalents 159 42 10 12 722 945 42 903 Current investments 58 58 58 3 Borrowings 24 157 34 1 4,321 4,537 157 4,380 4 Inter-segment borrowings 24 34 1 2,671 2,730 2,730 Net liquid funds debt 217 157 42 10 12 928 804 115 689 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
3 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated are presented net of capitalised arrangement fees of $12 million.
4 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated include amounts borrowed from the Kazakhmys Copper segment and amounts lent to the Kazakhmys Power and Kazakhmys Gold segments.
At 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Cash and cash equivalents 330 26 14 5 165 540 Current investments 32 32 1 Borrowings 11 121 171 4 3,687 3,994 2 Inter-segment borrowings 11 171 4 1,608 1,794 Net liquid funds debt 362 121 26 14 5 1,914 1,628 1 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated are presented net of capitalised arrangement fees of $21 million.
2 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated include amounts borrowed from the Kazakhmys Copper segment and amounts lent to the Kazakhmys Power and Kazakhmys Gold segments.
com 113 v Capital expenditure, depreciation and impairment losses Year ended 31 December 2009 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Property, plant and equipment 212 7 61 10 34 5 329 68 261 Mining assets 91 5 96 96 Intangible assets 7 2 3 12 2 10 3 Capital expenditure 310 9 61 15 34 8 437 70 367 Depreciation and depletion 200 23 50 10 2 285 73 212 Amortisation 2 2 2 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 202 23 50 10 2 287 73 214 Impairment losses 102 190 69 24 385 259 126 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
3 Capital expenditure within the Kazakhmys Copper segment includes capitalised depreciation of $2 million and $1 million for property, plant and equipment and mining assets, respectively.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets within the Kazakhmys Copper segment includes $6 million capitalised in respect of contractual reimbursements to the Government for geological information and social commitments.
Year ended 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Discontinued Continuing 1 2 1,2 $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total operations operations Property, plant and equipment 559 10 38 8 42 657 48 609 Mining assets 24 5 29 29 Intangible assets 9 1 1 4 15 2 13 3 Capital expenditure 592 11 39 13 42 4 701 50 651 Depreciation and depletion 274 25 36 9 2 346 61 285 Amortisation 3 3 3 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 277 25 36 9 2 349 61 288 Impairment losses 221 17 2 158 2 400 19 381 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
3 Capital expenditure within the Kazakhmys Copper segment includes capitalised depreciation of $3 million and $1 million for property, plant and equipment and mining assets, respectively.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets within the Kazakhmys Copper segment includes $3 million capitalised in respect of contractual reimbursements to the Government for geological information and social commitments.
114 114 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED b Segmental information in respect of revenues Revenues by product are as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Kazakhmys Copper Copper cathodes 1,563 2,272 Copper concentrate 107 19 Copper rods 41 314 Total copper products 1,711 2,605 Silver 251 251 Gold bullion 127 109 Zinc metal 19 88 Zinc metal in concentrate 127 61 Other by-products 52 51 Other revenue 70 62 2,357 3,227 Kazakhmys Gold Gold dor 47 49 47 49 Continuing operations 2,404 3,276 MKM Wire 438 783 Sheets and strips 366 571 Tubes and bars 208 337 Metal trade 26 28 1,038 1,719 Kazakhmys Power Electricity generation 209 123 Coal 29 33 238 156 Discontinued operations 1,276 1,875 Total revenues 3,680 5,151 Revenues by destination to third parties are as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Continuing operations Europe 1,138 1,971 China 1,005 1,006 Kazakhstan 254 217 Other 7 82 2,404 3,276 Discontinued operations Europe 865 1,430 China 14 32 Kazakhstan 202 128 Other 195 285 1,276 1,875 Total revenues 3,680 5,151 Year ended 31 December 2009 Three customers collectively under common control, within the Kazakhmys Copper segment represent 26% of total Group revenue for the year from continuing operations.
The total revenue from these customers is $616 million.
The revenue from one of these customers individually represents 14% of total Group revenue from continuing operations.
Year ended 31 December 2008 Four customers, three of which are collectively under common control, within the Kazakhmys Copper segment represent 43% of total Group revenue for the year from continuing operations.
The total revenue from these customers is $1,394 million.
The revenue from two of these customers individually represents 16% and 12% of total Group revenue from continuing operations.
COST OF SALES, SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES, ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND OPERATING INCOME EXPENSES The following tables analyse the major components of cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses, administrative expenses and operating income expenses: a Cost of sales $ million 2009 2008 Raw materials 331 739 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 253 330 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 186 255 Production overheads 164 242 Mineral extraction tax 164 Other taxes 41 31 Utilities 33 34 Change in work in progress and finished goods 28 11 Continuing operations 1,144 1,620 Discontinued operations 1,050 1,777 2,194 3,397 b Selling and distribution expenses $ million 2009 2008 Transportation expenses 29 41 Port charges 15 25 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 3 3 Raw materials 1 2 Other 4 9 Continuing operations 52 80 Discontinued operations 54 72 106 152 c Administrative expenses $ million 2009 2008 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 130 137 Legal and professional 36 29 Personal injury claims 33 19 Transportation 33 9 Social responsibility costs 31 70 Levies and charges 27 25 Depreciation and amortisation 26 24 Utilities 21 18 Medical and social support 19 22 Business travel 13 14 Supplies 7 15 Communication 6 6 Social contributions 2 3 Bank fees 1 1 Other 17 15 Continuing operations 402 407 Discontinued operations 54 55 456 462 116 116 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
COST OF SALES, SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES, ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND OPERATING INCOME EXPENSES CONTINUED d Other operating income $ million 2009 2008 Supplies 6 14 Sanatorium, medical and canteen 6 11 Lease income 6 6 Utilities 3 4 Railway services 2 Gain on forward copper hedging contracts 143 Gain on disposal of securities 5 Other 5 9 Continuing operations 28 192 Discontinued operations 9 13 37 205 e Other operating expenses $ million 2009 2008 Loss on forward copper hedging contracts 129 Supplies 8 15 Sanatorium, medical and canteen 6 12 Utilities 4 4 Railway services 3 1 Depreciation of leased assets 2 2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Other 6 13 Continuing operations 159 48 Discontinued operations 1 1 160 49 8.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES $ million 2009 2008 Impairment of property, plant and equipment notes 8 a, 8 f and 8 h 50 120 Impairment of mining assets notes 8 b and 8 g 23 126 Provisions against inventories notes 8 c and 8 i 21 73 Provisions against trade and other receivables note 8 d 23 10 Provisions against prepayments and other current assets 9 4 Impairment of goodwill note 8 g 46 Impairment of other intangible assets 2 Continuing operations 126 381 Discontinued operations note 8 e 259 19 385 400 Year ended 31 December 2009 a Kazakhmys Copper property, plant and equipment An impairment charge of $50 million has been recognised in relation to property, plant and equipment within the Kazakhmys Copper Division primarily due to the curtailment of the Divisions capital expenditure programme in the last 18 months and a focus on selected projects only.
b Kazakhmys Gold An impairment charge of $23 million has been recognised in relation to the Kazakhmys Gold Division following a decision not to proceed with the Akjilga development project in Tajikistan in the foreseeable future as more economically attractive projects exist within the Group.
c Kazakhmys Copper inventories Provisions against inventories includes an amount of $14 million within the Kazakhmys Copper Division in respect of certain by-products held in stock at the end of the year which have been written down to the lower of cost and net realisable value reflecting a fall in the market value of these by-products.
The remaining balance included within provisions against inventories represents a general slow moving inventories provision.
d Kazakhmys Copper receivables Provisions against trade and other receivables include an amount of $23 million within the Kazakhmys Copper Division in respect of trust activities.
Under the terms of its subsoil licences, Kazakhmys LLC is required to provide certain social services to the communities in which its mining activities operate.
These trust activities are provided by municipal authority companies under trust management agreements.
For most receivable balances due from municipal authorities, full provision is recognised in light of their past payment histories.
e Discontinued operations Impairment losses within discontinued operations relate to the impairment of MKM $190 million and the Maikuben West coal mine $69 million see notes 5 a and 5 b respectively.
com 117 Year ended 31 December 2008 f Zinc smelter Included within impairment of property, plant and equipment is an impairment charge of $75 million relating to the Balkhash zinc smelter, which is included within the Kazakhmys Copper segment, and is part of this segments zinc cash generating unit.
An impairment charge has been recognised following managements decision to cease production at the zinc smelter in light of adverse changes in assumptions about future zinc prices and operating costs.
The carrying value of the zinc smelter as at 31 December 2008 was $75 million, and in light of managements decision to cease production, the entire carrying value has been impaired.
g Kazakhmys Gold Impairment of mining assets includes an amount of $112 million relating to the impairment of Kazakhmys Gold.
An impairment charge has been recognised following a general change in the long-term strategy of the division, with the outlook for existing mines and development projects being less attractive than originally anticipated at the time of the acquisition.
The value in use was assessed by reference to cash flow forecasts discounted at a pre-tax rate of 10%.
Furthermore, goodwill of $46 million recognised on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Gold as a result of the requirement to provide deferred tax on the acquisition fair value adjustments has also been written off during the year.
See note 16 a for details on the assumptions used in the Kazakhmys Gold impairment test.
h Kazakhmys Copper mining assets and property, plant and equipment An impairment charge has been recognised within the Kazakhmys Copper segment on the property, plant and equipment and mining assets associated with the closure of certain mines which are loss making in a period of sustained commodity price weakness and are unlikely, in managements best estimate, to reopen in the foreseeable future.
i Kazakhmys Copper and MKM inventories Impairment of inventories include an amount of $73 million and $15 million in respect of Kazakhmys Copper and MKM, respectively.
For Kazakhmys Copper, the impairment primarily relates to the impairment of stockpiled ore which is not going to be processed in the foreseeable future as its processing is uneconomic at current commodity price levels.
Within MKM, a provision has been recognised to record inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
This primarily relates to finished goods held in stock at the end of the year which have been written down reflecting the fall in copper price in December.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION $ million 2009 2008 Wages and salaries 437 522 Social security costs 49 38 Post-employment benefits 2 3 488 563 Employee costs are split between continuing operations and discontinued operations see note 5 as $415 million 2008: $490 million and $73 million 2008: $73 million, respectively.
Other non-monetary employee benefits including sanatorium visits, medical services, nourishment and treatment expenses are also provided by Kazakhmys LLC, and are included in the income statement in the expense line relating to the nature of the cost.
118 118 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION CONTINUED The average weekly number of employees during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 Kazakhmys Copper Mining 14,243 14,838 Concentration 5,678 5,378 Smelting 5,706 5,775 Transport 1,197 4,769 Maintenance and services 19,602 20,574 Construction 3,008 3,199 Administration, social sphere and other 7,845 8,122 57,279 62,655 1 MKM Production 689 677 Maintenance and services 213 219 Administration and other 159 156 1,061 1,052 2 Kazakhmys Power Production 524 597 Maintenance and services 1,083 983 Administration and other 338 386 1,945 1,966 Kazakhmys Gold Production 910 1,122 Administration and other 126 171 1,036 1,293 Kazakhmys Petroleum Production 77 40 Administration and other 14 21 91 61 Head office Corporate Development Centre 78 26 Administration and other 139 96 217 122 Total employees 61,629 67,149 1 MKM is included within discontinued operations see 5 a.
2 Kazakhmys Power is included within discontinued operations see 5 b. Analysed as: 2009 2008 1 Central Asia 60,524 66,049 Germany 1,061 1,052 UK 37 40 2 2 Netherlands China 5 6 61,629 67,149 1 Includes Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
The average weekly number of employees during the year within continuing operations is 58,623 2008: 64,131 and 3,006 2008: 3,018 within discontinued operations.
KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL In accordance with IAS 24 Related party disclosures, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
Key management personnel of the Group are deemed to be the Directors of the Company, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys LLC.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors comprises salaries, annual bonuses, share awards and benefits-in-kind amounted to $9 million during the year 2008: $8 million, all of which relates to short-term employee benefits.
Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report and form part of these consolidated financial statements.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the year ended 31 December 2009 was $3.0 million 2008: $5.0 million, made up as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Ernst & Young LLP Audit 2.4 2.9 Assurance-related services 0.6 0.4 Transaction advisory services 1.7 Total remuneration 3.0 5.0 Group For the year ended 31 December 2009, Ernst & Young LLP and its associates rendered assurance related services relating to the review of the half year report amounting to $0.4 million 2008: $0.4 million and assurance services within Kazakhmys Power of $0.2 million 2008: $nil relating to the audit of the IFRS standalone financial statements of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP and its associates also provided transaction advisory services of $nil 2008: $1.7 million.
The audit of the consolidated financial statements amounted to $0.8 million 2008: $1.1 million.
Fees payable for the audit of subsidiaries amounted to $1.6 million 2008: $1.8 million.
Auditors remuneration in respect of continuing and discontinued operations was $2.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively 2008: $4.4 million and $0.6 million.
Company The auditors remuneration attributable to the Company was $1.1 million 2008: $3.2 million, which related to $0.9 million for audit services 2008: $1.2 million, $0.2 million for assurance related services 2008: $0.3 million and $nil for transaction advisory services 2008: $1.7 million.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS $ million 2009 2008 Finance income Interest income 8 21 Foreign exchange gains 471 92 Continuing operations 479 113 Interest income 1 2 Foreign exchange gains 17 22 Discontinued operations 18 24 497 137 Finance costs Interest expense 51 49 Interest on employee obligations 3 4 Unwinding of discount on provisions 6 5 Finance costs before foreign exchange losses 60 58 Foreign exchange losses 163 98 Continuing operations 223 156 Interest expense 10 17 Unwinding of discount on provisions 26 Foreign exchange losses 69 29 Discontinued operations 105 46 328 202 Of the foreign exchange gain within continuing operations of $471 million, $336 million arises as a result of the devaluation of the tenge in February 2009 see note 3 a.
A foreign exchange loss of $53 million is included within discontinued operations in relation to the devaluation impact on Kazakhmys Power.
120 120 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INCOME TAXES a Income statement Major components of income tax expense for the years presented are: $ million 2009 2008 Current income tax Corporate income tax current period UK 5 Corporate income tax current period overseas 270 430 Corporate income tax prior periods 1 9 Excess profits tax current period 27 271 453 Deferred income tax Corporate income tax current period 10 136 Corporate income tax prior periods 6 Excess profits tax current period 1 261 129 Income tax expense attributable to continuing operations 310 324 Current income tax attributable to discontinued operations 8 16 Deferred income tax attributable to discontinued operations 14 164 6 148 Total income tax expense 255 176 A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to the accounting profit before tax at the statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate is as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 1,028 1,144 1 At statutory income tax rate of 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 288 326 Tax effect of share of profits from associate 62 73 Overprovided in previous years deferred income tax 6 Over underprovided in previous years current income tax 1 9 Unrecognised tax losses 24 Effect of domestic tax rates applicable to individual Group entities 67 17 Effect of changes in future tax rates 6 20 Unremitted overseas earnings 18 11 Non-deductible expenses non-taxable income : Non-taxable income on zinc plant 7 Transfer pricing 28 Non-deductible expenses 49 21 Excess profits tax 28 Income tax expense attributable to continuing operations 261 324 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 6 148 Total income tax expense 255 176 1 The UK statutory income tax rate for January to March 2008 was 30% and for April to December 2008 was 28%, giving a weighted average full year rate of 28.5% for 2008.
Corporate income tax is calculated at 28.0% 2008: 28.5% of the assessable profit for the year for the Company and its UK subsidiaries and 20.0% for the operating subsidiaries in Kazakhstan 2008: 30.0%.
MKM, which is included as part of discontinued operations, has a tax rate of 28.5% 2008: 28.5% and relates to German corporate income tax and trade tax.
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for 2009 is 25.4% 2008: 28.3%.
New tax legislation The Government of Kazakhstan introduced a new Tax Code which came into force on 1 January 2009.
Included within the new tax legislation was a phased reduction in corporate income tax CIT rates from 30% in 2008 to 15% in 2011, together with the introduction of the mineral extraction tax.
Excess profits tax The new tax legislation removed the tax stabilisation of subsoil use contracts and changed the excess profits tax EPT methodology.
Based on 2009 production and material flows within the Kazakhmys Copper and Kazakhmys Gold Divisions, there is no EPT charge for the year, compared to a charge of $28 million in 2008.
Prior to 1 January 2009, excess profits tax EPT was levied on certain profitable subsoil contracts where the cumulative internal rate of return for the current year exceeded 20% in a given period.
com 121 Year ended 31 December 2009 The effective tax rate is higher than the statutory rate due to the following reasons: Transfer pricing Included within the tax charge is $28 million in respect of transfer pricing for 2009.
New transfer pricing legislation came into force on 1 January 2009 as part of the introduction of the new Tax Code.
This new legislation removed the 10% safe harbour provision which was permitted under the previous transfer pricing legislation and has been replaced by the concept of the arms length principle.
However, this new legislation does not fully reflect the arms length concept which forms the underlying basis of transfer pricing legislation within many OECD countries.
Kazakhmys LLC has recognised a transfer pricing provision of $28 million at 31 December 2009 based on managements interpretation of the new transfer pricing legislation and the prevailing status of discussions with the Kazakhstan tax authorities.
Non-deductible expenses Included within non-deductible expenses is an amount of $26 million in respect of the copper hedging programme within Kazakhmys LLC.
A tax deduction is not available for the $129 million hedging loss due to the tax treatment of these losses under Kazakhstan tax legislation.
Unremitted overseas earnings Withholding taxes of $18 million have been recognised in 2009 in relation to the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries as at 31 December 2009, which are expected to be remitted to the UK in the future through dividend distributions from Kazakhstan.
Equity accounting The Groups interest in the earnings of ENRC is included, net of tax, in the consolidated income statement below the Groups operating profit in arriving at profit before taxation, thereby reducing the Groups effective tax rate.
Year ended 31 December 2008 The income tax expense for the year includes a credit of $178 million in respect of deferred income tax due to the impairment of the Kazakhmys Gold business and the enactment of the new tax legislation within Kazakhstan.
This credit is split between continuing operations of $52 million and discontinued operations of $126 million, and is primarily made up of the following: Continuing operations On the acquisition of Kazakhmys Gold in July 2007, a deferred tax liability of $46 million was recognised arising from the requirement to provide deferred tax on the acquisition fair value adjustments, with a corresponding entry to goodwill.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition and a proportion of the mining assets of the Kazakhmys Gold business were impaired during the year and this resulted in a taxation credit in the income statement of $32 million.
Additionally, the non-acquisition related deferred tax liabilities within the Groups Kazakhstan businesses were recalculated taking into account the lower corporate income tax rates resulting from the new Kazakhstan tax legislation.
This calculation gave rise to a $20 million taxation credit in the income statement.
Discontinued operations On completion of the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power in May 2008, a deferred tax liability of $267 million was recognised arising from the requirement to provide deferred tax on the acquisition fair value adjustments, with a corresponding entry to goodwill.
The deferred tax liability was calculated based on a corporate income tax rate of 30%, the prevailing tax rate at the date of acquisition.
As a consequence of the new Kazakhstan tax legislation, the deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments was recalculated as $141 million resulting in a taxation credit in the income statement of $126 million.
Future tax rates Future tax charges are affected by the mix of profits and tax rates in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
With the enactment of further new tax legislation in Kazakhstan in November 2009, which is effective from 1 January 2010, the corporate income tax rate will be frozen at 20% for the years 2010-2012 rather than being reduced to 17.5% in 2010 and 15% in 2011, which were to have been the revised rates under the previous tax legislation, which was effective from 1 January 2009.
The lower corporate income tax rate in Kazakhstan will have the effect of significantly lowering the Groups overall future effective tax rate below the current UK statutory corporate income tax rate of 28%.
b Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities The amounts of deferred taxation assets liabilities provided in the financial statements are as follows: Recognised in the income statement As at Transfer to As at 1 January Continuing Discontinued liabilities held Net exchange 31 December $ million 2009 operations operations for sale translation 2009 Intangible assets 6 1 1 6 Property, plant and equipment 201 11 12 107 35 58 Mining assets 11 5 5 2 1 Inventories 12 4 3 6 2 9 Trade and other receivables 1 10 2 7 Provisions 16 6 2 3 3 18 Taxes payable 1 13 14 Tax losses 4 10 14 Unremitted overseas earnings 80 18 98 Deferred tax liability, net 266 10 14 110 33 99 122 122 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INCOME TAXES CONTINUED Recognised in the income statement As at As at 1 January 31 December Business Continuing Discontinued Net exchange $ million 2008 acquisition operations operations translation 2008 Intangible assets 24 1 18 1 6 Property, plant and equipment 180 266 108 136 1 201 Mining assets 35 14 30 7 12 Inventories 21 1 13 18 2 13 Trade and other receivables 10 13 2 1 Provisions 27 1 12 16 Taxes payable 2 1 1 Tax losses 6 2 4 Unremitted overseas earnings 69 11 80 284 279 130 164 3 266 Deferred excess profits tax 1 1 Deferred tax liability, net 283 279 129 164 3 266 The deferred tax assets shown in the tables above arise within Kazakhmys LLC and are offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same entity and in the same jurisdiction.
The 2009 deferred tax liability includes $110 million which is directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale.
c Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets not recognised in the accounts are as follows: 2009 2008 Deferred Deferred Temporary Temporary $ million difference tax asset difference tax asset Continuing operations: Kazakhstan tax losses Losses carried forward 25 5 32 10 Discontinued operations: Germany tax losses Corporate income tax 106 30 109 31 Trade tax 85 24 67 19 Total losses carried forward 191 54 176 50 Details of the Groups tax losses arising in the jurisdictions in which it operates are as follows: i Kazakhstan At 31 December 2009, Kazakhmys LLC has corporate income tax losses on certain mines that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits arising from those mines.
Under Kazakhstan tax legislation, tax losses from loss making mines may not be offset against the taxable profits of profitable mines.
Kazakhmys LLC expects that certain mines will be in a tax loss making position for the foreseeable future and will have no taxable profits against which the losses can be offset.
Therefore, no deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the tax losses associated with these mines.
Tax losses arising from mines that are expected to be profitable in the future have been recognised as deferred tax assets.
ii Germany MKM has at 31 December 2009 corporate income tax losses that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits, subject to restrictions set out under German tax legislation.
There is no time restriction over the utilisation of tax losses.
Due to the past history of tax losses, there is insufficient certainty that a taxable profit will arise against which the losses can be offset.
For these reasons, no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
d Unrecognised deferred tax liability The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of the distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The gross temporary differences in respect of the undistributed reserves of the Groups subsidiaries, as shown in their statutory accounts prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, are as follows: $ million 2009 2008 Undistributed reserves of subsidiaries 4,890 3,033 STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
EARNINGS PER SHARE a Basic and diluted EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each outstanding during the year.
Purchases of the Companys shares by the Employee Benefit Trust are dilutive ordinary shares.
b EPS based on Underlying Profit The Groups Underlying Profit is the profit for the year after adding back items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business and their resultant tax and minority interest effects, as shown in the table below.
EPS based on Underlying Profit is calculated by dividing Underlying Profit by the number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each outstanding during the year.
The Directors believe EPS based on Underlying Profit provides a more consistent measure for comparing the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The following shows the reconciliation of Underlying Profit from the reported profit and the share data used in the computations for EPS based on Underlying Profit: $ million 2009 2008 Net profit attributable to owners of the Company from continuing operations 768 819 Special items: Impairment of goodwill 46 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 50 120 Impairment of mining assets 23 126 Provisions against inventories 14 73 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Net foreign exchange gain arising on devaluation of the Kazakhstan tenge: Managed businesses 336 Associate 55 Tax effect of non-recurring items: Managed businesses 52 Associate 11 Change in deferred tax liabilities: Impairment of Kazakhmys Gold 6 32 Change in tax rates in Kazakhstan: Managed businesses note 13 a 6 20 Associate 4 Minority interest effect of non-recurring items 1 1 Underlying Profit from continuing operations 545 1,132 Net profit attributable to owners of the Company from discontinued operations 214 90 Special items: Impairment of goodwill 16 Impairment of other intangible assets 2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 150 Impairment of mining assets 36 Provisions against inventories 52 15 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Net foreign exchange loss arising on devaluation of the Kazakhstan tenge 53 Tax effect of non-recurring items 11 Change in deferred tax liabilities: Impairment of MKM and Maikuben West 34 Change in tax rates in Kazakhstan 7 126 Underlying Profit from discontinued operations 57 20 Total Underlying Profit 602 1,112 Number 2009 2008 Weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each for EPS based on Underlying Profit calculation 535,136,298 490,289,985 EPS based on Underlying Profit basic and diluted $ From continuing operations 1.02 2.31 From discontinued operations 0.11 0.04 1.13 2.27 124 124 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED a Dividends paid The dividends paid during the year ended 31 December 2008 are as follows: Per share Amount US cents $ million Year ended 31 December 2008 Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2007 27.4 125 Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2008 14.0 75 41.4 200 i Year ended 31 December 2009 No dividends were paid by the Company in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009. ii Year ended 31 December 2008 On 8 May 2008 the Company paid the final dividend of $125 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 to shareholders on the register as at 4 April 2008.
This final dividend was sourced by way of payment of an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 by Kazakhmys LLC.
On 31 October 2008, the Company paid an interim dividend of $75 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 to shareholders on the register as at 3 October 2008.
This interim dividend was largely sourced by way of payment of the final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 by Kazakhmys LLC.
b Dividends declared after the balance sheet date Per share Amount US cents $ million Proposed by the Directors on 3 March 2010 not recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2009 : Final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 9.0 48 In relation to the dividends proposed by the Directors on 3 March 2010, the UK pounds sterling per ordinary share amount is 5.8975 pence.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS $ million Goodwill Licences Other Total Cost At 1 January 2008 46 516 16 578 Business acquisition 568 1 569 Additions 7 8 15 Goodwill impairment 46 46 Net exchange adjustment 1 1 At 31 December 2008 568 523 24 1,115 Additions 6 6 12 Disposals 1 1 Goodwill impairment 16 16 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 443 3 2 448 Net exchange adjustment 109 28 3 140 At 31 December 2009 498 24 522 Amortisation At 1 January 2008 6 4 10 Amortisation charge 2 1 3 Impairment 2 2 At 31 December 2008 8 7 15 Amortisation charge 1 1 2 Disposals 1 1 Impairment 1 1 2 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 3 1 4 Net exchange adjustment 1 1 2 At 31 December 2009 6 6 12 Net book value At 31 December 2009 492 18 510 At 31 December 2008 568 515 17 1,100 During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group acquired licences totalling $6 million 2008: $7 million.
Of this $6 million of additions in 2009, $6 million 2008: $3 million was capitalised by the Group in respect of contractual reimbursements to the Government for geological information and social commitments.
This latter amount is a non-cash item and is recorded within provisions for payments of licences.
The amortisation charge for the year is allocated to production expenses $1 million 2008: $2 million and administrative expenses $1 million 2008: $1 million as appropriate.
com 125 Impairment testing Goodwill The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and when there are indicators of impairment.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated, is compared to its recoverable amount.
a Kazakhmys Gold Year ended 31 December 2009 All goodwill associated with Kazakhmys Gold was fully written off in 2008.
Year ended 31 December 2008 The $46 million of goodwill relating to Kazakhmys Gold arose as a consequence of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments, and was allocated to Kazakhmys Golds four cash generating units as follows: i Kazakhstan operating mines $6 million, ii Mizek sulphide development project Kazakhstan $14 million, iii Bozymchak development project Kyrgyzstan $20 million, and iv Akjilga development project Tajikistan $6 million.
During the year, the Group has undertaken an impairment review of the Kazakhmys Gold segment, and the goodwill of $46 million arising on the acquisition has been impaired in full in addition to mining assets of $112 million following a general change in the long-term strategy of the division, with the outlook for existing mines and development projects being less attractive than originally anticipated at the time of the acquisition see note 8 g. The recoverable amount has been determined based on a combination of value in use and fair value less costs to sell calculations and is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from existing operations and development projects.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date that mining and refining is expected to cease based on managements current expectations.
For current operations, the completion dates are based on recent assessments of the reserves and resources available and annual ore extraction rates, and are expected to cease by the end of 2011.
For the development projects, the commencement dates for mining between 2011 and 2014 reflect managements expectations of the life of mine given current financing constraints, the time required to complete technical studies and to develop infrastructure and facilities at the mines for production to commence.
Mining will cease at the development projects at dates between 2016 and 2027 depending on the project, and cash flows have been forecast to these dates.
The key assumptions used in the recoverable amount calculations are: recoverable amount of reserves and resources: commodity prices: discount rates: timing of capital expenditure: inflation: and exchange rates.
Economically recoverable reserves and resources are based on managements expectations based on the availability of reserves at mine sites, technical studies and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by in-house and third party specialists.
Long-term commodity prices are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Specific prices are determined from information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long-term market expectations.
The long-term gold and silver prices used in the impairment test, based on market consensus, were $750 oz and $11.50 oz, respectively.
A discount rate of 10% was used in the recoverable amount calculations, which represents the pre-tax rate that reflects the Groups current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating unit.
Management have estimated the timing of capital expenditure on the development projects based on the Groups current and future financing plans and the results of technical studies completed to date.
Long-term inflation rates for the countries that the operating mines and development projects are located in have been used in the calculations.
These are based on information available in the market and country specific research.
Long-term inflation rates used for Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in the impairment test were 4.9%, 5.9% and 9.7%, respectively.
In assessing the fair value less costs to sell, another key assumption is foreign exchange rates.
These are based on external market consensus forecasts, and specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the cash generating unit operates.
b Kazakhmys Power Year ended 31 December 2009 Prior to the Kazakhmys Power Division being classified as an asset held for sale, an impairment test was performed on the acquisition goodwill of Kazakhmys Power in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets using a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Goodwill of $459 million arose on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power after re-translation see note 4 and is allocated to the divisions two cash generating units as follows: i Ekibastuz power plant $443 million, and ii Maikuben West coal mine $16 million.
When determining the fair value less costs to sell for the Ekibastuz power plant, management have used the sales price agreed with Samruk.
Management have concluded that given that the Power Division is classified as an asset held for sale it was more appropriate to derive the fair value less cost to sell from the observable market price rather than a discounted cash flow calculation.
Based on the results of the impairment test, the amount by which the Ekibastuz power plants recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount is $243 million recoverable amount $1,362 million and carrying value $1,119 million, and therefore the goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Ekibastuz power plant is not impaired.
126 126 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED The goodwill relating to the acquisition of the Maikuben West coal mine has been written down to zero.
This impairment is a result of a change in the long-term strategy of the mine following the announcement of the sale of 50% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station to Samruk see note 5 b.
Year ended 31 December 2008 Management has performed an impairment test of the goodwill arising from the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power at the year end as required by IAS 36 using a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Goodwill of $568 million arose on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power and is allocated to the divisions two cash generating units as follows: i Ekibastuz power plant $548 million, and ii Maikuben West coal mine $20 million.
The key assumptions used in the impairment test are: electricity generation volumes: tariff prices: discount rates: timing of capital expenditure: and inflation and exchange rates.
Electricity generation volumes are based on managements expectations based on supply and demand dynamics within Kazakhstan and the timing of capital expenditure required to increase the capacity of the power station.
Tariff prices are based on managements expectations with reference to commentary given by the Government with regards to setting tariff prices in the future and increase from $0.020 kWh in 2008 to $0.030 kWh in 2012.
The Department of Energy has stated that they expect tariff prices to reach $0.035 kWh by 2010.
However, for the purposes of the impairment test, a more conservative approach has been adopted with tariff prices not expected to exceed this level until 2014.
Tariff prices are assumed to increase at the long-term inflation rate for all years after 2012.
The discount rate used in the recoverable amount calculations represents the pre-tax rate that reflects the Groups current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the two cash generating units.
The discount rates used in the impairment test for the Ekibastuz power plant and Maikuben West coal mine were 12.4% and 15.8%, respectively.
Management have estimated the timing of capital expenditure based on the Groups current and future financing plans and the results of technical studies completed at the time of acquisition.
Long-term inflation and exchange rates for Kazakhstan have been used in the calculations.
A long-term inflation rate of 4.9% for Kazakhstan has been used in the impairment test and the range of KZT $ exchange rates used in the impairment test was KZT150 $1 in 2009 to KZT135 $1 in 2013.
Based on the results of the impairment test, the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power is not impaired.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions If the values of the key assumptions were to move by the following amounts, then fair value less costs to sell would equal the carrying value of each cash generating unit.
All changes are assumed to happen in isolation: Ekibastuz power plant cash generating unit: if electricity sales volumes were to decrease by 3.2% for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the rate of growth in tariff prices was less than forecast such that tariff prices grew at a rate of 3.1% less than that assumed for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the discount rate increased from 12.4% to 13.5%, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount.
Maikuben West coal mine cash generating unit: if coal sales volumes were to decrease by 1.3% for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the rate of growth in coal prices was less than forecast such that coal prices grew at a rate of 1.2% less than that assumed for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the discount rate increased from 15.8% to 16.3%, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount.
The amounts by which the units recoverable amount exceeds their carrying amount is $146 million for the Ekibastuz power plant and $4 million for the Maikuben West coal mine.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and Plant and Construction $ million buildings equipment Other in progress Total Cost At 1 January 2008 991 1,470 263 624 3,348 Business acquisition 642 323 1 23 989 Additions 40 224 96 294 654 Capitalised depreciation 3 3 Transfers 274 126 6 406 Reclassifications 1 3 2 Disposals 9 31 4 12 56 Net exchange adjustment 8 14 3 3 28 At 31 December 2008 1,929 2,101 357 523 4,910 Additions 8 174 23 122 327 Capitalised depreciation 2 2 Transfers 156 69 225 Disposals 5 11 3 9 28 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 625 454 13 46 1,138 Net exchange adjustment 384 358 65 63 870 At 31 December 2009 1,079 1,521 299 304 3,203 Depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 347 762 100 10 1,219 Depreciation charge 68 193 31 292 Reclassifications 1 1 Disposals 6 28 3 37 Impairment 82 26 12 120 Net exchange adjustment 3 6 1 10 At 31 December 2008 488 948 126 22 1,584 Depreciation charge 65 183 27 275 Disposals 2 9 2 13 Impairment 56 106 12 26 200 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 90 236 11 337 Net exchange adjustment 90 162 25 3 280 At 31 December 2009 427 830 127 45 1,429 Net book value At 31 December 2009 652 691 172 259 1,774 At 31 December 2008 1,441 1,153 231 501 3,326 a Deemed cost of assets within Kazakhmys LLC For the purpose of the transition to IFRS in 2002, the Directors commissioned an independent company which held a State licence to conduct valuations, to carry out an independent appraisal of property, plant and equipment as of 1 January 2002 to determine their deemed cost at that date.
The deemed cost of property, plant and equipment as of 1 January 2002 was determined primarily with reference to depreciated replacement cost.
The Directors believe that the deemed cost reflected the economic conditions of the Groups property, plant and equipment at that time.
b Cost of assets within acquired businesses The cost of property, plant and equipment acquired through business acquisitions since the IFRS transition date in 2002 is based on the results of IFRS fair value exercises undertaken at the time of acquisition.
c Impairment During 2009, property, plant and equipment of $200 million 2008: $120 million was impaired, of which $50 million relates to the Kazakhmys Copper segment, $133 million relates to MKM and $17 million relates to the Power segment see note 6 a iii.
d Fully depreciated assets At 31 December 2009, the cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment within Kazakhmys LLC was $380 million 2008: $333 million, within MKM was $22 million 2008: $8 million, and within other Group entities was $5 million 2008: $8 million.
e Capitalised borrowing costs No borrowing costs were capitalised by the Group during the year 2008: $nil as no significant qualifying assets commenced construction after 1 January 2008.
128 128 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED f MKM investment grants and subsidies Within MKM there were no significant investment grants and subsidies received from the German government during 2009 and 2008.
As at 31 December 2009, gross carrying value of property, plant and equipment previously subsidised by the German government amounted to $12 million 2008: $13 million.
g Allocation of depreciation between continuing and discontinued operations The depreciation charge for the year is allocated to continued operations $203 million 2008: $232 million and discontinued operations $72 million 2008: $60 million.
MINING ASSETS Mine Mine development stripping $ million costs costs Total Cost At 1 January 2008 360 58 418 Business acquisition 46 46 Additions 19 9 28 Capitalised depreciation 1 1 Disposals 3 45 48 Net exchange adjustment 3 1 4 At 31 December 2008 373 68 441 Additions 89 6 95 Capitalised depreciation 1 1 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 36 36 Net exchange adjustment 67 14 81 At 31 December 2009 396 24 420 Depletion and impairment At 1 January 2008 29 1 30 Depletion charge 14 44 58 Disposals 3 45 48 Impairment 115 11 126 At 31 December 2008 155 11 166 Depletion charge 12 1 13 Impairment 23 36 59 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 36 36 Net exchange adjustment 28 2 30 At 31 December 2009 162 10 172 Net book value At 31 December 2009 234 14 248 At 31 December 2008 218 57 275 During 2009, mining assets of $59 million 2008: $126 million were impaired, analysed between $23 million 2008: $112 million for the Kazakhmys Gold segment, $36 million 2008: $nil for the Kazakhmys Power segment and $nil 2008: $14 million for the Kazakhmys Copper segment see note 6 a iii.
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE In 2007, the Group acquired an 18.8% interest in ENRC at a price of $806 million.
At the time of the listing of ENRC on the main board of the London Stock Exchange in December 2007, new shares were issued by ENRC to which the Group did not subscribe and hence the Groups interest in ENRC reduced from 18.8% to 14.6% taking into account the full exercise of the over-allotment option.
On 24 July 2008, the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC, which it received on 28 July 2008.
The share price of the Company as at the date of the share issue was 13.17 per share, and the market value of the shares issued was $2,110 million.
In addition stamp duty of $10 million was incurred, taking the total cost of the transaction to $2,120 million.
Following completion of these transactions, the Groups share holding in ENRC increased to 22.2%.
Between 31 July and 8 August 2008, the Group purchased for a total cost of $800 million, a further 35,733,717 shares in ENRC thereby taking the Groups total holding in ENRC to 25.0% of the issued share capital.
Between 2 October and 27 October 2008, the Group purchased, for a total cost of $108 million, a further 12,647,009 shares in ENRC thereby taking the Groups total holding in ENRC to 334,824,860 or 26.0% of the issued share capital.
After the completion of these transactions, the total number of shares held by the Group in ENRC at 31 December 2008 and 2009 was 334,824,860.
com 129 $ million 2009 2008 Investment in associate At 1 January 4,045 Reclassified from available for sale investment 3,442 Additions 3,028 1,2 Share of profits from associate 223 255 2 Net share of losses of associate recognised in equity 315 6 Impairment recognised against unrealised gain on available for sale investment in equity 2,636 Dividends received 84 38 At 31 December 3,869 4,045 1 Share of profits from associate is net of tax.
2 Based on ENRCs published unaudited results.
At 31 December 2009, the Groups 26.0% in ENRC had a market value of $4,879 million 31 December 2008: $1,600 million which is determined by reference to the published price quotation on the London Stock Exchange.
In light of the positive movement in share prices seen during the 2009 financial year, particularly those of natural resource companies, and the upward trend in short and long-term commodity prices, the Directors do not believe that an impairment indicator has arisen with regards to the Groups investment in ENRC at 31 December 2009.
The accounting period end of ENRC is 31 December.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups investment in ENRC based on ENRCs published unaudited results: $ million 2009 2008 Share of associates assets and liabilities Total assets 2,500 2,604 Total liabilities 419 446 Net assets 2,081 2,158 Carrying amount of the investment 3,869 4,045 $ million 2009 2008 Share of associates revenue and profit Revenue 996 721 Operating profit 316 372 Profit before finance items and taxation 308 370 Net finance costs and share of loss of joint venture 17 16 Income tax expense and minority interests 102 99 Profit for the period 223 255 Year ended 31 December 2008 Following the piecemeal acquisition of ENRC, the Groups investment in associate has been impaired by $2,636 million.
This impairment charge has been recognised directly in equity against the unrealised gain on the available for sale investment, and there is no impact on the consolidated income statement.
The impairment arose due to the requirements of IFRS 3 Business combinations and IAS 28 Investments in associates which requires the cost of acquisition of each tranche to be compared to the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquiree.
With the exception of the acquisition of the final tranche of ENRC shares in October 2008, the acquisitions in July and August 2008 were undertaken at a time prior to the sharp decrease in commodity prices and share prices of listed natural resource companies, and the prevailing market value of ENRC at that time was considerably in excess of the recoverable amount.
The Groups cost of investment in the associate in excess of the fair value, arising from the piecemeal acquisition, has therefore been impaired and this has been recognised against the unrealised gain within equity from when the shareholding was classified as an available for sale investment arising prior to the time when the Group equity accounted for its investment in ENRC.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charge is value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 13%.
INVENTORIES $ million 2009 2008 Raw materials and consumables 222 318 Work in progress 247 312 Finished goods 123 194 Gross value of inventories 592 824 Inventories provision 92 90 500 734 The carrying amount of inventory that has been written down to net realisable value is $109 million 2008: $93 million.
The carrying amount of inventory recorded at fair value less costs to sell is $33 million 2008: $nil.
130 130 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS $ million 2009 2008 Advances paid for goods and services 144 82 Advanced payment of deferred consideration arising from business acquisition 102 VAT reclaimable 42 116 Amounts due from related parties 28 15 Other 24 34 Gross value of prepayments and other current assets 340 247 Provision for impairment of receivables 15 9 325 238 Provision for impairment as at 31 December 2009 includes a provision against the advance paid to Vertex LLP, a related party included within other see note 35, amounting to $8 million 2008: $nil.
The advanced payment of deferred consideration of $102 million is in respect of the cash collateralised standby letter of credit to AES Corporation following the early completion of the management contract with AES Corporation in March 2009.
The issuing bank behind the standby letter of credit paid this amount to AES Corporation in January 2010.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES $ million 2009 2008 Trade receivables 199 267 Amounts due from related parties 83 60 Amounts due from third parties 116 207 Interest receivable 3 2 Other receivables 8 Gross value of trade and other receivables 202 277 Provision for impairment of receivables 52 44 150 233 Included within trade receivables is an amount of $13 million 2008: $8 million within trade payables in respect of provisionally priced metal sales which are marked-to-market using forward prices in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition accounting policy.
Provision for impairment as at 31 December 2009 includes a provision on the receivables from JSC Water Heat Supply, a related party included within companies under trust management see note 35, amounting to $35 million 2008: $25 million.
CURRENT INVESTMENTS $ million 2009 2008 At 1 January 32 57 Additions 74 103 Disposals 43 128 Net exchange adjustment 5 At 31 December 2009 58 32 Current investments consist of bank deposits with initial terms of maturities of more than three months that are held within Kazakhstan and are invested with major Kazakhstan banks and local branches of international financial institutions.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS $ million 2009 2008 Cash deposits with maturities of less than three months 722 44 Cash at bank 180 496 Petty cash 1 Continuing operations 903 540 Discontinued operations 42 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 945 540 STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES a Allotted share capital Number million $ million Authorised At 31 December 2008 Ordinary shares of 20 pence each 750,000,000 150 Allotted and called up share capital At 1 January 2008 460,123,288 92 170 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 5,169,000 1 2 Shares issued 80,286,050 16 32 At 31 December 2008 and 2009 535,240,338 107 200 In January 2008 the Company completed a share buy-back programme and cancelled 5,169,000 ordinary shares at cost of $121 million including expenses.
In July 2008 the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC.
b Own shares At 31 December 2009, the Group, through an Employee Benefit Trust, owned 379,825 Kazakhmys PLC shares 2008: nil with a market value of $8 million and a cost of $7 million.
c Capital reserves Currency Capital Net unrealised translation redemption Hedging $ million Reserve fund gains reserve reserve reserve reserve Total At 1 January 2008 42 1,595 447 4 2,088 Unrealised gain on available for sale investment 1,041 1,041 Impairment of associate recognised against unrealised gain on available for sale investment in equity 2,636 2,636 Share of gains losses of associate recognised in equity 2 1 8 11 Gains on cash flow hedges taken to equity 142 142 Gains on cash flow hedges included in income statement 143 143 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 2 2 Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 36 36 At 31 December 2008 42 2 410 6 7 449 Share of gains losses of associate recognised in equity 2 317 5 310 Losses on cash flow hedges taken to equity 138 138 Losses on cash flow hedges included in income statement 138 138 1 Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 1,133 1,133 At 31 December 2009 42 1,040 6 2 994 1 Of the $1,133 million of foreign exchange differences recognised in the currency translation reserve for the year, $101 million relates to discontinued operations.
i Reserve fund In accordance with legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan the reserve fund comprises prescribed transfers from retained earnings amounting to 15% of Kazakhmys LLCs charter capital.
ii Net unrealised gains reserve The net unrealised gains reserve is used to record the fair value movements of available for sale investments.
iii Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the US dollar into the Groups presentation currency.
iv Capital redemption reserve As a result of the share buy-back programme, transfers are made from share capital to the capital redemption reserve based on the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
v Hedging reserve The hedging reserve is used to record the fair value movements of derivative financial instruments that have been designated as cash flow hedges.
132 132 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS Commencing from 2007, the Company established a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
The total expense for the year ended 31 December 2009 arising from these plans was $1 million 2008: $1 million.
Both plans are discretionary benefits offered by the Company for the benefits of its employees.
The main purpose is to increase the interest of the employees in Kazakhmys long-term business goals and performance through share ownership.
They represent incentives for employees future performance and commitment to be aligned to the goals of the Group.
The shares issued under these plans are dilutive ordinary shares as the Company purchased 379,825 shares at a cost of $7 million through an Employee Benefit Trust during the year.
For any future awards, the Company may issue new shares to the Employee Benefit Trust rather than purchase the shares in the open market.
a Long Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, shares are granted to senior management of the Company at nil cost.
The vesting of the shares is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group as compared to a group of listed comparator companies, as well as a requirement for the recipients of awards to remain in employment with the Company over the vesting period.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The first awards, granted on 3 December 2007, under the LTIP were made with either a two year vesting period or a three year vesting period.
Awards over 11,226 shares were granted with a two year vesting period and awards over 37,862 shares were granted with a three year vesting period.
The awards with a two year vesting period did not vest and lapsed during the year.
On 7 April 2008, awards over 66,202 shares were granted with a three year vesting period.
On 7 April 2009, awards over 262,987 shares were granted with a three year vesting period.
A further 74,240 shares were granted on 26 November 2009 with a three year vesting period.
Additional awards are due to be granted to senior management in April 2010 and these will be subject to the same vesting criteria as the awards granted on 7 April 2009.
The fair value of the shares was estimated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted.
This model simulates the TSR and compares it against the group of comparator companies.
It takes into account historic dividends and share price fluctuations to predict the distribution of relative share performance.
The following table shows the movements in the number of shares during the year: Number 2009 2008 Outstanding at 1 January 115,290 49,088 Granted on 7 April 2008 3 year vesting period 66,202 Granted on 7 April 2009 3 year vesting period 262,987 Granted on 26 November 2009 3 year vesting period 74,240 Lapsed on 3 December 2009 11,226 Outstanding at 31 December 441,291 115,290 Exercisable at 31 December The following table lists the inputs to the model: 2009 2009 2008 2007 Shares Shares granted Shares Shares granted with a 3 year granted granted with a 3 year vesting period with a 3 year with a 3 year vesting period November vesting period vesting period December 2009 April 2009 April 2008 2007 Number of awards 74,240 262,987 66,202 37,862 Fair value at grant date 8.11 3.23 11.43 7.704 Share price at grant date 12.13 4.22 16.97 13.45 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Expected volatility 77.9% 74.0% 44.5% 41.7% Expected weighted average life at 31 December 2009 2.9 years 2.3 years 1.3 years 0.9 years The award of shares are not affected by the risk free rate of interest since no investment is required by the recipient, and therefore no interest could be earned elsewhere.
On vesting of the award, the participants are entitled to cash equal to the value of dividends excluding the dividend tax credit that would have been paid on those shares between the grant date and the date of vesting.
Therefore, expected dividend yield does not affect the valuation of the awards and has been set at zero to achieve this effect.
Expected volatility is based on historic share price movements.
b Deferred Share Bonus Plan On 7 April 2009, awards over 63,740 shares were granted to employees based on an average share price at grant date of 4.22 with a two year vesting period.
Under the DSBP, the awards were based on the deferred amount of an employees 2008 bonus.
On 7 April 2008, awards over 11,403 shares were granted to employees based on an average share price at grant date of 15.95 with a two year vesting period.
Under the DSBP, the awards were based on the deferred amount of an employees 2007 bonus.
Additional shares under the DSBP are due to be granted to employees in April 2010 based on the deferred amount of an employees 2009 bonus.
The number of shares granted to employees will be based on the cash value of the deferred bonus and the average share price for a period of time prior to the grant date in April 2010.
The shares granted will vest after a period of two years after grant date.
At 31 December 2009, the cash value of the awards eligible for the DSBP, for which shares will be granted in April 2010, was $0.4 million.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for the respective plans: $ million 2009 2008 Kazakhstan post-retirement benefits 50 38 Germany part-time contracts 2 Recognised liability for employee benefit obligations 50 40 a Continuing operations Kazakhstan $ million 2009 2008 Net liability at 1 January 38 34 Employers share of current service cost 2 1 Employers share of past service cost 14 Net actuarial losses recognised in the period 1 1 Interest cost on benefit obligation 3 4 Benefits provided to employees 1 2 Net exchange adjustment 7 Net liability at 31 December 50 38 Kazakhmys LLC provides post-retirement benefits in Kazakhstan which are unfunded.
These benefits include one-time retirement grants, financial aid, dental care, medical benefits, long-term disability allowances, sanatorium visits, annual financial support to pensioners, free tickets for city buses, privilege tickets for shuttle buses and funeral aid.
The actuarial gain on prior period service costs which existed as at 31 December 2009 amounted to $3 million 2008: actuarial loss of $15 million.
A discount rate of 8.0% 2008: 7.5% has been used in calculating the employee benefit liabilities and associated charges, as measured in Kazakhstan tenge.
The Group continues to pay the non-monetary benefits described in note 9. b Discontinued operations Germany $ million 2009 2008 Net liability at 1 January 2 3 Benefits provided to employees 1 1 Transfer to liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale 1 Net liability at 31 December 2 In Germany, MKM has obligations arising from part-time contracts for older employees that have been collectively agreed with the employees trade union.
Non-current investments amounting to $1 million 2008: $1 million have been set aside to fund MKMs obligations relating to part-time contracts.
PROVISIONS Site restoration Payments for Deferred $ million and clean up  Other Total At 1 January 2008 44 68 112 Business acquisition 3 169 18 190 Arising during the year 3 3 6 Utilised 3 5 8 Unwinding of discount 1 3 1 5 At 31 December 2008 48 74 165 18 305 Arising during the year 6 7 13 Utilised 3 12 83 13 111 Unwinding of discount 3 5 20 4 32 Foreign exchange loss 19 19 Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 3 2 102 8 115 Net exchange adjustment 8 15 8 31 At 31 December 2009 37 75 112 Current 17 17 Non-current 37 58 95 At 31 December 2009 37 75 112 Current 6 83 18 107 Non-current 48 68 82 198 At 31 December 2008 48 74 165 18 305 134 134 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
PROVISIONS CONTINUED a Site restoration and clean up The costs of decommissioning and reclamation of mines within the Group are based on the amounts included in the Groups contracts for subsoil use.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated costs to decommission and reclaim the mines at the dates of depletion of each of the deposits.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a discount rate of 3% 2008: 3% per year.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of each mine which ranges from one to 40 years.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives, and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
b Payments for licences for mining assets In accordance with its contracts for subsoil uses the Group is liable to repay the costs of geological information provided by the Government of Kazakhstan for licensed deposits.
The total amount payable by the Group is discounted to its present value using a discount rate of 8% 2008: 8%.
The uncertainties include estimating the amount of the payments and their timing.
The amounts are payable prior to 2019. c Payments for licences for exploration assets In accordance with the terms of the exploration licence, Kazakhmys Petroleum LLP is liable to make payments to the Government for geological information and social commitments in Astana and the Aktobe region.
The present value of the obligations is estimated by applying a discount rate of 12% 2008: 12%.
d Deferred consideration Provision for deferred consideration was made for future payments arising from the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power in May 2008.
On a gross basis $80 million was payable to AES Corporation in April 2009 and $102 million was required to cash collaterise the standby letter of credit in December 2009.
No further amounts are payable in respect of this acquisition after December 2009. e Other Other provisions are recorded where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation and a future outflow of resources is considered probable.
Other provisions primarily relate to a provision for property taxes as at the date of acquisition of Kazakhmys Power in May 2008, settlement of which was made in July 2009 thereby extinguishing any further liability at 31 December 2009.
BORROWINGS Average interest rate during Currency of Current Non-current Total Maturity the year denomination $ million $ million $ million $ million 31 December 2009 1 Pre-export finance facility US$ LIBOR 1.25% 2013 2.08% US dollar 518 1,132 1,650 2 Revolving trade finance facility EURIBOR 3.00% 2012 3.29% Euro 157 157 31 December 2008 Pre-export finance facility US$ LIBOR 1.25% 2013 3.92% US dollar 429 1,650 2,079 Revolving trade finance facility EURIBOR 1.45% 2010 4.74% Euro 69 52 121 498 1,702 2,200 1 Relates to continuing operations.
2 Relates to discontinued operations see note 5 b. a Continuing operations Pre-export finance facility On 29 February 2008 Kazakhmys Finance PLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, signed a five year pre-export finance facility for $2,100 million with a syndicate of banks to be used for general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant and Maikuben West coal mine and incremental purchases of shares in ENRC.
As at 31 December 2008 and 2009, the facility was fully drawn.
The loan is secured on the value of copper sales contracts with certain designated customers.
Monthly loan repayments commenced in March 2009 and will continue through to February 2013 following a one year availability period.
Arrangement fees with an amortised cost as at 31 December 2009 of $12 million 2008: $21 million, gross cost before amortisation of $26 million 2008: $26 million, have been netted off against these borrowings in accordance with IAS 39.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance at a rate of US$ LIBOR 1.25%.
Kazakhmys PLC, Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Ltd act as guarantors of the loan.
The pre-export finance facility contains change of control clauses which are shown on page 81.
Revolving credit facility On 26 August 2008 Kazakhmys Finance PLC signed a $200 million revolving credit facility with a group of banks for general corporate purposes and to provide standby liquidity.
On 30 March 2009, $150 million of this facility was extended to 31 March 2010.
On 26 March 2010, the $150 million facility was extended for an additional year to March 2011.
At 31 December 2009, the facility was undrawn.
Undrawn facilities $ million 2009 2008 Revolving credit facility within Kazakhmys Finance PLC 150 200 Letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities within Kazakhmys LLC 60 79 210 279 STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 135 b Discontinued operations Revolving trade finance facility In May 2006 MKM entered into a revolving trade finance facility with a syndicate of banks for a four year loan to finance the repayment of external borrowings and intercompany balances due to Kazakhmys LLC, and to fund working capital.
In June 2009 the facility was refinanced with a new 170 million facility for three years with a final maturity in June 2012.
Undrawn facilities $ million 2009 2008 Revolving trade finance facility within MKM 86 23 30.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES $ million 2009 2008 Prepayment received for anticipated disposal of share in subsidiary 681 Trade payables 65 146 Salaries and related payables 53 56 Royalties and mineral extraction tax payable 44 2 Payments received in advance 39 8 Other taxes payable 24 51 Amounts payable to related parties 5 10 Other payables and accrued expenses 24 33 935 306 31.
RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES $ million 2009 2008 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 1,028 1,144 Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 220 58 Interest income 9 23 Interest expense 61 66 Depreciation and depletion 285 346 Amortisation 2 3 Share of profits from associate 223 255 Impairment losses 385 400 Unrealised foreign exchange loss 195 2 Gain on disposal of investments 5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 2 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital and provisions 1,115 1,622 Increase in inventories 133 4 Increase in prepayments and other current assets 42 21 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 89 91 Increase in employee benefits 19 3 Increase in provisions 27 7 Increase in trade and other payables 46 54 Cash flows from operations before interest, income taxes and dividends from associate 943 1,752 Non-cash transaction As stated in note 25 a, in July 2008 the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC.
This represents a non-cash transaction for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT LIQUID FUNDS Attributable At to Net At 1 January discontinued exchange 31 December 1 $ million 2009 Cash flow operations translation 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 540 464 42 59 903 Current investments 32 31 5 58 Borrowings 2,200 396 157 3 1,650 Net debt 1,628 891 115 67 689 1 Cash flow includes cash and cash equivalents acquired through business acquisitions.
136 136 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT LIQUID FUNDS CONTINUED At Net At 1 January Business exchange 31 December 1 $ million 2008 acquisition Cash flow translation 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 439 101 540 Current investments 57 25 32 Borrowings 198 159 1,854 11 2,200 Net liquid funds debt 298 159 1,778 11 1,628 1 Cash flow includes cash and cash equivalents acquired through business acquisitions.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The financial information disclosed in the tables relating to the year ended 31 December 2009 represents continuing operations only.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Groups Treasury department in close cooperation with the Groups business divisions under oversight of a Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the monitoring of financial risks, management of the Groups cash resources, debt funding programmes and capital structure, approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits, and oversight of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Treasury department operates as a service centre to the business divisions of the Group and not as a profit centre.
A Group Treasury Policy has been approved by the Board and is periodically updated to reflect developments in the financial markets and the financial exposures facing the Group.
The Treasury Policy covers specific areas of financial risk management, in particular, liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
The Groups Treasury Committee and the Groups Internal Audit department monitor compliance with the Treasury Policy on a regular basis.
The Groups Treasury department prepares monthly treasury reports for senior management which monitor all major financial exposures and treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
In addition, a treasury report is prepared for each Board meeting which includes a summary of the credit markets and their impact on the implementation of the Groups strategy, progress on the Groups financing initiatives and the significant financial exposures faced by the Group.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivatives used for risk management purposes.
The Groups borrowings, surplus liquidity and derivative financial instruments are controlled and managed centrally by the Groups Treasury department.
Liquidity retained within Kazakhstan is only held for working capital purposes.
The Groups accounting policies with regard to financial instruments are detailed in note 3. a Derivatives, financial instruments and risk management The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and exchange rates.
The Groups philosophy is generally not to hedge its core revenue streams.
In periods of significant market volatility or uncertainty, the Group may use derivative instruments as a means of reducing volatility and any negative impact on its operating cash flows.
Strict limits on the size and type of any derivative hedge transaction are laid down by the Board and subject to strict internal controls.
The Group does not hold any speculative financial instruments.
In 2008 and 2009, in light of significant market volatility and disruption in the financial sector, the Group entered into a number of interest rate swap contracts to convert debt carried at floating rates into debt which is carried at fixed interest rates in order to reduce the volatility of finance costs.
No such instruments have been entered into in respect of 2010 or future years.
During 2008, forward commodity contracts were used, in limited situations, to hedge against copper quotational period differences arising on the price fixations between purchases of copper cathode by Kazakhmys Sales Ltd from Kazakhmys LLC and sales of copper cathode by Kazakhmys Sales Ltd to end customers.
During 2009, the Group commenced a hedging programme which was intended to cover production from the higher cost mines in the Zhezkazgan region such that the viability of these mines was protected in the event of a decrease in the copper price below $3,000 per tonne.
The hedges covered 90 kt, or approximately 30% of the estimated copper production for 2009, and established a price protecting floor and a cap to the price receivable on the hedged copper sales.
As a result of the recovery in copper prices, losses under this hedging programme amounted to $129 million and have been recognised within other operating expenses see note 7 e. The hedging programme terminated in December 2009 and no positions remain outstanding in respect of 2010 or future years.
MKM uses natural hedging arising on back-to-back purchase and supply contracts to manage, to the fullest extent possible, its economic exposure to changes in the price of copper.
In the event of any timing mis-match on the purchase and supply contracts, MKM uses commodity futures to manage its short-term exposure to changes in the price of copper.
All commodity hedge contracts are for short-term duration less than 12 months.
For cash flow hedges the pre-tax amount removed from equity during the year and included in the income statement is a loss of $138 million 2008: gain of $143 million.
In the income statement $129 million loss is included in other operating expenses 2008: $143 million gain included in other operating income and $9 million loss is included in finance costs 2008: $nil.
As at 31 December 2009 there are no amounts retained in equity as all the cash flow hedges have matured.
com 137 b Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by categories are as follows: $ million Notes 2009 2008 1 Loans and receivables 22,23,24 1,118 810 2 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 28,29,30 1,874 2,704 3 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2 1 Loans and receivables comprise other non-current investments, trade and other receivables, current investments and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise borrowings, provision for cash payments payments for licences, deferred consideration and other, trade and other payables excluding payments received in advance and taxes payable that are non-financial instruments and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
3 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss comprise derivative financial instruments.
c Foreign exchange risk The Group has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from sales or purchases by an operating company in currencies other than that companys functional currency.
The functional currency of Kazakhmys LLC, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold and Kazakhmys Petroleum is the Kazakhstan tenge, with MKM having a Euro functional currency, Kazakhmys Services Ltd having a UK sterling functional currency, and the Company and the other entities within the Group having a US dollar functional currency.
The currencies giving rise to this foreign currency risk are primarily the US dollar based revenues and certain costs, bank deposits, trade receivables and certain trade payables of Kazakhmys LLC, and the US dollar balances in respect of certain revenues, and trade receivables and payables of MKM.
The Group generally does not enter into hedging positions in respect of its exposure to foreign currency risk.
No foreign exchange hedge transactions were entered into during 2009 or 2008. i Foreign currency exposure by company profile The analysis in the table below of the net monetary assets and liabilities indicates the Groups exposure to currencies other than the functional currency of a company.
These exposures represent the transactional exposures that may give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, these exposures were as follows: $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2009 Company n a 7 Kazakhmys LLC 2,131 n a Kazakhmys Gold 21 1 n a Kazakhmys Petroleum 14 n a Other non-trading or holding companies 54 1 1 2,084 7 1 1 1 $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2008 Company n a MKM 23 7 n a 1 Kazakhmys LLC 1,754 3 n a 3 Kazakhmys Power 267 n a 2 Kazakhmys Gold 6 n a Kazakhmys Petroleum 25 n a Other non-trading or holding companies n a 1 3 1,491 7 3 1 3 d Foreign currency exposure by balance sheet account profile The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk based on notional amounts is shown below: $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other Total 2009 Trade and other receivables 2,105 7 2,112 Current investments 53 53 Cash and cash equivalents 121 1 1 1 124 Provisions for cash payments 75 75 Borrowings 86 86 Trade and other payables 34 2 36 2,084 7 1 1 1 2,092 138 138 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other Total 2008 Trade and other receivables 1,682 7 1 1,690 Current investments 25 25 Cash and cash equivalents 141 1 1 143 Provisions for cash payments 74 74 Borrowings 188 188 Trade and other payables 95 3 5 103 1,491 7 3 1 3 1,493 e Foreign currency sensitivity analysis A 10% strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased equity and profit after tax by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2008: Impact on profit $ million 2009 2008 KZT 215 134 Euro 2 UK sterling 1 A 10% weakening of US dollar against the above currencies at 31 December would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
f Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in the price of copper, which is quoted in US dollars on the international markets.
The Group prepares annual budgets and periodic forecasts including sensitivity analyses in respect of various levels of copper prices in the future.
The Group is also exposed, to a lesser degree, to the prices of other metals, including zinc, gold and silver, which are products produced by the Group as by-products to the copper production process.
The Kazakhmys Power business is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in electricity tariffs that it is able to charge to customers.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
A 10% increase decrease of commodity prices would have increased decreased profit after tax by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular costs, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2008: Impact on profit $ million 2009 2008 Copper 1 1 Other commodities As explained in note 33 a above, the Group used forward commodity contracts to hedge against quotational period differences arising on price fixations within the UK sales operation during 2008, and for 2009 the Group entered into a hedging programme to protect the viability of higher cost mines in the Zhezkazgan region in the event of a decrease in the copper price below $3,000 per tonne.
There were no commodity hedge contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2009 2008: $nil.
g Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact borrowings by changing their future cash flows floating rate debt or their fair value fixed rate debt and deposits.
The Groups interest rate management policy is to generally borrow and invest at floating rates of interest.
In some circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
Local market conditions in Kazakhstan dictate that borrowings are generally fixed in nature and as such, borrowings in Kazakhstan are generally short-term in nature and used for working capital purposes only.
A limited amount of fixed rate hedging using interest rate swaps may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant, or in periods when interest rates are perceived to be below long-term historical levels.
At 31 December 2009, nil% 2008: 64% of total debt was at a fixed rate and the balance was at floating rate.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 139 At 31 December 2009 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Non-current investments 2 5 7 Trade and other receivables 150 150 Current investments 58 58 Cash and cash equivalents 245 616 42 903 Total financial assets 245 676 197 1,118 Financial liabilities Provisions for cash payments 75 75 Borrowings 1,650 1,650 1 Trade and other payables 147 147 Dividend payable 2 2 Total financial liabilities 1,650 75 149 1,874 1 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance and taxes payable that are non-financial instruments.
At 31 December 2008 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Non-current investments 1 2 2 5 Trade and other receivables 233 233 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 243 246 51 540 Total financial assets 244 280 286 810 Financial liabilities Provisions for cash payments 239 18 257 1 Borrowings 800 1,400 2,200 2 Trade and other payables 245 245 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Dividend payable 2 2 Total financial liabilities 800 1,641 265 2,706 1 Of the floating rate borrowings of $2,200 million, $1,400 million has been hedged using interest rate swap contracts from floating to fixed rate see below.
2 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance and taxes payable that are non-financial instruments.
The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant benchmark rate such as LIBOR.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Considering the net debt position of the Group at 31 December 2009, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss in the consolidated income statement, and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain.
The effect on profit after tax of a 10% movement in US$ LIBOR and EURIBOR rates, based on the year-end borrowings and with all other variables held constant, is estimated to be $1.7 million 2008: $1.7 million.
h Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments are with approved counter-party banks and other financial institutions in accordance with the Groups Treasury Policy.
Counterparties are assessed prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The maximum exposure with respect to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset on the balance sheet.
Credit risk relating to trade receivables The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the number and geographical spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts in order to minimise this exposure.
Customer credit risk is managed by each division but is subject to Group oversight to ensure that each divisions customer credit risk management system operates in a prudent and responsible manner.
Credit evaluations are performed for all major customers and credit limits are established based on internal or external rating criteria.
The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an on-going basis, and receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of good credit quality.
Letters of credit are obtained where customer credit quality is not considered strong enough for open credit.
There were no material impairments of trade receivables as at 31 December 2009 or 2008.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
Within Kazakhmys Copper, cash is received prior to delivery and transfer of title of the goods for sales to European customers.
Sales to Chinese customers are made under letters of credit which are obtained prior to delivery and transfer of title of the goods.
140 140 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Payment from European and Chinese customers is subject to provisional pricing and then final pricing adjustments.
Kazakhmys Copper is therefore exposed to the residual final pricing adjustment for each sales transaction although such amounts are not considered material.
Kazakhmys LLC also provides certain social services to municipal authorities in the communities in which it operates as part of its contractual obligations under its subsoil licences.
For most receivable balances due from municipal authorities, full provision is recognised in light of past payment history.
Kazakhmys Gold has a single long standing customer with short payment terms which is agreed via an annual sales contract.
Kazakhmys Power receives cash upfront or has short payment terms depending on the nature of the customer.
MKM has put in place credit insurance for the majority of its sales and credit limits are set by the credit insurance company depending on the financial strength and location of each customer.
For those sales where credit insurance is not available, short payment terms and regular dialogue with customers ensures credit risk is kept to a minimum.
As at 31 December 2009, 10 2008: 10 customers accounted for 87% 2008: 34% of the trade and other receivables balance of Kazakhmys Copper.
By 24 March 2010, 81% 25 March 2009: 98% of year-end balances due from these customers had been received in full.
i Risk for trade receivables by geographical regions The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic areas was: $ million 2009 2008 Europe 19 78 China 78 77 Kazakhstan 52 48 Other 1 30 150 233 ii Impairment losses The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was: 2009 2008 $ million Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Not past due 138 127 Past due 0-90 days 10 2 102 2 Past due 91-180 days 8 5 6 2 Past due 181-270 days 5 4 8 6 More than 270 days 41 41 34 34 202 52 277 44 The movement in the provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: $ million 2009 2008 At 1 January 44 33 Charged to income statement 23 10 Attributable to discontinued transactions 3 4 Written off 2 3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 10 Net exchange adjustment 6 At 31 December 52 44 iii Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk relating to the Groups other financial assets, comprising principally cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments arises from the potential default of counterparties.
Credit risk arising from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups Treasury Committee in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
Investment of cash and deposits are made only with approved counterparties of high credit worthiness and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
These limits are reviewed on a regular basis to take account of developments in financial markets and updated accordingly.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate any financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non performance of the counterparties to derivative financial instruments.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: $ million 2009 2008 Non-current investments 7 5 Trade and other receivables 150 233 Current investments 58 32 Cash and cash equivalents 903 540 1,118 810 STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 141 i Liquidity risk The Group maintains a balance between availability of funding and maximising investment return on its liquid resources through the use of liquid cash investments of varying maturities, credit facilities and longer term debt instruments.
Management regularly reviews the funding requirements of the Group in selecting appropriate maturities for its liquid cash investments.
In the event that bank term deposits in Kazakhstan need to be liquidated at short notice in advance of their contracted maturity date, the terms of these investments permit their immediate conversion to cash, and in some instances, the forfeiture of interest accrued to the date of liquidation.
The Groups policy is to centralise debt and surplus cash balances to the maximum extent possible.
Undrawn facilities $ million 2009 2008 Revolving credit facility within Kazakhmys Finance PLC 150 200 Letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities within Kazakhmys LLC 60 79 Credit lines 210 279 Maturity of financial assets and liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities, which will be settled on a gross basis, into relevant maturity groups based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than $ million On demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 2009 1 Provisions for cash payments 17 38 26 81 2 Borrowings 137 410 1,149 1,696 3 Trade and other payables 147 147 Derivative financial instruments Dividend payable 2 2 2 284 427 1,187 26 1,926 Non-current investments 7 7 Trade and other receivables 150 150 Current investments 58 58 Cash and cash equivalents 326 577 903 326 727 58 7 1,118 324 443 369 1,180 26 808 1 Provisions for cash payments are presented on an undiscounted gross basis.
2 Borrowings include expected future interest payments.
3 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance and taxes payable that are non-financial instruments.
Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than $ million On demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 2008 1 Provisions for cash payments 3 104 155 45 307 2 Borrowings 62 499 1,804 2,365 3 Trade and other payables 245 245 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Dividend payable 2 2 2 310 605 1,959 45 2,921 Non-current investments 5 5 Trade and other receivables 233 233 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 496 44 540 496 277 32 5 810 494 33 573 1,954 45 2,111 1 Provisions for cash payments are presented on an undiscounted gross basis.
142 142 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED j Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
2009 2008 $ million Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Other non-current investments 7 7 5 5 Trade and other receivables 150 150 233 231 Current investments 58 58 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 903 903 540 540 Provisions for cash payments 75 75 257 257 Borrowings 1,650 1,606 2,200 2,147 1 Trade and other payables 147 147 245 243 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Dividend payable 2 2 2 2 756 712 1,896 1,843 1 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance and taxes payable that are non-financial instruments.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: cash and cash equivalents, current investments, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and dividend payable approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments: during 2008 and 2009, the Group entered into interest rate swaps with various bank counterparties.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using current market interest rates and the yield curve over the remaining term of the instrument: provisions for cash payments are discounted back to their present value: and the fair value of borrowings is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt and remaining maturities.
k Capital management The over-riding objectives of the Groups capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through the commodity cycle and to maintain an optimal capital structure with a view to maximising returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders by reducing the Groups cost of capital.
As a result of acquisitions made during 2008, the Group has moved into a net debt position from continuing operations of $689 million as at 31 December 2009 2008: $1,628 million.
Included within the debt facilities are financial covenants related to maximum borrowing levels determined by reference to a Net Debt to EBITDA ratio and minimum tangible net worth for which compliance certificates are produced.
All financial covenants were fully complied with during the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
There are no covenants under negotiation at present.
At 31 December 2009, total capital employed which comprises equity shareholders funds, minority interests and borrowings of the Group amounted to $8,502 million, compared to $9,697 million at 31 December 2008.
Total capital employed is the measure of capital that is used by the Directors in managing capital.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Legal claims In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
The Directors believe that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Group.
As of 31 December 2009 and 2008, the Group was not involved in any significant legal proceedings, including arbitration.
b Kazakhstan taxation contingencies i Inherent uncertainties in interpreting tax legislation The Group is subject to uncertainties relating to the determination of its tax liabilities.
Kazakhstan tax legislation and practice are in a state of continuous development and, therefore, are subject to varying interpretations and changes which may be applied retrospectively.
Managements interpretation of tax legislation as applied to the transactions and activities of the Group may not coincide with that of the tax authorities.
As a result, the tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group may be assessed with additional taxes, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
ii Status of tax audits Kazakhmys Copper corporate income tax During 2006, Kazakhmys was subject to a corporate tax audit for the years 2003 to 2005.
The tax computations for the years after 2005 remain open for inspection.
Consequently, the tax figures recorded in the financial statements for these years may be subject to change.
The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in Kazakhstan and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
com 143 Kazakhmys Copper transfer pricing Year ended 31 December 2008 During 2007, Kazakhmys LLC was subject to a transfer pricing audit for the years 2001 to 2005.
In producing the tax audit act arising from the transfer pricing audit for 2001 to 2005, the tax authorities allowed for a 10% deviation from LME market prices, and also assumed that average LME prices for the month preceding the month when the bill of lading was issued were relevant for the purposes of transfer pricing rather than the quotation periods stipulated in the contracts that were used in determining revenues for accounting purposes.
This same criteria has been applied to 2008 export sales and therefore management believes that Kazakhmys LLC does not bear the risk of additional tax exposures relating to 2008 export sales.
Assuming the approach adopted by the tax authorities in future tax audits is consistent with that which has been applied in prior years, no tax provision has been provided for by Kazakhmys LLC in relation to transfer pricing on 2008 export sales.
However, the risk remains that the Kazakhstan tax authorities may take a different approach at the time of a future tax audit, and seek to impose additional tax assessments for transfer pricing for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008.
Year ended 31 December 2009 New transfer pricing legislation came into force on 1 January 2009.
The risk remains that the Kazakhstan tax authorities may take a different position with regards to the interpretation of the new transfer pricing legislation and the outcome of discussions with the Kazakhstan tax authorities may be materially different than managements expectations.
Kazakhmys Copper excess profits tax The issuance of the tax audit act following the tax audit performed in 2006 implicitly confirmed managements approach to excess profits tax for the years subject to audit.
The cumulative nature of excess profits tax calculations may result in a further assessment of excess profits tax for the years already subject to audit if subsequent tax audits challenge the methodology adopted by Kazakhmys LLC.
However, management believes the excess profits tax methodology adopted by Kazakhmys LLC is in compliance with legislation, and interpretations thereof, and has been applied for to the years subsequent to the period of the tax audit, i. e. 2006 to 2008.
The Group has fully provided in its financial statements for all potential tax liabilities relating to application of excess profits tax.
New tax legislation came into force in Kazakhstan on 1 January 2009 which removed the tax stabilisation of subsoil use contracts and changed the excess profits tax methodology.
Based on production and material flows for the year ended 31 December 2009 within Kazakhmys LLC, managements interpretation of the new tax legislation is that excess profits tax is no longer levied on Kazakhmys LLCs operations.
Managements position is supported by discussions and correspondence with the governmental authorities.
However, the risk remains that the Kazakhstan tax authorities may take a different position with regards to the interpretation of the new legislation and seek to impose excess profits tax on Kazakhmys LLCs operations for the years subsequent to 2008 at the time of a future tax audit.
iii Period for additional tax assessments The tax authorities in Kazakhstan are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the end of the relevant tax period in respect of all taxes, except for excess profits tax.
In respect of excess profits tax, they are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the expiration of the terms of the relevant subsoil contract.
iv Possible additional tax liabilities The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in Kazakhstan and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
However, due to the reasons set out above, the risk remains that the relevant tax authorities may take a differing position with regard to the interpretation of contractual provisions or tax law.
The resulting effect of this matter is that additional tax liabilities may arise.
However, due to the range of uncertainties described above in assessing any potential additional tax liabilities, it is not practicable for the Directors to estimate the financial effect in terms of the amount of additional tax liabilities, if any, together with any associated penalties and charges for which the Group may be liable.
c UK taxation contingencies i Status of tax audits In 2008, the UK tax authorities agreed the 2005 tax computation for the Company.
The enquiry window for the 2006 tax computation has now closed but the 2007 and 2008 tax computations remain open for inspection.
The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in the UK and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
ii Transfer pricing The Directors believes the Group is in substantial compliance with regards to UK transfer pricing legislation as an appropriate profit margin has been generated within the UK sales operation since its formation at the time of Listing to cover the transfer of risks and rewards from Kazakhstan to the UK.
144 144 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a and Accounts nd Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED d Insurance The insurance industry in Kazakhstan is in a developing state and many forms of insurance protection common in other parts of the world are not yet generally available.
The Group has purchased a catastrophic insurance programme in the London market to mitigate the effect of the loss or damage of certain of its assets located at its facilities and the resultant business interruption, although such a programme may not provide full cover in the event of a major loss.
The Group does not have third party liability coverage in respect of property or environmental damage arising from accidents on Group property or relating to Group operations.
There is a risk that the loss or destruction of certain assets could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial position.
e Environmental contingencies Environmental regulations in Kazakhstan are continually evolving and new emissions legislation is expected to become effective from 2012.
The outcome of the environmental regulations under proposal or any future environmental legislation cannot be reliably estimated at present.
As obligations are determined, they will be provided for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Directors believe that there are no significant liabilities under current legislation not accrued for in the Groups consolidated financial statements, however recognise that any future changes in legislation may have a significant impact on the Groups results.
The provision that has been made for costs associated with restoration and abandonment of mine sites upon depletion of deposits see note 28, is based upon the estimation of the Groups specialists.
Where events occur that change the level of estimated future costs for these activities, the provision will be adjusted accordingly.
f Use of subsoil and exploration rights In Kazakhstan, all subsoil reserves belong to the State, with the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources the Ministry granting exploration and production rights to third party bodies.
Subsoil and exploration rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed before the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
These rights may be terminated by the Ministry if the Group does not satisfy its contractual obligations.
The current subsoil rights will expire at varying dates up to 2062. g Other commitments The table below sets out the Groups expenditure commitments in property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2009 and 2008: $ million 2009 2008 Property, plant and equipment 196 298 The Group has capital expenditure commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment as well as commitments under its mining subsoil agreements and the petroleum exploration licence.
Committed expenditure under these subsoil agreements relates to investments in community-related projects, and includes investments in social sphere assets, infrastructure and public utilities.
h Guarantee of employee loans Kazakhmys LLCs employees are permitted to enter into loan arrangements with banks on normal commercial terms under which Kazakhmys LLC has guaranteed to deduct repayments from employees remuneration in accordance with agreed schedules of repayment.
The total value of this guarantee amounted to $4 million as at 31 December 2009 2008: $5 million.
i Operating lease commitments The operating lease expense for the year was $1 million 2008: $1 million.
At 31 December 2009 and 2008, the Group had the following total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: $ million 2009 2008 Within one year 1 1 After one year but not more than five years 6 5 More than five years 6 10 13 16 j Discontinued operations German taxation contingencies i Status of tax audits In 2007 the German tax authorities finalised a tax audit of MKM for the years 1999 to 2002.
The tax audit for the years from 2003 to 2005 is currently underway and the years 2006 to 2008 remain open for inspection.
The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in Germany and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES a Transactions with related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial period: Amounts Amounts owed by owed to Sales to Purchases related related related from related $ million parties parties parties parties Companies related to the Government 2009 681 2008 1 Companies under trust management 2009 16 7 41 2 2008 14 11 37 1 1 Other 2009 2 29 27 3 2008 4 48 13 9 1 A provision of $43 million 2008: $25 million has been set against the amounts owed by companies under trust management see note 22 and other companies see note 23.
The bad debt expense for the year in respect of related parties was $23 million 2008: $7 million.
i Government Share issue On 24 July 2008, the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government, thereby making the Government a 15% shareholder of the Company and a related party with effect from this date.
Sale of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP to Samruk On 10 December 2009 it was announced that the Group had agreed to dispose 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, a 100% owned subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division, to Samruk, an entity wholly owned and controlled by the Government of Kazakhstan, for consideration of $681 million.
Although the transaction completed on 26 February 2010, the Group received the consideration in December 2009 and it is included within trade and other payables see note 30.
Other transactions Throughout the normal course of business, the Group conducts transactions with entities controlled by the Government.
The principal activities relate to the payment of electricity transmission fees, use of railway infrastructure and payments to tax authorities.
Transactions between the Group and Government departments and agencies are considered to be related party transactions unless they meet all of the following criteria: they were done in the ordinary course of business of the Government department and or company: there is no choice of suppliers: and they have terms and conditions including prices, privileges, credit terms, regulations etc that are consistently applied to all entities, public or private.
The Group did not have any non-arms length or privileged transactions with entities controlled by the Government.
Dividend payment The Governments share of the interim dividend paid by the Company on 24 October 2008 was $11 million.
ii ENRC In 2009 the Group received dividends of $84 million from ENRC, the associated undertaking 2008: $38 million.
iii Companies under trust management agreements The Group operates a number of companies under trust management agreements with local and state authorities.
The activities include heating distribution systems, road maintenance and aviation services.
The purpose of these agreements is to provide public and social services without any material financial benefit for the Group.
Transactions between the Group and these companies are conducted on an arms length basis.
iv Other Transactions with other companies primarily relate to the provision of goods and services, on an arms length basis, with companies whose boards include members of senior management from the Groups subsidiaries.
During 2009 for commercial purposes, Kazakhmys LLC advanced amounts totalling $25 million to Eduard Ogay, the Chief Executive of Kazakhmys LLC, who engaged third parties to negotiate with suppliers to ensure that competitive terms and pricing were being obtained for the benefit of Kazakhmys LLC.
Until 31 December 2009, the third parties repaid $5 million of the amounts advanced to Eduard Ogay, who has in turn repaid these amounts to Kazakhmys LLC, such that the amount outstanding at 31 December 2009 was $20 million.
As at 29 March 2010, all outstanding amounts had been repaid by Eduard Ogay to Kazakhmys LLC.
b Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an ongoing basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
146 146 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
COMPANY NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS $ million 2009 2008 Cost At 1 January 7,289 2,819 Additions 22 2,350 Acquisition of ENRC shares via share exchange 2,110 Capitalised issuance costs 10 At 31 December 7,311 7,289 Provision for impairment At 1 January 991 Charged to the income statement 39 991 At 31 December 1,030 991 Net book value 6,281 6,298 i Kazakhmys LLC During 2008, a Group reorganisation took place such that the Companys investment in Kazakhmys LLC was transferred to an intermediate holding company through a share for share exchange.
As at 31 December 2009, Kazakhmys LLC is indirectly held by the Company whose beneficial interest is 99.73% 2008: 99.73%.
ii ENRC On 24 July 2008 the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC 7.66% of ENRCs issued share capital which it received on 28 July 2008.
The share price of the Company as at the date of the share issue was 13.17 per share, and the market value of the shares issued was $2,120 million, including issue costs of $10 million.
At 31 December 2008, the carrying value of the Companys investment in ENRC was $1,129 million reflecting the recoverable amount of the 7.66% interest in ENRC held at the Company level.
This reflects an impairment loss of $991 million being charged to the Companys income statement.
The impairment arises due to the different IFRS accounting treatment at the Company level of the 7.66% interest in ENRC which is recorded as an investment at cost, compared to the Groups equity accounting treatment.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charge is value in use, using a discounted cash flow model.
During 2009, a Group reorganisation took place such that the Companys investment in ENRC was transferred to an intermediate holding company through a share for share exchange.
iii Other investments Balances within additions reflect investments in intermediate holding companies through which the Groups entities are held in MKM, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold, Kazakhmys Petroleum and associated capitalised acquisition costs.
The Company acquired these investments in intermediate holding companies through share for share exchanges.
The impairment charge of $39 million is in respect of the Companys investment in Kazakhmys Services Ltd a wholly owned subsidiary.
The carrying value of the investment has been written down by $39 million to the net asset value of Kazakhmys Services Ltd. 37.
COMPANY TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES $ million 2009 2008 Trade receivables 7 Amounts due from related parties 95 22 102 22 38.
COMPANY CAPITAL RESERVES Capital Capital redemption $ million reserve reserve Total At 1 January 2008 779 4 783 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 2 2 At 31 December 2008 and 2009 779 6 785 i Capital reserve The capital reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when the shares issued pursuant to the share exchange agreements prior to the Companys listing were recorded at fair value.
To the extent the Company receives dividends from Kazakhmys LLCs profits created in the period prior to the share exchange, the capital reserve is realised through a transfer to distributable retained earnings.
ii Capital redemption reserve As a result of the share buy-back programme, transfers are made from share capital to the capital redemption reserve based on the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
COMPANY INTERCOMPANY BORROWINGS At 31 December 2009, intercompany borrowings of the Company include an amount of $nil due to Kazakhmys Finance PLC, the Groups financing company 2008: $2,046 million, which was advanced to the Company for the acquisition of the Kazakhmys Power business and incremental shares in ENRC and which has since been repaid.
This amount is non-interest bearing and is repayable on demand.
Intercompany borrowings of the Company also includes an amount of $1,463 million due to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, the Groups UK sales operations 2008: $1,463 million, which was put in place following the novation of the previous loan payable to Kazakhmys LLC.
Working capital balances owed to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd amounted to $203 million 2008: $37 million, and are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
COMPANY TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES $ million 2009 2008 Payables to related parties 60 Salaries and related payables 3 2 Other payables and accrued expenses 1 1 4 63 41.
COMPANY MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT At At 1 January 31 December $ million 2009 Cash flow 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 137 98 39 Intercompany borrowings 3,546 1,880 1,666 Net debt 3,409 1,782 1,627 At At 1 January Non-cash 31 December 1 $ million 2008 Cash flow movements 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 134 3 137 Intercompany borrowings 1,265 2,427 146 3,546 Net debt 1,131 2,424 146 3,409 1 Non-cash movements comprise $208 million of dividends receivable from Kazakhmys LLC that were offset against the loan payable to Kazakhmys LLC less $62 million of capitalised interest.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The UK sales function was transferred to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on 1 January 2008 so the financial risks borne by the Company have significantly reduced since that date.
The Company has a limited exposure to foreign currency, credit and interest rate risks and these are shown below.
The Company has no exposure to commodity, liquidity or price risks.
a Foreign currency risk The Company has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from transactions in currencies other than that the Companys functional currency being the US dollar.
Prior to the Group reorganisation in which the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC was transferred to an intermediate holding company, the primary currency giving rise to this foreign currency risk was the Kazakhstan tenge as a result of dividends receivable from Kazakhmys LLC within other operating income.
The Company is also exposed, to a lesser degree, to corporate costs included within trade and other receivables and trade and other payables which are primarily denominated in UK sterling.
The Company generally does not enter into hedging positions in respect of its exposure to foreign currency risk.
Following the transfer of the UK sales function to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd on 1 January 2008 and the Group reorganisation in which the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC was transferred to an intermediate holding company in 2008, the Company does not have any significant foreign currency risks.
b Credit risk The UK sales function was transferred to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on 1 January 2008 and therefore the Company no longer has any credit risk with regards to customers from that date.
Any remaining credit risk for the Company relates to cash and cash equivalents.
Balances within trade and other receivables mostly relate to amounts owed by Group undertakings resulting in reduced credit risk for these balances.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: $ million 2009 2008 Trade and other receivables 102 22 Cash and cash equivalents 39 137 141 159 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December 2009 and 2008 by geographic areas was Europe $102 million 2008: $22 million.
148 148 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED c Interest rate risk The Company has limited balances subject to interest rate risk.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 December 2009 Non-interest $ million Floating rate bearing Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables 102 102 Cash and cash equivalents 39 39 Total financial assets 39 102 141 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 4 4 Intercompany borrowings 1,666 1,666 Total financial liabilities 1,670 1,670 At 31 December 2008 Non-interest $ million Floating rate bearing Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables 22 22 Cash and cash equivalents 137 137 Total financial assets 137 22 159 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 63 63 Intercompany borrowings 3,546 3,546 Total financial liabilities 3,609 3,609 All the Companys interest bearing monetary assets are denominated in US dollars and have a maturity of less than one year.
d Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: 2009 2008 $ million Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Trade and other receivables 102 102 22 22 Cash and cash equivalents 39 39 137 137 Intercompany borrowings 1,666 1,666 3,546 3,546 Trade and other payables 4 4 63 63 1,529 1,529 3,450 3,450 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and intercompany borrowings approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
e Capital management The over-riding objectives of the Companys capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through the commodity cycle and to maintain an optimal capital structure with a view to maximising returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders by reducing the Companys cost of capital.
COMPANY RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES a Transactions with related parties The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial period.
Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed by owed to related from related related related $ million parties parties parties parties Kazakhmys Corporation LLC 2009 2008 3 2 Kazakhmys Finance PLC 2009 32 2008 2,046 Kazakhmys Sales Ltd 2009 1 1,666 2008 20 1,550 1 Other Group companies 2009 62 2008 10 1 Includes Kazakhmys Services Ltd 2008: Kazakhmys Services Ltd and Kazakhmys Holding BV As explained in note 35, the Government became a related party on 24 July 2008.
Transactions involving the Government are explained in note 35.
The Company received dividends of $17 million from Kazakhmys Sales Ltd 2008: $150 million, $1,894 million from Kazakhmys Investments Ltd 2008: $nil and $nil from Kazakhmys Eurasia BV 2008: $94 million during the year.
In addition, the Company received dividends of $19 million from ENRC 2008: $12 million, the Groups associated undertaking, during the year.
b Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an on-going basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
SUBSIDIARIES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and the principal subsidiaries listed in the following table: Equity Equity interest at interest at 31 December 31 December Principal Operating Country of 2009 2008 activity division incorporation % % 1 1 Kazakhmys Corporation LLC Mining and processing copper Kazakhmys Copper Kazakhstan 99.7 99.7 Kazakhmys Sales Ltd Sales and logistics Kazakhmys Copper United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 1 1 Dank LLP Mining and processing gold Kazakhmys Gold Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Exploration, mining 1 1 Charaltyn JSC and processing gold Kazakhmys Gold Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Andas Altyn LLP Mining and processing gold Kazakhmys Gold Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Gold Kyrgyzstan LLP Gold mine development Kazakhmys Gold Kyrgyzstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Petroleum LLP Oil and gas exploration Kazakhmys Petroleum Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Kazakhmys Finance PLC Group financing N A United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 MKM Mansfelder Kupfer 2 1 1 und Messing GmbH Copper processing MKMGermany 100.0 100.0 2 1 1 Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP Electric power generation Kazakhmys Power Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 2 1 1 Maikuben-West LLP Coal miningKazakhmys PowerKazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 Indirectly held by the Company.
2 Classified as held for sale see note 5.
GUARANTEES The Company is the guarantor for the following: as explained in note 29, the Company, together with Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, is a guarantor of the $1,662 million pre-export finance debt facility: and the operating lease on the Companys head office in London.
150 150 K Ka azakh zakhmys mys Annual Annual Report Report a an nd Accounts d Accounts 2009 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 46.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE a Sale of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP to Samruk On 10 December 2009 it was announced that the Group had agreed to dispose 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, a 100% owned subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division, to Samruk, an entity wholly owned and controlled by the Government of Kazakhstan, for consideration of $681 million.
The transaction completed on 26 February 2010 and the Group has retained a non-controlling interest of 50% in the entity which shall be accounted for as a joint venture after the date of completion.
The main governing board of the joint venture will be the supervisory board, which will comprise four members, two from the Group and two from Samruk.
The supervisory board will make decisions which require unanimity in respect of areas such as personnel, investments, reporting, budgets, sales, procurement and loans.
Management of Ekibastuz will initially be undertaken by a representative appointed by Kazakhmys for the first five years and will then rotate every five years.
The appointment of the General Director and Audit Committee members will also rotate every five years.
The Group and Samruk will each have 50% of the voting rights and no party will have overall control over Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP.
b China Development Bank funding Summary of the transaction On 13 October 2009, the Group announced that it was in discussions with China Development Bank Corporation CDB and Samruk regarding a potential loan facility.
On 30 December 2009, Kazakhmys announced that it had secured up to $2.7 billion loan facilities with CDB and Samruk, allocated from a $3.0 billion financing line agreed between CDB and Samruk.
Of the up to $2.7 billion secured for Kazakhmys, facility agreements were signed for $2.1 billion on 30 December 2009, and for a further $200 million on 12 January 2010, for the development of Kazakhmys projects at Bozymchak and Bozshakol and other development projects, with the balance of $400 million remaining available over the next three years.
In the event Samruk is unable to source financing for the Moynak hydro-electric plant then $100 million of the $400 million may be made available for the Moynak plant reducing the funds available to Kazakhmys to $300 million.
Samruk has separately signed an agreement for $300 million of the $3.0 billion to be used elsewhere and not for the benefit of the Group.
As part of this financing package, the Company, along with a subsidiary of Samruk, provided a guarantee in favour of CDB in respect of Samruks obligations under the $3.0 billion financing line, including up to 85% of the $300 million which was not on-lent for the benefit of the Group, which could increase to 85% of $400 million in the event that $100 million is lent for the Moynak plant.
The financing arrangements with CDB and Samruk were agreed on competitive terms, particularly given the prevailing market conditions and the difficulty experienced by CIS companies in accessing credit.
Under the terms of the facility agreements, Kazakhmys secured a significant amount of funds on flexible and long-dated terms which will be used to develop Kazakhmys growth projects.
Related party transaction Samruk is an entity wholly owned and controlled by the Government of Kazakhstan, the ultimate owner and controller of a 15% stake in the Company.
The transaction therefore constitutes a related party transaction for the purposes of the Listing Rules.
Due to the size of the up to $340 million guarantee liability, the UK Listing Authority confirmed on 1 March 2010 that the transaction falls within the modified requirements for a smaller related party transaction set out in Listing Rule 11.1.
Details of the transaction The transaction consists of a two-tier structure, with loans from CDB to Samruk and back-to-back arrangements between Samruk and the Company.
Samruk has signed facility agreements with Kazakhmys Finance PLC Kazakhmys Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, pursuant to which Samruk will lend $2.3 billion of the up to $2.7 billion loan facility lent to it by CDB.
It is intended that the remaining up to $400 million will be lent by CDB to Samruk and on-lent by Samruk to Kazakhmys Finance over the next three years for funding the development of the Groups projects approved by CDB and Samruk, which could decrease to $300 million if $100 million is lent for the Moynak plant.
The agreements between Samruk and Kazakhmys Finance operate back-to-back with the agreements between CDB and Samruk, such that any payment both interest and principal by Kazakhmys Finance to Samruk will result in a corresponding payment by Samruk to CDB.
Other relevant terms, such as the period during which the loans are available and the termination dates of the agreements, also correspond.
The funds are available for drawing anytime within a three year period and once drawn will attract interest semi-annually at an annualised rate of US$ LIBOR plus 4.8%.
The loans have a final maturity of between 12 and 15 years from the first drawdown and repayment of capital commences from the end of the third year following the first drawdown.
As part of the financing package, the Company and JSC Kazakhtelecom Kazakhtel, a subsidiary of Samruk, have provided a guarantee to CDB for a maximum of $2.0 billion of the $3.0 billion of loans made and to be made by CDB to Samruk the Guarantee.
The Companys liability under the Guarantee is capped at $1.7 billion of principal plus 85% of any interest and any other duly payable costs and expenses.
Any payments under the Guarantee will be netted off against payments to be made by Kazakhmys Finance under the loan agreements between it and Samruk.
As the Guarantee is several and covers the separate $300 million loan made by CDB to Samruk but not lent on for the benefit of the Group, the Company will be liable as to 85% of that amount i. e. up to $255 million if Samruk fails to make a payment due under that loan to CDB.
In addition, should Samruk not secure $100 million for its Moynak hydro-electric plant by 31 March 2010, then the Guarantee will increase by 85% of this amount, to $340 million.
Furthermore, the Company has granted a separate $2.7 billion parent company guarantee to Samruk, pursuant to which the Company guarantees repayment of all amounts lent by Samruk to Kazakhmys Finance, as is typical in such corporate loan facilities.
The guarantees under this facility took effect on 1 March 2010 following receipt of confirmation from the UK Listing Authority.
The first draw down under the facility for $300 million was made on 17 March 2010, with $100 million of the funds being for the Bozymchak project in Kyrgyzstan and $200 million of the funds being for the development of the Groups projects, other than Bozymchak and Bozshakol.
c Tenge bond On 29 January 2010 the Group completed its debut bond issue on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange.
The bond, with a total value of 10 billion tenge approximately $67 million, was issued by Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP, for general corporate purposes, including financing the future capital expenditure programme in the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant.
The bond has a coupon of 12% and will mature in five years.
d Revolving credit facilities On 11 March 2010, Kazakhmys Finance PLC signed a one year $100 million revolving credit facility with a maturity date in March 2011.
On 26 March 2010, Kazakhmys Finance PLC signed an agreement to extend the $150 million revolving credit facility for an additional year to March 2011. e Post year-end dividend The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 of 9.0 US cents per share.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2010, this dividend shall be paid on 18 May 2010.
