78 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2010 annual general meeting of ii otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution, Keller Group plc incorporated and registered in England and Wales up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,215,774 such with company number 02442580 the Company will be held at amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount the offices of RBS Hoare Govett Limited, 250 Bishopsgate, London of Relevant Securities allotted pursuant to paragraph i of EC2M 4AA on 17 May 2010 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: this resolution in excess of 2,215,774, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of provided that unless previously revoked, varied or which resolutions 1-5 inclusive and 7 will be proposed as ordinary renewed these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of resolutions and resolutions 6 and 8-10 inclusive will be proposed the next annual general meeting of the Company after the as special resolutions.
In accordance with the Companys articles passing of this resolution or on 17 August 2011 whichever of association, resolutions 1, 3-5 inclusive and 7-9 inclusive is the earlier, save that, in each case, the Company shall shall be ordinary business and resolutions 2, 6 and 10 shall be be entitled to make any offer or agreement before the special business.
expiry of the authority which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such expiry and the 1.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the year ended Directors shall be entitled to allot Relevant Securities 31 December 2009, together with the reports of the directors pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority of the Company Directors and the auditors thereon.
To approve the report on Directors remuneration for the year In this resolution, Relevant Securities means shares in ended 31 December 2009. the Company or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company: a reference to the 3.
To re-elect as a Director Mr James Hind, who retires by allotment of Relevant Securities includes the grant of such rotation.
a right: and a reference to the nominal amount of a 4.
To re-elect as a Director Dr Wolfgang Sondermann, who Relevant Security which is a right to subscribe for or to retires by rotation.
convert any security into shares in the Company is to the nominal amount of the shares which may be allotted 5.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company pursuant to that right.
and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
All previous authorisations given by the Company in general 6.
THAT: meeting or otherwise pursuant to section 551 of the Act are i the articles of association of the Company be amended by hereby revoked to the extent not previously exercised.
deleting all the provisions of the Companys memorandum 8.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 7 above, the of association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Companies Act 2006 the Act, are to be treated as section 570 and section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities provisions of the Companys articles of association: and within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash and to ii the articles of association produced to the meeting and sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification for cash pursuant to the authorities conferred by resolution 7 be adopted as the new articles of association of the as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: the existing articles of association.
i in respect of the authority conferred by resolution 7 i, the 7.
THAT the Directors be and are hereby generally and allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares in unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of connection with a rights issue as defined in the Listing the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Rules published by the Financial Services Authority : Relevant Securities: a to holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the i comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 1 Company in proportion as nearly as practicable to the of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them: 4,431,549 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate and nominal amount of Relevant Securities allotted pursuant to b to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the paragraph ii of this resolution in connection with a rights Company, as required by the rights of those securities issue as defined in the Listing Rules published by the or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise Financial Services Authority : consider necessary, a to holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as Company in proportion as nearly as practicable to the the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them: and to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or b to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the any legal or practical problems under the laws of any Company, as required by the rights of those securities territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise stock exchange: and consider necessary, ii the allotment of equity securities whether by way of a but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the rights issue, open offer or otherwise or sale of treasury Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to shares pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph ii treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or any of resolution 7 in each case, otherwise than pursuant to legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the paragraph i of this resolution up to an aggregate nominal requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and amount of 332,366: Keller Group plc 79 and unless previously revoked, varied or renewed this Notes authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual 1.
Resolution 1 Accounts and reports general meeting of the Company after the passing of this A public company is required to lay its annual accounts and resolution or on 17 August 2011 whichever is the earlier, report at a general meeting under the Companies Act 2006 the save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an Act.
The accounts, the report of the directors and the report of offer or agreement which would or might require equity the Companys auditors on the accounts are contained within the securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold for annual report and accounts.
cash after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity 2.
Resolution 2 Directors remuneration securities or sell treasury shares for cash pursuant to any Under the Act, officially listed companies are required to put an such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby ordinary resolution to shareholders on the Directors remuneration had not expired.
report at the general meeting of the Company before which the All previous authorisations given by the Company in accounts are laid.
general meeting or otherwise pursuant to section 570 and 3.
Resolutions 3 and 4 Re-election of Directors 573 of the Act are hereby revoked to the extent not The Companys articles of association require that at every annual previously exercised.
general meeting one third of the Directors who are subject to 9.
THAT, pursuant to section 701 of the Act, the Company be retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or a multiple and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third shall make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 retire from office.
Mr James Hind and Dr Wolfgang Sondermann of the Act of up to in aggregate 6,647,324 of its own ordinary will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Dr Kevin shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Bond, who has now served for nine years as a Director, will also Shares representing 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary retire by rotation, but will not stand for re-election.
Share capital at the date of this notice provided that: 4.
Resolution 5 Re-appointment of auditors and auditors i the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary remuneration Share is the higher of: a an amount equal to not more Under the Act, the auditors of a company must be re-appointed than 5% above the average of the middle market at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
quotations for the Ordinary Shares taken from the London Resolution 5 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Under the days immediately preceding the day on which the Act, the remuneration of an auditor must be fixed by the purchase is made exclusive of expenses payable by the shareholders by ordinary resolution or in such manner as the Company : and b an amount equal to the higher of the shareholders by ordinary resolution determine.
Resolution 5 gives price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share authority to the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary 5.
Resolution 6 Adoption of new articles of association Share on the trading venue where the purchase is of the Company carried out: This resolution proposes that new articles of association New ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be Articles of the Company be adopted in order to update the paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p, Companys existing articles of association Existing Articles primarily to take account of the implementation of the last parts of and unless previously revoked, varied or renewed the the Act.
In addition to reflecting the provisions of the Act, the New authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the Articles also contain a number of changes that generally update conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the the Existing Articles bringing the provisions into line with market Company after the passing of this resolution, except that the practice and otherwise modernising the language.
The proposed Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract for the New Articles, together with a comparison document which shows purchase of its own shares under which such purchase would the changes made to the Existing Articles, are available for or may require to be completed or executed wholly or partly inspection on the Companys website www.
after the expiration of this authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract as if the The key changes introduced by the New Articles are set out said authority had not expired.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect 10.
THAT a general meeting of the Company other than an changes made by the 2006 Act or conform the language of the annual general meeting may be called on not less than New Articles with that used in the model articles for public 14 days notice.
companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, have not been noted below.
By order of the Board 1 Memorandum of association Jackie Holman Registered office: The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are Secretary Capital House, 25 Chapel Street currently set out in the Companys Memorandum of Association 2 March 2010 London NW1 5DH the Memorandum and in the Existing Articles.
The Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
The Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Act provides that a memorandum will only record the names of the subscribers and the number of 80 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued shares each subscriber has agreed to take in a company.
Under 8 Registration of share allotments and transfers the Act the objects clause and all other provisions which are Sections 115 2 and 554 of the Act require that share allotments contained in a companys memorandum for existing companies and transfers are registered as soon as practicable.
The last at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in a companys sentence of article 39 of the Existing Articles together with article articles of association, although a company can remove these 41 in its entirety have therefore been deleted.
Further, the Act states that unless 9 Requirement to hold an annual general meeting a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are Under section 336 of the Act, a public company is required to hold unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have its annual general meeting within six months of the end of the objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to financial year, to coincide with reduced filing periods for a public remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of the companys accounts.
Rather than set this out currently article 57 Memorandum which, by virtue of the Act, would be treated as in the Existing Articles, the New Articles are silent so that the forming part of the New Articles.
Resolution 6 i confirms the default position set out in section 336 of the Act now applies.
removal of these provisions for the Company.
10 General meetings: notice periods As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement i Section 307 2 of the Act provides that annual general currently in the Memorandum regarding limited liability, the New meetings of public companies require 21 clear days notice Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited and all other general meetings require 14 clear days notice.
liability of the shareholders of the Company.
The articles may specify longer periods of notice, and in the 2 Authorised share capital Existing Articles this is 20 working days notice for annual The concept of authorised share capital has been abolished by general meetings and 14 clear days notice for other general the Act.
References to authorised share capital and unissued meetings article 60 of the Existing Articles.
This article has shares have therefore been deleted in the New Articles.
been deleted so that the default position set out in section 307 2 of the Act now applies.
3 Redeemable shares Under the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act, if a company ii See note 8 below regarding resolution 10, which is required in wished to issue redeemable shares it had to include in its articles order for the Company to call a meeting other than an annual the terms and manner of redemption.
Section 685 of the Act general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
enables directors to determine such matters instead provided 11 General meetings: consent to short notice they are so authorised by the articles of a company.
Article 5 of Sections 307 4 6 and section 337 2 of the Act provide that for the New Articles now provides such an authorisation.
a public company annual general meeting to be held on short 4 Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and notice, all members entitled to attend and vote must agree.
For sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital any other public company general meeting the default position for Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific enabling consent to short notice is a majority in number of the members provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate who together hold not less than 95 per cent.
in nominal value or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other of the shares carrying the right to attend and vote excluding undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to treasury shares.
Practice is for articles to be silent on this.
The Existing Articles include these Therefore, Article 62 of the Existing Articles has been deleted.
Under the Act a company will only require 12 General meetings: contents of notice shareholder authority to do any of these things and it is no longer Sections 311, 325 and 327 of the Act in relation to annual necessary for a companys articles to contain enabling provisions.
general meetings specify what must be contained in a notice of Such provisions have therefore been deleted for example, articles general meeting.
Practice is to delete the equivalent provisions to 52, 53 and 56 of the New Articles have been deleted.
Article 60.1 of the Existing Articles has therefore 5 Fractions been deleted.
Article 50 of the New Articles provides that where any members 13 Special business at an annual general meeting entitlement to net proceeds of sale of fractional entitlements is It is no longer necessary to specify what may or may not be less than 5.00, such proceeds may be paid to the Company special business at an annual general meeting.
Accordingly, article or distributed to a charity.
The reference to distribution of the 66 of the Existing Articles has been deleted.
proceeds to a charity is a new provision contained in the New Articles.
14 Borrowing powers The articles have been updated to include reference to IFRS 6 Transfer of shares terminology for example, article 112 in the New Articles refers to The Act provides that if the directors of a company refuse to retained earnings rather than profit and loss account.
register a transfer of shares then, in addition to sending the purported transferee notice of refusal, the directors must also give 15 Vacation of office by director reasons for the refusal and any further information about such The articles have been updated to reflect the slightly different reasons that the purported transferee may reasonably request.
provisions in the model articles for public companies which apply The New Articles have therefore been amended in this regard.
when the office of a director is vacated by reason of ill health see article 117 in the New Articles.
7 Uncertificated securities The Act contains a power to make regulations relating to 16 Notice of board meetings uncertificated shares, which envisages replacement of the In certain circumstances it is not necessary under the Existing Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
References to the Articles for a Director to receive notice of board meetings if he Regulations have therefore been deleted in the New Articles and is absent from the United Kingdom.
This provision has been a generic description of the rules relating to uncertificated removed as modern communications mean that there may be no securities has been included.
particular obstacle to giving notice to a Director who is abroad.
Keller Group plc 81 17 Use of seals 7.
Resolution 9 Purchase of the Companys own shares A company previously required authority in its articles to have This resolution grants a limited authority to the Company to an official seal for use abroad but since 1 October 2009 such purchase through the market up to 10% of its issued share authority is no longer required.
The resolution specifies the maximum and minimum authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
prices at which the Ordinary Shares may be bought at the date of the notice.
The authority sought will expire at the conclusion of The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of the next annual general meeting following the passing of this documents other than share certificates.
Under the New Articles, resolution.
when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by any person authorised by the Directors for that purpose whereas 8.
Resolution 10 Calling a general meeting on previously the requirement was for signature by either one 14 days notice Director and the Company secretary or by two Directors.
This resolution is intended to allow the Company to take advantage of an opt-out in the EU Shareholder Rights Directive 18 Electronic communications Directive 2007 36 EC, which will allow the Company to retain a The Existing Articles already contain provisions relating to 14-day notice period for Company meetings other than annual electronic communications but a number of small refinements general meetings.
Under the Directive, listed companies must have been made to ensure that the New Articles are in line with provide 21 days notice of a general meeting, unless the the current terminology.
Company offers the facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means that is accessible to all shareholders, and shareholders 6.
Resolutions 7 and 8 Authority to allot shares and have approved the holding of general meetings on 14 clear days disapplication of pre-emption rights notice.
Passing resolution 10 will mean that the Company can call Under the Act, the Directors may only allot shares if authorised a meeting other than an annual general meeting on 14 clear days to do so under section 551 of the Act.
Section 561 of the Act notice, provided that it offers the facility for shareholders to vote prevents allotments of equity securities for cash other than to by electronic means at any such meeting.
existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, unless the Directors are specifically authorised to do otherwise.
Record date This gives existing shareholders what are known as pre-emption Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of rights.
the Company as at 6.00 pm on 15 May 2010 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members as at 6.00 pm Under resolution 7 i, the Directors will be able to issue new on the date that is two days before the time of any adjourned shares up to a nominal amount of 4,431,549, which is equal to meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that capital as at 2 March 2010, to existing shareholders in proportion time.
Changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00 pm to their holdings in connection with a rights issue as defined in on 15 May 2010 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, the Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
after 6.00 pm on the date that is two days before the time of any This amount shall be reduced to the extent that any shares are adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights allotted under the authority granted by resolution 7 ii.
of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Additionally, resolution 7 ii will give the Directors the authority to 10.
Proxies issue shares up to a nominal amount of 2,215,774, which is 10a A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more persons as equal to approximately one-third of the Companys issued proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak ordinary share capital at 2 March 2010.
This amount shall be and vote at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more reduced to the extent that any shares are allotted pursuant to the than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each authority granted by resolution 7 i in excess of 2,215,774. proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a Under resolution 8 i, the Directors will be able to issue shares for different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not be a cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their member of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy will not existing holdings, in connection with a rights issue as defined in preclude a shareholder from attending and voting in person at the Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
the meeting if he so wishes.
To appoint more than one proxy shareholders will need to complete a separate proxy form for Under resolution 8 ii, the Directors will be able to issue shares for each proxy.
Copies of additional proxy forms can be obtained cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their from the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, by existing holdings, up to a maximum nominal amount of 332,366, telephoning 0871 384 2264.
Calls to this number are representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony share capital at 2 March 2010.
This is intended to ensure that costs may vary.
The Equiniti overseas helpline number is existing shareholders are provided with an element of protection.
Alternatively, shareholders may The Board has no current plans to allot Ordinary Shares and does photocopy the form of proxy indicating on each copy the not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital, name of the proxy to be appointed and the number of shares other than in respect of a rights issue, in any three-year period.
in respect of which the proxy is appointed.
A failure to specify the number of shares to which each proxy appointment The authority sought by resolutions 7 and 8 will expire at the relates or specifying a number in excess of those held by the conclusion of the next annual general meeting following the shareholder may result in the proxy appointment being passing of these resolutions, but could be varied or withdrawn by invalid.
The total votes cast and in respect whereof agreement of shareholders at an intervening general meeting.
abstention is recorded by a shareholder or his duly appointed proxies may not, in aggregate, exceed the total number of the votes exercisable by that shareholder in respect of 82 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued Ordinary Shares of which he is the holder.
All forms of proxy The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction should be returned together in the same envelope.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Shareholders can only appoint a proxy using the procedures Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Nominated Persons right of a shareholder under section 324 of the Act to appoint A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to a proxy does not apply to a person nominated to enjoy persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Act.
information rights under Section 146 of the Act a Nominated 10b A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid, it must be Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by a completed, signed and sent to the offices of the Companys Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL so as to arrive no later than agreement between him and the member by whom he was 11.00 am on 15 May 2010 or, in the event that the meeting nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have is adjourned, no later than 48 hours before the time of any someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not adjourned meeting.
have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member 10c CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies as to the exercise of voting rights.
It is important for any through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service Nominated Person to remember that his main contact in terms of may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST his investment remains as it was for example, the registered Manual on the Euroclear website www.
shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored investment on the Nominated Persons behalf.
Therefore any members and those CREST members who have appointed changes or queries relating to a Nominated Persons personal a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST details and holding including any administration thereof must sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take continue to be directed to that Nominated Persons existing the appropriate action on their behalf.
contact at his investment manager or custodian.
The Company cannot guarantee dealing with matters that are directed to it in In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the error.
The only exception to this is where the Company, in CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message exercising one of its powers under the Act, writes to a Nominated a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Person directly for a response.
in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for 12.
Multiple corporate representatives such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The 12a A member which is a corporation is entitled to appoint more message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment than one corporate representative and all of those appointed of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a can attend the meeting of the Company.
previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 12b In accordance with the provisions of the Act, each such RA19 by no later than 11.00 am on 15 May 2010.
No such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the message received through the CREST network after this time same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be individual member of the Company, provided that they do not taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which to nominate a designated corporate representative.
the registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to 13.
Website publication of audit concerns CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, A shareholder or shareholders having a right to vote at the any change of instructions to proxies appointed through meeting and holding at least 5% of the total voting rights of the CREST should be communicated to the appointee through Company see note 16 below, or at least 100 shareholders other means.
having a right to vote at the meeting and holding, on average, at CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST least 100 of paid up share capital, may require the Company to sponsors or voting service provider s should note that publish on its website a statement setting out any matter that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available such shareholders propose to raise at the meeting relating to special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
either the audit of the Companys accounts including the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the before the meeting or any circumstances connected with an responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or annual general meeting of the Company in accordance with sponsored member or has appointed a voting service section 527 of the Act.
provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting Any such request must: service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the a identify the statement to which it relates, by either setting out CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, the statement in full or, if supporting a statement requested by CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST another shareholder, clearly identifying the statement which is sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in being supported: particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning b comply with the requirements set out in note 14 below: and practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
c be received by the Company at least one week before the meeting.
Keller Group plc 83 Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on 18.
Documents available for inspection its website: Copies of all the Directors service contracts, letters of appointment or memoranda of the terms thereof: the register of i it may not require the shareholders making the request to interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company: the pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying memorandum and the Existing Articles and proposed New with the request: Articles together with a comparison document showing the changes between the two will be available for inspection at the ii it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors no registered office of the Company during usual business hours on later than the time when it makes the statement available on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the the website: and date of this notice until the date of the annual general meeting iii the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of and will be available for inspection at the place of the annual the meeting.
general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Methods of making requests Any request by a shareholder or shareholders to require the 19.
Communications with the Company Company to publish audit concerns as set out in note 13 above: Except as provided above, shareholders who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should a may be made either: do so using the following means: i in hard copy, by sending it to The Secretary, Keller Group a calling our shareholder helpline on 0871 600 3987: calls to plc, 12th Floor, Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline: NW1 5DH: or other telephony costs may vary.
The Equiniti overseas helpline ii in electronic form, by sending it to 44 0 20 7616 7576, number is 44 121 415 7047: or marked for the attention of The Secretary or to b writing to the Companys Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect info@keller.
co. uk please state Keller Group plc: AGM in House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA the subject line of the email : No other methods of communication will be accepted.
Any b must state the full name s and address es of the electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company shareholder s : and or Equiniti Limited which is found to contain a virus will not be c where the request is made in hard copy form or by fax must accepted by the Company, but every effort will be made by be signed by the shareholder s. the Company to inform the shareholder of the rejected communication.
Questions Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in Directors biographical details are set out on pages 30 and 31. accordance with section 319A of the Act.
The Company must cause to be answered at the meeting any such question unless: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or would involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Issued share capital As at 2 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital consists of 66,473,235 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each.
As the Company holds 2,229,750 Ordinary Shares in treasury, in respect of which it cannot exercise any votes, the total voting rights in the Company as at 2 March 2010 are 64,243,485.
Information available on the Companys website The following information is, or will be, available on the Companys website www.
co. uk, as required by section 311A of the Act: i the contents of this notice of the meeting: ii the total number of Ordinary Shares, in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: iii the total voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting in respect of the Ordinary Shares: and iv any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice.
