Glossary Gaming Machines AAMS Amministrazione autonoma dei monopoli di stato the Italian regulatory Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT content and B3 content e. g. 500 payout jackpot games, as authority.
defined by the 2005 Gambling Act.
ABB Association of British Bookmakers.
Gross Win Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission i. e. the Adjusted Cost per Acquisition amount of money left behind by the customer.
Total of all online and offline recruitment marketing spend including promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses Net Revenue relating to deals where affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up Gross win less fair value adjustments e. g. fair value of reward points, and all bonus costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and associate income.
share affiliates divided by the aggregate number of real money signOddsOn!
ups from non-affiliate sources and the number of real money sign-ups Ladbrokes Loyalty scheme which awards customers with a point through affiliates that are paid a one-off fee.
for every amount staked Over The Counter.
These points are then accumulated and can be redeemed for free bets, odds enhancements AMLD amusement machine licence duty An annual duty payment relating to gaming machines.
The rate of duty or win bonuses.
payable varies according to machine category.
Operating profit Average Monthly Active Player Days Profit before finance costs and tax.
The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number Operating margin of days they have played during the period.
Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net revenue.
Bet in Play OTC Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes Over-the-counter.
Real Money Sign-up Category B2 gaming machine A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an account Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize with the Company.
To address the issues posed by shared wallets.
Customers are categorised between lines of business according to Category B3 gaming machine where they first register on the gaming site.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 1 and maximum prize Responsibility in Gambling Trust RiGT of 500.
A charity that funds treatment, education and research related to Cost per Acquisition problem gambling.
Total of all online and offline marketing spend including promotions and SIS Satellite Information Services bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses relating to deals Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television where affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up and all bonus programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
divided by the aggregate of the number of real money sign-ups from Special dividend non-affiliate sources and the number of real money sign-ups through A one-time distribution of funds to shareholders.
affiliates that are paid a one-off fee.
Unique Active Player EBITDA A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
FOBTs or Fixed Odds Betting Terminals Yield per Unique Active Player Computerised machines which allow players to bet on the outcome Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active Players of various games and events with fixed odds, including roulette.
Gambling Act The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
GamCare A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with gambling-related problems.
Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
129 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp057-129.
indd 129 26 02 2010 00:42 lAdbRokes plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2009 Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
com todAY toMoRRoW AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2009 Designed and produced by Merchant.
Printed by Beacon Press using their pureprint environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Beacon Press is a CarbonNeutral company an is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The papers used for the production of this report are certified by the Forestry Stewardship Council and are elemental chlorine free.
The producing Mills are certified to ISO14001 and registered to EMAS.
