Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Legal status and activities Lamprell plc was incorporated and registered on 4 July 2006 in the Isle of Man as a public company limited by shares under the Isle of Man Companies Acts with the registered number 117101C.
The Company acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership in LEL from LHL, under a share for share exchange agreement dated 25 September 2006 and this transaction was accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the uniting of interests method Note 27.
The Company was admitted to the AIM of the London Stock Exchange with effect from 16 October 2006.
From 6 November 2008, the Company moved from AIM and was admitted to trading on the LSE plcs main market for listed securities.
The address of the registered office of the Company is 1519 Athol Street, Douglas, Isle of Man and the Company is managed from the UAE.
The address of the principal place of the business is PO Box 33455, Dubai, UAE.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are: the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs: fabrication: assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, including jackup rigs: FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures: and oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
The Company has either directly or indirectly the following subsidiaries: Percentage Percentage of legal of beneficial ownership ownership Country of Name of the subsidiary % % incorporation Lamprell Energy Limited 100 100 Isle of Man Lamprell Dubai LLC 49 100 UAE Lamprell Sharjah WLL 49 100 UAE Maritime Offshore Limited 100 100 Isle of Man Maritime Offshore Construction Limited 100 100 Isle of Man International Inspection Services Limited 100 100 Isle of Man Cleopatra Barges Limited 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell plc employee benefit trust 100 Unincorporated Jebel Ali Investments Limited 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell Energy FZCo 90 100 UAE Lamprell Asia Limited incorporated on 14 May 2008 100 100 Thailand The balance of 51% in each case is registered in the name of a UAE National who has assigned all the economic benefits attached to his shareholding to the Group entity.
LEL has the power to exercise control over the financial and operating policies of the entities incorporated in the UAE through management agreements and accordingly, these entities are consolidated as wholly owned subsidiaries in these consolidated financial statements.
The UAE National shareholders of these entities receive sponsorship fees from the Group Note 22.
The beneficiaries of the EBT are the employees of the Group.
A UAE FZCo is required to have a minimum of two shareholders and consequently, the balance of 10% is held by an employee of LEL in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group.
A Thailand registered company is required to have a minimum of three shareholders and consequently, of the total 867,000 shares, two shares are held by employees of the Lamprell Group in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group and the balance of 866,998 shares are held by LE FZCo.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and parent company financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC and the Isle of Man Companies Acts 19312004.
In accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982, the Company has not presented its own income statement.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated and parent company financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 64 Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following new standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2009: IAS 1 revised, Presentation of Financial Statements.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expenses that is non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
Entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present one performance statement: a consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The financial statements have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs effective from 1 January 2009.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
The Group previously recognised all borrowing costs as an expense immediately.
This change in accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23 Revised, Borrowing Costs in accordance with the transition provisions of the standard: comparative figures have not been restated.
The change in accounting policy had no material impact on earnings per share.
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Amendments Reclassification of Financial Assets effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment allows for the reclassification of certain financial assets previously classified as held-for-trading or available-for-sale to another financial asset category under limited circumstances.
Various disclosures are required where a reclassification has been made.
The application of the new amendment does not have any material impact on the Group financial statements.
The amended standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
It clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
These features would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing similar services: they would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant date.
All cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The Group has applied the amendment and it had no material impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures Amendment effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
As the change in accounting policy only results in additional disclosures, there is no impact on earnings per share.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, Segment Reporting.
It requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Directors who make strategic decisions.
Note 5 provides further details and disclosures relating to segment reporting.
The Improvements to IFRSs represents a number of non-urgent changes in standards, basis of conclusions and guidance.
The improvements include changes in presentation, recognition and measurement plus terminology and editorial changes.
These changes have not had a material impact for the Group.
b Standards and amendments that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods, but the Group has not early adopted them: Amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures effective from 1 January 2011.
This amendment is subject to EU endorsement.
The amendment simplifies the definition of a related party and provides a partial exemption from the disclosure requirements for government-related entities.
The Group will adopt the amendment from 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 65 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued b Standards and amendments that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group continued IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations effective from 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs should be expensed.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective from 1 January 2013.
The new standard is still subject to EU endorsement.
The new standard addresses classification and measurement of financial assets.
IFRS 9 replaces the multiple classification models in IAS 39 with a single model that has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
Classification under IFRS 9 is driven by the entitys business model for managing financial assets and the contractual characteristics of the financial assets.
IFRS 9 removes the requirement to separate embedded derivatives from financial asset hosts.
IFRS 9 removes the cost exemption for unquoted equities.
The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement.
Improvements to IFRSs, effective for financial periods beginning on various dates.
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the Improvements to IFRSs 2009 standard which amends 10 standards, basis of conclusions and guidance, and two interpretations based on the exposure drafts issued in October 2007 and August 2008.
The Improvements are subject to EU endorsement.
The Group has reviewed the Improvements to IFRSs, subject to EU endorsement, and anticipates that these will not have a material impact for the Group.
c Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective but currently not relevant to the Group The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods, but not relevant to the Group: IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective from 1 January 2009.
The amended standards require entities to classify puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components of instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation as equity, provided the financial instruments have particular features and meet specific conditions.
The new amendment is currently not applicable to the Group.
IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Amendments Embedded Derivatives effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendments extend the circumstances in which reassessment of whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from a host contract and accounted for as a derivative and whether a reclassification out of the fair value through profit and loss category is permitted.
The new amendments are currently not applicable to the Group.
IFRS 1 Amendment First Time Adoption of IFRS and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009.
The amended IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters to use a deemed cost of either fair value or the carrying amount under previous accounting practice to measure the initial cost of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in the separate financial statements.
The amendment also removes the definition of the cost method from IAS 27 and replaces it with a requirement to present dividends as income in the separate financial statements of the investor.
The amendment is not applicable to the Group as it has already adopted IFRS.
IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive for example, loyalty points or free products, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement using fair values.
IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Groups operations because none of the Groups companies operate any loyalty programmes.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for Construction of Real Estate effective from 1 January 2009.
The interpretation clarifies whether IAS 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, Construction Contracts should be applied to particular transactions.
It is likely to result in IAS 18 being applied to a wider range of transactions.
IFRIC 15 is not relevant to the Groups operation as the Group is not in the business of construction of real estate.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 66 Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued c Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective but currently not relevant to the Group continued IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 16 clarifies the accounting treatment in respect of net investment hedging.
This includes the fact that net investment hedging relates to differences in functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging instruments may be held anywhere in the Group.
The requirements of IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, do apply to the hedged item.
The interpretation is currently not applicable to the Group.
d Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant to the Group IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective from 1 July 2009.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill on acquisitions from non-controlling interests or gains and losses on disposals to non-controlling interests.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group will apply IAS 27 revised prospectively to transactions with non-controlling interests from 1 January 2010.
The revision is currently not applicable to the Group, as there are no non-controlling interests.
Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues effective from 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues rights, options or warrants that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Previously such rights issues were accounted for as derivative liabilities.
However, the amendment requires that, provided certain conditions are met, such rights are classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
The amendment is currently not applicable to the Group.
IAS 39 Amendment Eligible hedged items, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective from 1 July 2009.
This amendment to IAS 39 clarifies how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portions of cash flows is eligible for designation as a hedged item or items should be applied.
IFRS 1 Revised, First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards effective from 1 July 2009.
The current IFRS 1 has been amended many times to accommodate first time adoption requirements of new and amended IFRSs, resulting in a more complex and less clear standard.
This revised version retains the substance of the original standard but with a changed structure.
The revised IFRS 1 is not applicable to the Group as it has already adopted IFRS.
Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for First-Time Adopters effective from 1 January 2010.
The amendment is subject to EU endorsement.
The amendment introduces additional exemptions for entities that are transitioning to IFRS.
IFRS 2 Amendment Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions effective from 1 January 2010.
The amendment is still subject to EU endorsement.
The amendment clarifies the scope and the accounting for Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the separate financial statements of the entity receiving the goods or services when that entity has no obligation to settle the share-based payment transactions.
The amendment also incorporates the guidance contained in IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11.
As a result the IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11 have been withdrawn.
The amendment is currently not applicable to the Group as the Group does not have any cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
The amendment removes an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14 related to voluntary pension prepayments when there is a minimum funding requirement.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective from 1 July 2009.
This interpretation applies to transactions in which an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
The IFRIC also clarifies when an entity should recognise a dividend payable, i. e. when the dividend is appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 67 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued d Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant to the Group continued IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers effective from 1 July 2009.
This interpretation applies to agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment or an amount of cash which must be used to construct or acquire an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services, or do both.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective from 1 July 2010.
IFRIC 19 requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss when a liability is settled through the issuance of the entitys own equity instruments.
The Interpretation is still subject to EU endorsement.
2.2 Revenue recognition a Contract revenue Contract revenue is recognised under the  method.
When the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised by reference to the proportion that accumulated costs up to the year end bear to the estimated total costs of the contract.
When the contract is at an early stage and its outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred up to the year end which are considered recoverable.
Revenue related to variation orders is recognised when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation can be reliably measured.
A claim is recognised as contract revenue when settled or when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount can be measured reliably.
Losses on contracts are assessed on an individual contract basis and provision is made for the full amount of the anticipated losses, including any losses relating to future work on a contract, in the period in which the loss is first foreseen.
The aggregate of the costs incurred and the profit loss recognised on each contract is compared against progress billings at the year end.
Where the sum of the costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss exceeds the progress billings, the balance is shown under trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Where the progress billings exceed the sum of costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss, the balance is shown under trade and other payables as amounts due to customers on contracts.
In determining contract costs incurred up to the year end, any amounts incurred relating to future activity on a contract are excluded and are presented as contract work-in-progress.
b Inspection services Revenue from inspection services is recognised when the services have been rendered: the customer has accepted the service and the collectability of the related receivable are reasonably assured.
c Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest rate method.
2.3 Consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group, except for acquisitions involving entities under common control, which are accounted for using the uniting of interests method.
The cost of an acquisition under the purchase method is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination under the purchase method are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 68 Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.3 Consolidation continued The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the Groups share of the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall within the scope of IFRS 3.
Consequently, the Directors have a responsibility to determine a suitable accounting policy.
The Directors have decided to follow the uniting of interests method for accounting for business combinations involving entities under common control.
Under the uniting of interests method, there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities and hence no goodwill is created as balances remain at book value.
Consolidated financial statements include the profit or loss and cash flows for the entire year pre and post merger as if the subsidiary had always been part of the Group.
The aim is to show the combination as if it had always been combined.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed or adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.4 Investment in subsidiaries In the Companys separate financial statements, the investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Cost is the amount of cash paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire the investment.
Income from such investments is recognised only to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the investee company arising after the date of acquisition.
Distributions received in excess of such profit i. e. from pre-acquisition reserves are regarded as a recovery of investment and are recognised as a reduction of the cost of the investment.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Groups activities are primarily carried out from the UAE and its currency the UAE Dirham, which is pegged to the US Dollar, is the functional currency of all the entities in the Group except LAL whose functional currency is the Thailand Baht and the EBT whose functional currency is the British Pound.
The consolidated and parent company financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is the purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets as follows: Years Buildings 1020 Operating equipment 310 Fixtures and office equipment 35 Motor vehicles 5 The assets residual values, if significant, and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost.
When commissioned, capital work-in-progress is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated in accordance with Group policies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amounts and are taken into account in determining operating profit.
2.7 Intangible assets Intangible assets representing operating leasehold rights are carried at cost being the fair value on the date of acquisition where intangibles are acquired in a business combination less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the leasehold right over its estimated useful life 17 years.
2.8 Inventories Inventories comprise raw materials and consumables which are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average basis and comprises direct purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
2.9 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within general and administrative expenses others.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses others in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2.10 Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 70 Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.11 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
2.12 Employee benefits a Provision for staff benefits A provision is made for the estimated liability for employees entitlements to annual leave and related benefits as a result of services rendered by the employees up to the balance sheet date.
Provision is also made, using actuarial techniques, for the end of service benefits due to employees in accordance with the UAE Labour Law for their periods of service up to the balance sheet date.
The provision relating to annual leave and leave passage is disclosed as a current liability and included in trade and other payables, while that relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in assumptions are charged or credited in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
b Share based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of shares options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to Retained earnings.
The Company has granted rights to its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary companies conditional upon the completion of continuing service with the Group for a specified period.
The total amount of the grant over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is recognised in each period as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
In the separate financial statements of the subsidiary, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments of the Company i. e. parent is recognised as an expense with a corresponding credit to Equity.
2.13 Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current accounts with banks less margin deposits, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturity of less than three months and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.15 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the repayment value is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
The Group previously recognised all borrowing costs as an expense.
2.16 Dividend distribution Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups consolidated and parent company financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders.
2.17 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decisionmaker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and accessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Directors that make strategic decisions.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.18 Taxation The Company, which is incorporated in the Isle of Man is taxable at 0% in the Isle of Man.
The Group is subject to income tax in respect of its operations through LAL in Thailand which was incorporated in May 2008.
However, LAL has been granted the Investment promotion certificate effective 25 November 2008 which exempts LAL from Corporate Income Tax on net profit derived from the promoted activity for a period of eight years.
The Group is not currently subject to income tax in respect of its operations carried out in the UAE.
2.19 Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
Currently, the Group does not have any held to maturity and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
The Group has not classified any derivatives as hedges in a hedging relationship.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within other losses gains net in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade receivables Note 2.9, other receivables excluding prepayments and cash and cash equivalents Note 2.14 in the Group balance sheet and amounts due from related parties Note 22 and cash at bank Note 23 in the Company balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
The amortised cost is computed using the effective interest method.
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the counterparty have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of the ownership.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
2.20 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts e. g. sales contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The fair value of the resulting embedded forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 72 Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.21 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Any material impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and separately disclosed.
2.22 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
3 Financial risk management 3.1 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are evaluated by management on an ongoing basis to assess and manage critical exposures.
The Groups liquidity and market risks are managed as part of the Groups treasury activities.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of established policies and procedures.
a Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group does not have any significant foreign currency exposure, as the majority of the revenue and purchases are denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams which is pegged to the US Dollar.
b Market risk cash flow interest rate risk The Group holds its surplus funds in short-term bank deposits.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, if interest rates on deposits had been 0.5% higher lower, the interest income would have been higher lower by USD 293,000 2008: USD 549,000.
The Group does not have any long-term borrowings and does not have significant interest rate risk exposure on bank overdrafts and revolving term facilities.
c Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is detailed in Notes 15, 20 and 23.
The Group has a policy for dealing with customers with an appropriate credit history.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks, and trade receivables.
The Group has a formal procedure of monitoring and follow up of customers for outstanding receivables.
For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
The Group assesses internally the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had a significant concentration of credit risk with nine of its largest customer balances accounting for 82% 2008: 85% of trade receivables outstanding at that date.
Management believes that this concentration of credit risk is mitigated as the Group has long-standing relationships with these customers.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 73 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 3 Financial risk management continued 3.1 Financial risk factors continued c Credit risk continued The table below shows the rating and balance of the 13 major counterparties at the balance sheet date.
2009 2008 || External External Counterparty rating USD000 rating USD000 Bank A AA 5,281 AA 29,821 Bank B A 5,153 AA 61,454 Bank C A 734 A 4,756 Bank D A 56,283 A 1,592 67,451 97,623 Based on Standard & Poors Fitch long-term ratings.
2009 2008 || Internal Internal rating USD000 rating USD000 Customer 1 Group A 60,000 Group B 70,666 Customer 2 Group A 11,535 Group B 8,480 Customer 3 Group C 6,247 Group A 4,662 Customer 4 Group B 5,189 Group A 4,303 Customer 5 Group C 3,459 Group C 3,284 Customer 6 Group B 3,330 Group B 3,116 Customer 7 Group A 3,283 Group C 3,090 Customer 8 Group B 3,078 Group B 2,773 Customer 9 Group C 2,773 Group A 2,678 98,894 103,052 Refer to Note 15 for the description of internal ratings.
The above counterparties in 2009 are not necessarily the same counterparties in 2008.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties, except for one customer with a balance of USD 2.8 million at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 which has been fully provided for.
d Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
Due to the nature of the underlying business and through progress billings, the Group maintains adequate bank balances to fund its operations.
Management monitors the forecast of the Groups liquidity position on the basis of expected cash flow.
The Group is currently financed from Shareholders equity and borrowings.
All contractual commitments for financial liabilities are due within 12 months from the balance sheet date.
3.2 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
Total capital for the Group and the Company is calculated as total equity as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet and in the Company balance sheet respectively.
Presently, the Group has a dividend policy which takes into account the Groups capital requirements, cash flows and earnings.
At the balance sheet date the Group has no net debt and was therefore ungeared.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 74 Financial statements 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Revenue recognition The Group uses the  method in accounting for its contract revenue.
Use of the  method requires the Group to estimate the stage of completion of the contract to date as a proportion of the total contract work to be performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2.
As a result, the Group is required to estimate the total cost to completion of all outstanding projects at each period end.
The application of a 10% sensitivity to management estimates of the total costs to completion of all outstanding projects at the year end would result in the revenue and profit increasing by USD 4.7 million 2008: USD 14 million if the total costs to completion are decreased by 10% and the revenue and profit decreasing by USD 4.4 million 2008: USD 12.9 million if the total costs to completion are increased by 10%.
Employees end of service benefits The rate used for discounting the employees post employment defined benefit obligation should be based on market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds should be used.
In the UAE, there is no deep market either for corporate or government bonds and therefore, the discount rate has been estimated using the US AA-rated corporate bond market as a proxy.
On this basis, the discount rate applied was 5.75% 2008: 6%.
If the discount rate used was to differ by 0.5 points from managements estimates, the carrying amount of the employees end of the service benefits provision at the balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 0.5 million 2008: USD 0.4 million lower or USD 0.5 million 2008: USD 0.6 million higher.
5 Segment information Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decisionmaker.
The Executive Directors review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The Executive Directors consider the business mainly on the basis of the facilities from where the services are rendered.
Management considers the performance of the business from Sharjah SHJ, Hamriyah HAM, Jebel Ali JBA and Thailand THL in addition to the performance of Oil Field Engineering OFE and Inspec.
SHJ, HAM, JBA and OFE meet all the aggregation criteria required by IFRS 8 and are reported as a single segment Segment A.
Services provided from Inspec and THL do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, and the results of these operations are included in the all other segments column.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, including FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures, oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
Inspec derives its revenue from various services such as non-destructive pipeline testing, ultrasonic testing and heat treatment.
THL derives its revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector and other offshore structures.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 75 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 5 Segment information continued All other Segment A segments Total USD000 USD000 USD000 Year ended 31 December 2009 Total segment revenue 406,425 20,232 426,657 Inter-segment revenue 1,139 1,139 Revenue from external customers 406,425 19,093 425,518 Gross operating profit 75,973 5,927 81,900 Year ended 31 December 2008 Total segment revenue 728,734 14,477 743,211 Inter-segment revenue 933 1,447 2,380 Revenue from external customers 727,801 13,030 740,831 Gross operating profit 159,700 4,239 163,939 Sales between segments are carried out on agreed terms.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Executive Directors is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Executive Directors assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of gross profit.
The staff, equipment and certain subcontract costs are measured based on standard cost.
The measurement basis excludes the effect of the common expenses for yard rent, repairs and maintenance and other miscellaneous expenses.
The reconciliation of the gross profit is provided as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Gross operating profit for the reportable segments as reported to the Executive Directors 75,973 159,700 Gross operating profit for other segments as reported to the Executive Directors 5,927 4,239 Unallocated: Under-absorbed employee and equipment costs 9,913 16,379 Repairs and maintenance 4,494 8,668 Yard rent 3,343 1,268 Others 2,301 8,321 Gross profit 61,849 129,303 Selling and distribution expenses 1,322 1,874 General and administrative expenses 30,266 46,598 Other losses gains net 2,358 1,631 Interest expense 925 Interest income 1,445 2,993 Profit for the year 28,423 85,455 Information about segment assets and liabilities is not reported to or used by the Executive Directors and accordingly, no measures of segment assets and liabilities are reported.
Breakdown of the revenue from all the services is as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 New build activities 226,461 385,589 Upgrade and refurbishment activities 146,235 250,995 Offshore construction 37,921 91,217 Other services 14,901 13,030 425,518 740,831 The entity is domiciled in the UAE.
The total revenue from external customers in respect of services performed in the UAE is USD 404 million 2008: USD 741 million, and the total revenue from external customers from other countries is USD 22 million 2008: USD Nil.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 76 Financial statements 5 Segment information continued Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups revenue, shown in the table below: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 External customer A 118,128 184,058 External customer B 63,207 168,681 External customer C 47,196 228,531 352,739 The revenue from these customers is attributable to Segment A.
The above customers in 2009 are not necessarily the same customers in 2008.
6 Cost of sales 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Materials and related costs 125,257 254,969 Staff costs Note 10 92,719 100,507 Sub-contract costs 91,460 162,126 Sub-contract labour 13,375 36,326 Depreciation Note 16 9,238 6,891 Equipment hire 6,882 16,502 Repairs and maintenance 5,085 9,134 Yard rent 3,425 1,307 Others 16,228 23,766 363,669 611,528 7 Selling and distribution expenses 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Advertisement and marketing 592 512 Entertainment 171 172 Travel 376 802 Others 183 388 1,322 1,874 8 General and administrative expenses share-based payments 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Proportionate amount of share based charge for the year: relating to shares gifted granted in 2006 5,301 relating to deferred share award in 2006 1,331 relating to free share plan 1,791 1,337 relating to executive share option plan 150 90 1,941 8,059 Shares gifted granted in 2006 On 10 October 2006, LHL agreed with selected Directors and management personnel of the Group to gift a total of 9,311,996 shares of Lamprell plc.
The fair value, computed based on the Companys share price on 11 October 2006 1.95, amounted to USD 33.9 million.
The vesting of these shares was conditional upon the continued employment of the Director management personnel concerned and these shares accrue dividends which are also transferred to employees on vesting.
In the event of the vesting condition not being satisfied by the employees, the respective shares and the accumulated dividend revert to LHL.
As part of the arrangements, 3,266,414 shares vested immediately in 2006, 2,212,721 shares vested during 2007 and the balance 3,832,861 shares vested in 2008.
During 2008, a charge of USD 5.3 million was recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings.
This included a charge recognised in the statement of comprehensive income of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 3.1 million.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 77 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 8 General and administrative expenses share-based payments continued Deferred share award in 2006 On 16 October 2006, the Company also granted a Director a deferred share award that gives him an entitlement to receive a certain number of shares equivalent to USD 3 million at no cost.
The award, subject to the satisfaction of a performance target and continued employment, will normally vest in three equal tranches on the announcement of the Companys final results for each of the financial years ended 31 December 2007, 2008 and 2009.
The performance target related to the growth in the Companys earnings per share.
The number of shares awarded under this scheme, computed based on the Companys share price on 11 October 2006 1.95, was 828,689.
The performance target for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 was achieved and, following the announcement of the Companys final results in March 2008, one third of the shares 276,230 shares vested and was issued to the Director, along with 3,079 shares relating to the dividend entitlement on those shares Note 24.
In accordance with the terms of the award, the balance of 552,459 shares vested on 1 January 2009 following the resignation of the Director as he was considered a good leaver and were issued out of treasury shares together with 24,385 shares relating to the dividend entitlement on those shares.
Accordingly, in 2008, the Group and Company each recognised a charge of USD 1.3 million in the statement of comprehensive income with the corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
Free share plan The Company awarded shares to selected Directors, key management personnel and employees under the free share plan that provides an entitlement to receive these shares at no cost.
These free shares are conditional on the Directors key management personnel employee completing a specified period of service the vesting period.
The award does not have any performance conditions and does not entitle participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period except for 92,725 shares awarded to two Directors during 2008 which entitles them to dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
The fair value of the share awards made under this plan is based on the share price at the date of the grant less the value of the dividends foregone during the vesting period.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows: Expected Number Vesting Fair value withdrawal Grant date of shares period per share rate 2007 16 May 2007 99,365 18 months 3.16 5% 2008 10 January 2008 99,337 24 months 4.00 5% 7 April 2008 25,301 24 months 3.96 5% 27 April 2008 123,620 18 months 4.28 5% 20 May 2008 70,000 36 months 5.08 5% 318,258 2009 22 January 2009 600,000 24 months 0.89 5% 15 April 2009 763,052 18 months 0.94 5% 1,363,052 In addition, 18,241 shares which vested immediately were issued to an employee during the year following his resignation as he was considered a good leaver.
Accordingly, a charge of USD 1,791,000 2008: USD 1,337,000 is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the statement of comprehensive income of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 0.2 million 2008: USD 0.2 million.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 78 Financial statements 8 General and administrative expenses share-based payments continued Free share plan continued An analysis of the number of shares gifted granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below: Number of shares Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2008 4,754,042 Shares gifted under free share plan 318,258 Shares vested and released out of shares gifted by LHL 3,825,989 Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares 85,294 Shares vested and new shares issued 276,230 Shares lapsed during the year due to non satisfaction of vesting conditions 14,070 Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2008 870,717 Shares gifted under free share plan 1,381,293 Shares relating to dividend entitlement on deferred share award 24,385 Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares 724,251 Shares lapsed during the year due to non satisfaction of vesting conditions 34,996 Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2009 1,517,148 The shares are expected to vest as follows: Number of shares Year 2009 2008 2009 694,320 2010 847,148 106,397 2011 670,000 70,000 1,517,148 870,717 Executive share option plan Share options are granted by the Company to certain employees under the executive share option plan.
This option plan does not entitle the employees to dividends.
These options are conditional on the employee completing three years of service the vesting period and hence the options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date and have a contracted option term of 10 years.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
The movement in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise price are as follows: Average exercise price in per share Options Vesting date Expiry date At 1 January 2008 and 2009 3.22 105,369 16 May 2010 16 May 2017 Granted in 2009 0.57 550,000 31 March 2012 31 March 2019 Forfeited in 2009 3.22 19,585 At 31 December 2009 0.93 635,784 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year determined using a binomial valuation model was 0.28 per option.
The significant inputs into the model were an average share price for a period of one year immediately preceding the grant date of 2.91, an exercise price of 0.57, volatility of 50%, dividend yield of 3.31%, an expected option term of 10 years, an annual risk-free interest rate of 3.28% and a withdrawal rate of 5% per annum.
The risk free rate is derived from the yield on UK Government Bonds as detailed by the Bank of England, using a 10 year maturity in line with the life of the option.
The volatility assumption is based on an analysis of the historic daily share price volatility of the Company since its listing date, capped at 50%.
A charge of USD 150,000 2008: USD 90,000 is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the statement of comprehensive income of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 73,000 2008: USD 17,000.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 79 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 9 General and administrative expenses others 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Staff costs Note 10 15,977 21,312 Utilities and communication 2,409 2,348 Depreciation Note 16 3,948 2,865 Others 5,991 12,014 28,325 38,539 Other expenses for the prior year included an amount of USD 3.4 million incurred mainly towards various legal and professional charges in connection with the admission of Lamprell plc to the official list of the LSE and a provision for doubtful debts of USD 2.8 million Notes 14 and 20.
10 Staff costs 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Wages and salaries 59,647 73,631 Employees end of service benefits Note 28 3,173 5,300 Share based payments value of services provided Note 8 1,941 8,059 Other benefits 45,876 42,888 110,637 129,878 Staff costs are included in: Cost of sales Note 6 92,719 100,507 General and administrative expenses share based payments Note 8 1,941 8,059 General and administrative expenses others Note 9 15,977 21,312 110,637 129,878 Number of employees at 31 December 4,515 5,447 Directors remuneration comprises: Share based payments value of Post Allowances services employment Salary Fees & benefits Bonus provided benefits Total Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Executive Directors Nigel McCue 387 112 204 14 717 1,013 Peter Whitbread 373 117 667 54 1,211 5,256 Scott Doak 331 145 115 35 626 1,048 David Moran 34 34 3,510 Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Silver 139 139 68 Colin Goodall 135 135 20 Richard Raynaut 76 76 83 Brian Fredrick 66 66 Peter Birch 12 12 175 Nigel McCue 30 1,091 428 408 667 319 103 3,016 11,203 Appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2009 and served as Chief Operating Officer with effect from 16 May 2008 following resignation as a NonExecutive Director.
Appointed as Director of International Development on 1 May 2009 and served as Chief Executive Officer until 1 May 2009.
Appointed as a Director on 4 July 2006 and served as Chief Operating Officer until 15 May 2008 and resigned with effect from 1 January 2009.
Appointed as Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009 and has served as a Non-Executive Director since 24 August 2007.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 September 2008.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2009.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 7 July 2006 and resigned with effect from 19 December 2008.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 80 Financial statements 10 Staff costs continued The emoluments of the highest paid Director were USD 1.2 million 2008: USD 5.3 million and these principally comprised salary, benefits and bonus and share based payments in 2008.
The bonus of USD 0.7 million was paid in respect of an agreement to remain as the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
11 Dividends During the year on 27 March 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 6.3 million US cents 3.15 per share relating to 2008.
At 31 December 2009, the unpaid dividend amounted to USD 34,000 Note 29.
During 2008, on 25 March 2008 and 26 September 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 37.3 million comprising USD 24.5 million US cents 12.25 per share relating to 2007 and an interim dividend of USD 12.8 million US cents 6.40 per share for 2008.
At 31 December 2008, unpaid dividends amounted to USD 9,000 Note 29.
12 Other losses gains net 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Fair value loss on financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Note 21 2,500 Fair value gain on derivative financial instruments net 192 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 33 5 Insurance reimbursement for damages to property, plant and equipment and inventory 833 Others 109 611 2,358 1,631 13 Earnings per share a Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares Notes 8 and 24. b Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the free share awards, options under executive share option plan and deferred share award, a calculation is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share awards options.
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share awards options.
2009 2008 USD000 USD000 The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following profit and numbers of shares: Profit for the year 28,423 85,455 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 199,105,090 200,010,565 Adjustments for: Assumed exercise of free share awards 843,477 75,778 Assumed exercise of options under the executive share option plan 199,030 Assumed vesting of deferred share awards 576,844 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 200,147,597 200,663,187 Earnings per share: Basic 14.28c 42.73c Diluted 14.20c 42.59c Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 81 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 14 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Depreciation 13,186 9,756 Auditors remuneration audit services 419 419 Auditors remuneration non-audit services readmission to the LSE 677 Auditors remuneration taxation and other services 21 37 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 18,849 9,988 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 101 2,778 Release of provision for impairment of trade receivables Note 20 1 37 100 2,741 15 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Group Assets at fair value Loans and through receivables profit or loss Total USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2009 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,500 2,500 Trade receivables 118,204 118,204 Other receivables excluding prepayments 4,193 4,193 Cash and bank balances 67,842 67,842 Total 190,239 2,500 192,739 Assets at fair value Loans and through receivables profit or loss Total USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2008 Derivative financial instruments 50 50 Trade receivables 117,729 117,729 Other receivables excluding prepayments 4,381 4,381 Cash and bank balances 97,824 97,824 Total 219,934 50 219,984 Derivative financial instruments in 2008 represents an embedded derivative arising in respect of a sale contract Note 2.20.
Liabilities at amortised cost 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Trade payables 53,035 83,778 Other payables and accruals 51,358 105,552 Borrowings 31,628 11,924 Total 136,021 201,254 Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 82 Financial statements 15 Financial instruments by category continued Company Loans and receivables 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank 107 125 Due from related parties 19,193 22,837 Total 19,300 22,962 Liabilities at amortised cost 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Other payables and accruals 562 2,490 Credit quality of financial assets Group The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to historical information about counterparty default rates: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Trade receivables Group A 79,547 6,648 Group B 10,557 15,706 Group C 4,621 4,116 94,725 26,470 Derivative financial assets Group A 50 Group A Last six months average debtor days is less than 45.
Group B Last six months average debtor days is between 46 and 90.
Group C Last six months average debtor days is above 90.
None of the financial assets that is fully performing has been renegotiated in the last year.
2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits Standard & Poor Fitch ratings AA 5,281 AA 29,821 AA- 41 61,470 A 5,887 4,756 A 56,283 1,592 A 7 BBB 208 67,700 97,646 Cash in hand 142 178 Cash at bank and on hand 67,842 97,824 Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 83 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 15 Financial instruments by category continued Company 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Due from related parties 19,193 22,837 Due from related parties is neither past due nor impaired.
The remaining lives of the leases range between three to seven years.
The Group has renewed these land leases, upon expiry, in the past and its present intention is to continue to use the land and renew these leases for the foreseeable future.
A depreciation expense of USD 9,238,000 2008: USD 6,891,000 has been charged to cost of sales and USD 3,948,000 2008: USD 2,865,000 to general and administrative expenses others Notes 6 and 9.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 84 Financial statements 17 Intangible asset The intangible asset represents a favourable operating leasehold right acquired upon the acquisition of JIL and LE FZCo in 2007.
The value of the intangible asset has been determined by calculating the present value of the expected future economic benefits to arise from the favourable lease term 17 years.
USD000 Cost At 1 January 2008, 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2009 1,534 Amortisation At 1 January 2008 44 Charge for the year 90 At 31 December 2008 134 Charge for the year 90 At 31 December 2009 224 Net book amount At 31 December 2009 1,310 At 31 December 2008 1,400 18 Investment in subsidiaries 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Balance at 1 January 746,779 743,314 Effect of share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries under IFRIC 11 1,622 3,465 748,401 746,779 The Company granted free shares share options to employees of its subsidiaries under various plans Note 8.
These shares and options have a vesting period of 18 to 36 months.
Accordingly, the proportionate share-based charge for the year of USD 1.6 million 2008: USD 3.5 million has been recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
19 Inventories 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Raw materials and consumables 43,809 11,494 Goods in transit 9,554 Less: Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 749 542 43,060 20,506 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in contract costs amounted to USD 14.8 million 2008: USD 22.4 million.
In the opinion of the Directors, the replacement cost of the inventories does not differ significantly from its carrying value.
20 Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Trade receivables 120,999 120,517 Other receivables and prepayments 10,715 16,385 Advances to suppliers 4,492 22,239 136,206 159,141 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables 2,795 2,788 133,411 156,353 Amounts due from customers on contracts 16,389 103,846 Contract work in progress Note 2.2 43,976 29,613 193,776 289,812 Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 85 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 20 Trade and other receivables continued Amounts due from customers on contracts comprise: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Costs incurred to date 209,337 426,803 Attributable profits 53,601 112,237 262,938 539,040 Less: Progress billings 246,549 435,194 16,389 103,846 An analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Fully performing 94,725 26,470 Past due but not impaired 23,479 91,259 Impaired 2,795 2,788 120,999 120,517 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are generally not considered impaired.
As of 31 December 2009, trade receivables of USD 23.5 million 2008: USD 91.3 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Up to 3 months 17,335 84,318 3 to 6 months 4,953 6,117 Over 6 months 1,191 824 23,479 91,259 At 31 December 2009, trade receivables of USD 2.8 million 2008: USD 2.8 million were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers who are in an unexpectedly difficult economic situation.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Up to 3 months 2,772 Over 6 months 2,795 16 2,795 2,788 Group The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are primarily denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is pegged to the US Dollar.
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 2,788 87 Provision for receivables impairment Note 14 101 2,778 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 93 40 Unused amounts reversed Note 14 1 37 At 31 December 2,795 2,788 Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 86 Financial statements 20 Trade and other receivables continued The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in general and administrative expenses others in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Note 9.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
With respect to a receivable from one customer amounting to USD 60 million 2008: USD 71 million, the Group retains ownership of the new build unit under construction and the related procured materials.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
21 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Unlisted equity security 2,500 On 27 November 2009, LEL subscribed for 28 million shares in BassDrill amounting to USD 5 million at the subscription price of USD 0.1786 per share.
LEL entered into an option agreement with certain shareholders of BassDrill granting LEL the option to sell the BassDrill shares after 12 months at an option price of USD 0.0893 plus three month LIBOR 3% per annum.
Further LEL also granted certain shareholders of BassDrill the option to purchase the BassDrill shares held by LEL in the period starting from the date of issuance and ending after 24 months at an option price of USD 0.1786 plus three month LIBOR 3% per annum.
During the year a fair value loss of USD 2.5 million was recorded in other losses gains net Note 12 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income based on managements estimate of the carrying value.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented within operating activities as part of changes in working capital in the consolidated cash flow statement.
22 Related party balances and transactions Related parties comprise LHL which owns 33% of the issued share capital of the Company, certain legal shareholders of the Group companies, Directors and key management personnel of the Group.
Related parties for the purpose of the parent company financial statements also include subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly.
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group entered into the following significant transactions during the year with related parties at prices and on terms agreed between the related parties: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Key management compensation 5,946 16,482 Sponsorship fees paid to legal shareholders of LD and LS Note 1 141 139 Key management compensation comprises: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 4,621 10,868 Share-based payments value of services provided 1,007 5,064 Post-employment benefits 318 550 5,946 16,482 Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 87 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 22 Related party balances and transactions continued Due from related parties 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Company LEL receivable in respect of management fees charged by the Company 17,202 20,504 EBT 1,991 2,333 19,193 22,837 Includes USD 1,810,926 2008: USD 2,328,296 due in respect of payments made for treasury shares acquired by EBT on behalf of the Group.
Further, the Company has provided performance guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary.
These guarantees, issued in the normal course of business, are outstanding at the year end and no outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in relation to these guarantees is expected by the Company.
Dividends paid by the Company include an amount of USD 2.2 million 2008: 13.1 million in respect of shares held by key management personnel including those held by the EBT in respect of shares gifted of which USD 2.1 million 2008: 12.3 million was paid to LHL, a company controlled by Steven Lamprell who is a member of key management.
23 Cash and bank balances Group 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank and on hand 18,336 21,112 Short-term and margin deposits 49,506 76,712 Cash and bank balances 67,842 97,824 Less: Margin deposits 5,673 6,368 Less: Deposit with original maturity of more than three months 3,847 Less: Bank overdrafts Note 30 9,081 1,231 Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purpose 49,241 90,225 At 31 December 2009 and 2008, the cash at bank and short-term deposits were held with seven banks.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 2.46% 2008: 2.79% per annum.
These deposits have an average maturity of seven days to three months with the exception of one deposit of USD 3.8 million which has been placed for four months.
The margin deposits with the bank are held under lien against guarantees issued Note 33.
Company Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held with one bank.
24 Share capital Issued and fully paid ordinary shares Company Equity share capital Number USD000 At 1 January 2008 200,000,000 18,654 Issued on 26 March 2008 in connection with a deferred share award granted on 16 October 2006 Note 8 279,309 28 At 31 December 2008 and 2009 200,279,309 18,682 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 400 million shares 2008: 400 million shares with a par value of 5 pence per share 2008: 5 pence per share.
On 26 March 2008, the Company issued 279,309 shares at a nominal value of 0.05 per share by debiting the Retained earnings.
These shares, which include 3,079 shares relating to dividend entitlement, were issued to a Director of the Company, following the satisfactory fulfilment of the vesting condition, set out in the deferred share award granted on 16 October 2006 Note 8.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 88 Financial statements 24 Share capital continued During 2009, EBT acquired 1,391,253 shares 2008: 754,551 shares of the Company.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was USD 1.7 million 2008: USD 2.6 million and has been deducted from the Consolidated Retained earnings.
Of the above, 724,251 shares 2008: 85,294 shares amounting to USD 2.2 million 2008: USD 0.3 million were issued to employees on vesting of the free shares and 1,336,259 shares 2008: 669,257 shares are held as treasury shares at 31 December 2009.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date.
These shares will be issued on the vesting of the free shares share options granted to certain employees of the Group Note 8.
25 Legal reserve The Legal reserve of USD 31,436 2008: USD 29,436 relates to subsidiaries incorporated as limited liability companies in the UAE.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the respective subsidiaries and the UAE Federal Law No.
8 of 1984, as amended, 10% of the profit for the year of such companies is transferred to a Legal reserve.
Such transfers are required to be made until the reserve is equal to, at least, 50% of the issued share capital of such companies.
During the year, an amount of USD 2,000 2008: USD 5,359 was transferred to the Legal reserve.
26 Other reserve The Other reserve of USD 708,852,000 represents the difference between the cost of the investment in LEL USD 727,506,000 and the nominal value of Share capital issued by the Company to acquire LEL USD 18,654,000.
The Other reserve is not available for distribution.
27 Merger reserve 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Nominal value of shares of the Company 18,654 18,654 Share capital of LEL 82 82 Merger reserve on acquisition of LEL 18,572 18,572 Purchase consideration relating to acquisition of Inspec 4,000 4,000 Share capital of Inspec 150 150 Merger reserve on acquisition of Inspec 3,850 3,850 Total 22,422 22,422 On 11 September 2006, LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL for a consideration of USD 4 million.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the purchase consideration USD 4 million and the share capital of Inspec USD 150,000 has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it acquired 100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200 million shares of the Company.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by the Company USD 18,654,000 and the nominal value of LEL shares acquired USD 82,000 has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
28 Provision for employees end of service benefits In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations at 31 December 2009 and 2008, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employees expected service life with the Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 89 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 28 Provision for employees end of service benefits continued The movement in the employees end of service benefit liability over the year is as follows: Group 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 14,329 9,740 Current service cost 2,762 2,293 Interest cost 960 707 Actuarial gains losses 384 2,300 Curtailments 165 Benefits paid 2,352 711 At 31 December 15,150 14,329 Company 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 758 551 Current service cost 30 53 Interest cost 17 29 Actuarial losses 56 125 Benefits paid 269 At 31 December 592 758 The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: Group 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Current service cost 2,762 2,293 Interest cost 960 707 Actuarial gains losses 384 2,300 Gain on curtailments 165 Total included in staff costs Note 10 3,173 5,300 Of the total charge, USD 2.6 million 2008: USD 4.1 million and USD 0.6 million 2008: USD 1.2 million are included in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses others respectively.
Company 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Current service cost 30 53 Interest cost 17 29 Actuarial losses 56 125 Total included in staff costs 103 207 The above charge of USD 0.1 million 2008: USD 0.2 million is included in general and administrative expenses others.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 90 Financial statements 28 Provision for employees end of service benefits continued The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.75% 6.00% Future salary increase: Management and administrative employees 5.00% 5.00% Yard employees 4.00% 4.00% Due to the nature of the benefit, which is a lump-sum payable on exit for any cause, a combined single decrement rate has been used as follows: Percentage of employees at each age exiting the plan per year Age 2009 2008 Management, yard and administrative employees: Below 20 years: 0% 0% 2029 years 15% 15% 3039 years 10% 10% 4059 years 7% 7% 60 years and above 100% 100% Executive directors: 4064 years 7% 7% 65 years and above 100% 100% 29 Trade and other payables 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Trade payables 53,035 83,778 Other payables and accruals 51,358 105,552 Amounts due to customers on contracts 20,183 72,479 Advances received for contract work 1,621 Dividend payable Note 11 34 9 124,610 263,439 Amounts due to customers on contracts comprise: Progress billings 250,892 375,806 Less: Cost incurred to date 213,733 247,401 Less: Attributable profits 16,976 55,926 20,183 72,479 The dividend payable represents an amount held by the EBT in respect of treasury shares.
This dividend will be paid by the EBT to the employees upon completion of the vesting period.
30 Borrowings 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Bank overdrafts 9,081 1,231 Revolving facilities 22,547 10,693 31,628 11,924 The bank facilities relating to overdrafts and revolving facilities carry interest at one to three months LIBOR EIBOR 2.0% to 3.5%.
The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to their fair value and are denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is pegged to the US Dollar.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 91 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 31 Profit of the Company The profit of USD 6,579,000 2008: USD 37,444,000 in respect of the Company has been included in these consolidated financial statements.
32 Commitments a Operating lease commitments The Group leases land and staff accommodation under various operating lease agreements.
The remaining lease terms of the majority of the leases are between seven to 24 years and are renewable at mutually agreed terms.
The future minimum lease payments payable under operating leases are as follows: 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Not later than one year 7,826 6,063 Later than one year but not later than five years 13,019 14,001 Later than five years 33,728 36,321 54,573 56,385 b Other commitments 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Letters of credit for purchase of materials and operating equipment 13,285 11,326 Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment 929 3,215 Capital commitments for construction of facilities 18,262 25,413 33 Bank guarantees 2009 2008 USD000 USD000 Performance bid bonds 112,319 135,903 Advance payment, labour visa and payment guarantees 5,882 14,147 118,201 150,050 The various bank guarantees, as above, were issued by the Groups bankers in the ordinary course of business.
Certain guarantees are secured by 100% cash margins, assignments of receivables from some customers and, in respect of guarantees provided by banks to the Group companies, they have been secured by parent company guarantees.
In the opinion of the Directors, the above bank guarantees are unlikely to result in any liability to the Group.
34 Events after balance sheet date The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a dividend of 3.80 cents per share amounting to USD 7.6 million at a meeting held on 26 March 2010.
In accordance with the accounting policy under IFRS set out at Note 2.16, this dividend has not been accrued at 31 December 2009 2009: 3.15 cents per share amounting to USD 6.3 million declared on 27 March 2009 was not accrued at 31 December 2008.
In the prior year, this was not in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 2004 which required such a proposed dividend to be accrued at the balance sheet date.
However, following the Isle of Man Companies Amendment Act 2009 the law has been amended such that proposed dividends should not be recognised until paid or approved by the shareholders.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 92
