Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 130 to 136.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2009.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Managements review of the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position of the business and the approach to financial risk management are given in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25 and in the Internal Controls and Risk Management section on pages 26 to 29.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows: The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and management approach for determining these, is described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves SAMREC.
The determination of resources and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties.
Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in the rehabilitation provision.
The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs.
Estimating the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the likely costs which would be incurred.
Such judgments are made using advice from expert advisors.
In addition, the outflows in respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future.
Judgment is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
com 95 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement.
96 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling: and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
Share-based payment From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that nonmarket conditions are met.
Business combinations and goodwill At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired interest in the fair values of those net assets.
Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value.
Any negative goodwill is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Groups investments.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
com 97 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment The Groups principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and evaluation, mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
98 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment continued Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values is set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long-term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Projections are made using external sources of information.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by competent persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Groups history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The real weighted average cost of capital applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU was 8% 2008 8%.
Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
This approach has been used in determining the value of the Akanani CGU based on the most up to date detailed mine and operating plans, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36.
The resources at Akanani include the exploration and evaluation asset, a deferred tax liability and tax goodwill.
The exploration and evaluation asset includes an amount for tax amortisation benefit.
A deferred tax liability was created on acquisition but because deferred tax liabilities are not discounted and the tax amortisation benefits are, a tax goodwill balance was created.
This tax goodwill balance represents the effect of not discounting the deferred tax liability.
This is reviewed for impairment as required under IAS 36 as well as under IFRS 6.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
For the Akanani CGU managements assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and there has been limited change in anticipated long-term metal prices since this time.
For the Akanani CGU management do not believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long-term metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources or long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the carrying value of the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
As the PGM ounces are only indicated and inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered impractical to provide quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
com 99 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment continued Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reversal of impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
Platinum Group Metals PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
For current UK employees, the Group either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme which the Group has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements.
100 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that such remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
com 101 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when occurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised directly in equity if effective.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Segmental reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in either providing products or services business segment, or is providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
The Groups primary format for segment reporting is based on business segments.
The business segments are determined based on the Groups management and internal reporting structure.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to IFRS as adopted by the EU are not yet effective for the year ended 30 September 2009, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The following are of relevance to the Group: IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 introduces the management approach to segment reporting.
IFRS 8, which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements, will require the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources to them.
The Group does not expect significant changes to be implemented.
IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial Statements effective 1 January 2009 affects the presentation of owner changes in equity with the requirement to present in a statement of changes in equity for all owner changes in equity and to present comprehensive income.
It does not change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and other events required by other IFRSs.
IFRS 7 amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosure effective 1 January 2009 improves the disclosure requirements relating to fair value measurements and reinforces existing principles regarding disclosures of liquidity risk associated with financial instruments.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective 1 January 2009 requires that an entity shall capitalise borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
This is in-line with the Groups existing policy regarding the capitalisation of borrowing costs.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective 1 July 2009 is a comprehensive revision of IFRS 3 which will have an impact on future acquisitions and the impact on the accounting policies of the group will be assessed.
IFRS 2 amendment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions effective 1 January 2010.
In addition to the above the IASB has issued IAS 32 amendment Classification of Rights Issues effective 1 February 2010 which allows Rights Issues which will exchange an entitys own equity for a fixed amount of cash in any currency to be treated as equity if the rights have been offered pro-rata to all existing equity holders.
The Rights Issue undertaken by the Group meets this criteria however, as explained in note 29, as the amendment has not been adopted by the EU and cannot be applied by the Group.
If the amendment is adopted by the EU the Group may restate the 2009 results in the 2010 financial statements.
102 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis The Groups primary operating segment is the mining of Platinum Group Metals.
The majority of the Groups operations are based in South Africa.
2009 ii iii iv Platinum Corporate Exploration Total Analysis by business group $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 1,062 1,062 Operating loss 81 50 11 142 Segment total assets 3,262 183 768 4,213 Segment total liabilities 1,216 24 171 1,411 i Capital expenditure 229 29 258 Depreciation and amortisation 94 94 Impairment losses note 3 39 39 Share of profit of associate and joint venture 1 1 Share of net assets of associate and joint venture 159 159 2008 ii iii iv Platinum Corporate Exploration Total Analysis by business group $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 2,231 2,231 Operating profit loss 892 101 27 764 Segment total assets 3,369 25 741 4,135 Segment total liabilities 1,100 267 174 1,541 i Capital expenditure 389 36 425 Depreciation and amortisation 96 96 Impairment losses note 3 193 193 Share of profit of associate and joint venture 27 27 Share of net assets of associate and joint venture 163 163 2009 South Africa UK Other Total Analysis by geographical location $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 1,062 1,062 Segment total assets 4,023 164 26 4,213 i Capital expenditure 258 258 2008 South Africa UK Other Total Analysis by geographical location $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 2,231 2,231 Segment total assets 4,091 10 34 4,135 i Capital expenditure 425 425 Footnotes: i Capital expenditure includes additions to property, plant and equipment including capitalised interest, intangible assets and goodwill in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
ii The Platinum segment includes all operational activities together with direct overheads, plus investments in mining related assets.
iii The Corporate segment consists of the London head office and the Johannesburg office.
iv The Exploration segment comprises the investment in the Akanani deposit and various exploration sites around the world.
Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below: 2009 2008 $m $m The Americas 227 580 Asia 296 798 Europe 417 349 South Africa 122 496 Zimbabwe 8 1,062 2,231 www.
com 103 Notes to the Accounts 3 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency with prior years.
2009 2008 $m $m Operating loss: 49 199 i Restructuring and reorganisation costs 49 ii Profit on disposal of subsidiary 2 iii Pensions 9 iv Defence costs 18 v Impairment loss 174 vi Impairment of available for sale financial assets 39 19 Finance costs: 73 Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue note 29 33 Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance note 29 4 Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of Rights Issue note 29 36 Loss on special items before taxation 161 218 Taxation related to special items note 7 33 109 Special loss before minority interest 194 109 Minority interest 12 14 Special loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 182 95 Footnotes: i During the year the Group incurred $49 million in restructuring and reorganisation costs 2008 $nil primarily comprising employee exit costs together with abnormal non-productive operating costs at Limpopo following announcement of its closure.
ii During 2008 the Group disposed of a subsidiary, Southern Era Mining Exploration South Africa Pty Limited, for consideration of $3 million resulting in a profit before tax of $2 million.
iii During 2008 the Group settled the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme LSS and incurred a $9 million charge.
iv In 2008 the Group incurred $18 million of defence costs relating to a takeover bid that occurred.
v In 2008 impairment charges primarily comprised the write down of property, plant and equipment of $89 million for the Baobab shaft at Limpopo together with $73 million of smelting synergies recognised as goodwill recognised at acquisition and $7 million relating to the remaining carrying value of the Messina concentrate off-take contract.
This impairment arose as a result of reduced reserves and weaker short-term pricing anticipated.
vi During the year certain available for sale financial assets were marked to market and have fallen below original acquisition costs resulting in $39 million of impairment charges being taken to the income statement 2008 $19 million.
In the current year $9 million subsequent gain on financial assets has been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 2008 $127 million loss.
104 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 4 Group operating loss profit Group operating loss profit is arrived at as follows: 2009 2008 $m $m Revenue 1,062 2,231 Cost of sales 1,088 1,121 Gross loss profit 26 1,110 Administration expenses 56 120 Exploration note 2 11 27 Special costs note 3 49 199 Group operating loss profit 142 764 Group operating loss profit is stated after charging crediting : 2009 2008 $m $m Operating lease charges land and buildings 1 1 Depreciation charge property, plant and equipment 80 80 Amortisation charge intangible assets 14 16 i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments 10 15 Special items note 3 49 199 Share-based payments 4 6 Foreign exchange gains 3 13 Footnote: i Included within employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments is $5 million 2008 $9 million in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates included in operating costs: 2009 2008 $m $m UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.8 1.1 0.3 1.2 1.5 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 Tax services 0.2 0.2 Sustainability assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 IT assurance services 0.5 0.5 Accounting and other advice 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.7 1.0 1.7 1.1 2.2 3.3 In addition fees of $0.6 million in relation to the Rights Issue have been deducted from the share premium account.
com 105 Notes to the Accounts 5 Employees The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 No.
South Africa 21,944 25,274 Europe 31 36 Rest of world 25 52 22,000 25,362 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows: 2009 2008 Employee costs $m $m Wages and salaries 455 501 Social security costs 9 14 Pension costs 33 36 Share-based payments 4 6 501 557 2009 2008 Key management compensation $m $m Short-term employee benefits 9 9 Termination payments 5 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Key management costs excluding share-based payments 10 15 Share-based payments 1 3 11 18 The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Executive Committee Exco which comprised the two executive Directors and five other senior managers 2008 three executive Directors and eight other senior managers.
The sterling equivalents of total Directors emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details of Directors remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 72 to 89.
106 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 6 Net finance costs 2009 2008 $m $m Finance income: 6 13 Interest receivable 3 5 Movement in fair value of other receivables note 14 3 1 Other interest receivable 7 Finance expenses: 25 6 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 15 22 Bank fees 8 1 i Capitalised interest 23 23 Unwind of discounting on provisions note 24 5 4 Exchange differences on other receivables note 14 3 4 ii Exchange differences on net debt 23 2 Special items: 73 Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue notes 3 and 29 33 Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance notes 3 and 29 4 Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of Rights Issue notes 3 and 29 36 Total finance expenses 98 6 Net finance expense income 92 7 Footnotes: i Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset.
The weighted average interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 4.8% 2008 4.7%.
ii Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
com 107 Notes to the Accounts 7 Taxation 2009 2008 $m $m United Kingdom: Current tax expense at 28% 2008 28% 33 126 Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available 33 126 Total UK tax expense Overseas: Current tax expense at 28% 2008 28% excluding special items 11 261 Corporate tax expense 1 224 Tax on dividends remitted 10 37 Deferred tax expense: 7 61 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7 49 Prior year adjustment 12 Tax on dividends unremitted 12 12 Special items UK and overseas note 3 : 33 109 i Reversal of utilisation utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability 1 2 ii Exchange on current taxation 5 19 ii Exchange on deferred taxation 43 69 Tax on restructuring and reorganisation costs 6 iii Change in South African corporate tax rate from 29% to 28% 19 Actual tax charge 51 213 Tax charge excluding special items note 3 18 322 Effective tax rate 19 % 27% Effective tax rate excluding special items note 3 16 % 32% A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the actual tax charge was as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 $m $m Tax credit charge at standard tax rate 28% 76 28% 218 Special items as defined above 12% 33 14% 109 Tax effect of impairment relating to Baobab shaft at Limpopo 6% 49 Tax effect of impairment of available for sale financial assets 4% 11 1% 5 Tax effect of temporary differences relating to prior years 4% 10 6% 49 Tax effect of losses in respect of Rights Issue 7% 20 Tax effect of unutilised losses 7% 18 Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits 13% 35 1 Actual tax charge 19% 51 27% 213 The Groups primary operations are based in South Africa.
Therefore, the relevant standard tax rate for the Group is the South African statutory tax rate of 28% 2008 28%.
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies is 10% 2008 10%.
Footnotes: i The Group holds a number of available for sale financial assets which are marked to market.
In the current and prior year most of the investments decreased in value resulting in the unwind of the associated deferred tax balances which had accumulated on the previous increases in fair value of the investments.
Losses below initial carrying value have not created deferred tax assets because future profits arising in relevant statutory entities are not considered sufficiently certain.
In the prior year one of the investments increased in value resulting in a deferred tax balance arising on setting off unutilised tax losses against the gain.
In the current year this investment decreased in value resulting in part of the previously recognised deferred tax balance reversing and the reversal of related utilised losses.
ii Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based on Rand financial statements.
As the Groups functional currency is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation differences.
The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2009 is $412 million 30 September 2008 $373 million.
iii The corporation tax rate for the year was 28% 2008 28%.
The corporation tax rate changed to 28% in the prior financial year which resulted in a net release of deferred tax liabilities of $19 million.
This tax saving was reported as special.
108 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 8 Loss earnings per share Loss earnings per share have been calculated on the loss attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $285 million 2008 profit $455 million using a weighted average number of 174,116,102 ordinary shares in issue 2008 163,803,041 ordinary shares.
During the year the Group undertook a capital raising by way of a Rights Issue.
As a result the LPS EPS figures have been adjusted retrospectively as required by IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
On 4 June 2009, 35,072,129 ordinary shares were issued with two new ordinary shares issued for every existing nine ordinary shares held.
For the calculation of the LPS EPS, the number of shares held prior to 4 June 2009 have been increased by a bonus factor of 1.048 to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Diluted loss earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
In the 12 months to 30 September 2009 outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so have been excluded from diluted loss per share in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
2009 2008 restated Loss for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic LPS EPS 285 174,116,102 163.7 455 163,803,041 277.8 Share option schemes 520,181 0.9 Diluted LPS EPS 285 174,116,102 163.7 455 164,323,222 276.9 2009 2008 restated Loss for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Underlying LPS EPS 103 174,116,102 59.2 550 163,803,041 335.8 Share option schemes 520,181 1.1 Diluted Underlying LPS EPS 103 174,116,102 59.2 550 164,323,222 334.7 Underlying loss earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of the business.
Underlying loss earnings per share is based on the loss earnings attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude special items as defined in note 3 as follows: 2009 2008 restated Loss profit Per share Profit for Per share for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic LPS EPS 285 174,116,102 163.7 455 163,803,041 277.8 Special items note 3 182 104.5 95 58.0 Underlying LPS EPS 103 174,116,102 59.2 550 163,803,041 335.8 Headline loss earnings and the resultant headline loss earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
These are calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 $m $m Loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders IAS 33 earnings 285 455 Less profit on sale of subsidiary note 3 2 Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 Add back impairment of assets note 3 39 193 Tax related to the above items 1 Headline loss earnings 242 647 www.
com 109 Notes to the Accounts 8 Loss earnings per share continued 2009 2008 restated Loss for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Headline LPS EPS 242 174,116,102 139.0 647 163,803,041 395.0 Share option schemes 520,181 1.3 Diluted Headline LPS EPS 242 174,116,102 139.0 647 164,323,222 393.7 9 Dividends i 2009 2008 restated $m Cents per share $m Cents per share Prior year final dividend paid in the year 94 57.3 Interim dividend paid in the year 92 56.3 Total dividend paid in the year 186 113.6 Interim dividend paid in the year 92 56.3 Proposed final dividend for the year Total dividend in respect of the year 92 56.3 Footnotes: i During the year the Group undertook a Rights Issue.
As a result, the dividend per share figures have been adjusted retrospectively by applying a factor of 1.048 in order to adjust for the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
10 Goodwill 2009 2008 $m $m Cost: At 1 October 186 186 As at 30 September 186 186 Impairment: At 1 October 73 Charge in the year 73 At 30 September 73 73 Net book value at 30 September 113 113 There are two cash generating units CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill.
The Marikana CGU operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group.
The Akanani CGU is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the Groups impairment policy see note 1.
At 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008 goodwill is allocated as follows: $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU.
This arose on the acquisition of a further 9.11% of the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.
$73 million tax goodwill is allocated to the Akanani CGU.
In 2008 a review was carried out on the carrying value of the $73 million of smelting synergies allocated to the Marikana CGU that arose on the acquisition of Messina Platinum Mines Limited in 2005.
This goodwill was fully impaired in 2008 as explained in note 3.
110 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 11 Intangible assets 2009 2008 Exploration Exploration and Mineral and Mineral evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 October 666 337 47 1,050 630 337 47 1,014 Additions 29 29 36 36 At 30 September 695 337 47 1,079 666 337 47 1,050 Amortisation: At 1 October 73 28 101 64 14 78 Charge for the year 7 7 14 9 7 16 Impairment 7 7 At 30 September 80 35 115 73 28 101 Net book value: At 30 September 695 257 12 964 666 264 19 949 The net book value of other intangible assets at 30 September 2009 represented capitalised software development costs $12 million 2008 $19 million.
In the prior year, the Messina off-take contract was impaired $7 million following the impairment of the Baobab shaft at Limpopo as explained in note 3.
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $16 million of capitalised interest 2008 $12 million.
The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $695 million 2008 $666 million relating to the exploration operations at Akanani.
$611 million arose at acquisition in February 2007.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill see note 10.
The Groups approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set out in the accounting policies see note 1. www.
In accordance with the Group accounting policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million 2008 $13 million.
As explained in note 3, in the prior year impairment reviews of the Baobab shaft at Limpopo operations resulted in impairment charges to property, plant and equipment of $89 million.
The remaining assets that relate to the Baobab shaft at Limpopo which have a carrying value of $35 million were not impaired because they can be used in the business.
112 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 13 Associate and Joint Venture The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources Pty Limited which is incorporated in South Africa.
The functional currency of Incwala Resources Pty Limited is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the company are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa.
The Group equity accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity.
The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
2009 2008 Group Group share of share of net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Net book value at 1 October 157 6 163 125 6 131 Share of profit loss 1 1 27 27 Distribution of profits 16 16 Capital contributions 5 5 Foreign exchange 6 6 5 5 Net book value at 30 September 153 6 159 157 6 163 Our share of the associate and joint venture net assets comprises the following: 2009 2008 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 142 18 160 137 11 148 Current assets 4 36 40 6 44 50 Current liabilities 5 9 14 1 12 13 Non-current liabilities 27 6 33 25 3 28 Net assets 114 39 153 117 40 157 Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the associate and joint venture comprised: 2009 2008 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Share of net assets 114 39 153 117 40 157 Goodwill 6 6 6 6 120 39 159 123 40 163 Our share of the associate and joint venture profit loss comprises the following: 2009 2008 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue income 4 21 25 15 42 57 Expenses including taxation 2 22 24 6 24 30 Profit loss 2 1 1 9 18 27 www.
com 113 Notes to the Accounts 14 Non-current financial assets Available Other for sale receivables Total $m $m $m At 1 October 2008 96 19 115 Movement in fair value 9 3 12 Impairment loss 39 39 Exchange differences 2 3 5 At 30 September 2009 68 25 93 Available Other for sale receivables Total $m $m $m At 1 October 2007 226 22 248 Additions 17 17 Disposals 1 1 Movement in fair value 127 1 126 Impairment loss 19 19 Exchange differences 4 4 At 30 September 2008 96 19 115 Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price where available.
Other receivables at 30 September 2009 represents loans advanced to fellow investors in Incwala Resources Pty Limited.
These loans expire in less than two years.
2009 2008 $m $m Listed investments 55 85 Listed investments include a 5% shareholding in Platmin Limited 2008 21% which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
15 Employee benefits The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa.
The UK defined benefit scheme, the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme LSS was settled in the prior year see note 3.
There were no accrued obligations under defined contribution plans at 30 September 2009 and 2008.
The total pension cost for the Group was $33 million 2008 $36 million, $32 million of which related to overseas schemes 2008 $34 million.
Liabilities in respect of cash settled share option schemes The Group runs a number of employee benefit share scheme plans.
The balances held on the balance sheet as employee benefits at the year end were as follows: 2009 2008 $m $m Liabilities in respect of cash settled share schemes 10 13 Social security on share options 1 8 11 21 114 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 16 Inventories 2009 2008 $m $m Raw materials and consumables 36 36 Work in progress 230 276 Finished goods 5 7 271 319 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $994 million 2008 $1,041 million.
17 Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 $m $m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 173 249 Other receivables 99 74 i Prepayments and accrued income 15 3 287 326 Footnote: i Prepayments include $12m of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities 2008 $nil.
18 Assets held for sale 2009 2008 $m $m At 1 October 6 7 Disposals 1 At 30 September 6 6 Assets held for sale represent houses the Group is selling to employees, within twelve months of the balance sheet date, to encourage home ownership.
These assets are held in the Platinum business segment and the South African geographical region.
19 Trade and other payables 2009 2008 $m $m Trade payables 170 149 Accruals 42 98 Indirect taxation and social security 3 4 Other payables 122 95 337 346 20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2009 2008 $m $m Short-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 58 Long-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 349 529 407 529 The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 22c.
com 115 Notes to the Accounts 21 Derivative financial instruments 2009 2008 Cash flow hedges $m $m Derivative financial instruments asset 1 20 The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments.
Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interests to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price fluctuations.
For both 2009 and 2008 such forward sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of nickel and copper by-products and such contracts are typically settled within one year.
22 Financial risk management For the narrative policies regarding financial risk management refer to the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25.
22a Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2009 2008 $m $m Non-current assets: Other receivables 25 19 Current assets: Trade receivables 173 249 Other receivables 99 74 Derivative financial instruments 1 20 Cash and cash equivalents 282 226 580 588 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was: 2009 2008 $m $m The Americas 2 123 Asia 5 58 Europe 157 28 South Africa 9 40 173 249 116 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 22 Financial risk management continued 22b Credit risk Trade receivables The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows.
No provision has been made for trade receivables that are past their due date.
2009 2008 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Not past due 173 173 246 246 Past due 0-30 days Past due 31-60 days Past due 61-90 days 13 10 3 173 173 259 10 249 The movement in the provision in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 $m $m Opening balance at 1 October 10 New provision recognised 10 Provision utilised 5 Reversal of previous provision 5 Closing balance at 30 September 10 22c Liquidity risk Maturity of financial liabilities The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 407 443 78 260 105 Trade and other payables 337 337 337 Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 529 577 17 286 274 Trade and other payables 346 346 346 www.
com 117 Notes to the Accounts 22 Financial risk management continued 22d Currency exposures Lonmins operations are based predominantly in South Africa with the majority of income stream arising in US Dollars.
Cash held in South Africa is mostly in US Dollars and is normally remitted on a regular basis to the UK.
When short-term working capital facilities are required in South Africa these are in US Dollars or South African Rand as appropriate.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement.
2009 2008 SA rand Sterling Other Total SA rand Sterling Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets: Available for sale financial assets 12 56 68 11 85 96 Other receivables 25 25 19 19 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 104 104 40 2 42 Cash and cash equivalents 62 33 95 34 34 Tax recoverable 1 1 5 5 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 283 14 297 262 19 281 Tax payable 10 10 55 55 89 19 56 14 208 17 85 140 22e Interest rate risk Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below: Weighted average interest rate in 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 % $m $m $m $m Liabilities Non-current i Loans 5.6 349 195 105 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates 2008 ii 2009 restated 2009 2008 $m $m $m $m Financial assets US Dollar 168 299 187 192 SA Rand 142 75 62 34 Sterling 2 33 Other 56 85 366 461 282 226 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates 2008 ii 2009 restated 2009 2008 $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities US Dollar 30 10 300 529 SA Rand 293 317 107 Sterling 14 19 337 346 407 529 Footnotes: i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
ii Prior year figures have been restated to include tax recoverable within financial assets and to correct the allocation of financial assets and financial liabilities between currencies.
118 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 22 Financial risk management continued 22f Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: 2009 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 68 68 96 96 Other non-current receivables 25 25 19 19 Trade and other receivables 272 272 326 326 Cash and cash equivalents 282 282 226 226 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 20 20 Financial assets 648 648 687 687 Trade and other payables 337 337 346 346 Unsecured bank loans 407 407 529 529 Financial liabilities 744 744 875 875 Net financial liabilities 96 96 188 188 Available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market.
Other non-current receivables are carried at fair value as described in note 14.
For bank overdraft and cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
23 Deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m Exploration and evaluation assets 167 167 167 167 Property, plant and equipment 474 474 393 393 Provisions 31 31 31 31 Deferred tax on unrealised gains on available for sale financial assets Deferred tax on dividends payable 12 12 Deferred tax on derivatives 5 5 Trading losses 25 25 Share-based payments 6 6 6 6 62 641 579 37 577 540 www.
com 119 Notes to the Accounts 23 Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Movement in temporary differences during the year Recognised in income At 1 At 30 October Exchange Special Recognised September 2008 movements items Underlying in equity 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Exploration and evaluation assets 167 167 Property, plant and equipment 393 47 34 474 Provisions 31 4 4 31 Deferred tax on unrealised gains on available for sale financial assets 1 1 Deferred tax on dividends payable 12 12 Cash flow hedges 5 5 Trading losses 6 19 25 Share-based payments 6 6 540 43 5 7 6 579 Recognised in income At 1 At 30 October Exchange Special Recognised September 2007 movements items Underlying in equity 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m Exploration and evaluation assets 173 6 167 Property, plant and equipment 414 71 14 64 393 Provisions 19 2 1 15 31 Deferred tax on unrealised gains on available for sale financial assets 21 2 19 Deferred tax on dividends payable 12 12 Cash flow hedges 2 3 5 Share-based payments 6 6 585 69 21 61 16 540 Unrecognised deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2009 2008 Unrecognised Unrecognised deferred tax deferred tax Temporary assets Temporary assets differences liabilities differences liabilities $m $m $m $m Capital losses carried forward 675 189 779 215 Trading and other losses carried forward 175 49 146 41 Unredeemed capital expenditure 196 55 211 59 Share-based payments 41 21 6 Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries 1,314 131 1,418 142 264 163 261 179 The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate in the United Kingdom at 28% 2008 28%, South Africa at 28% 2008 28% and Canada at 18% 2008 18%.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries has been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10% 2008 10%.
At 30 September 2009, the Group had an amount of $113 million 2008 $126 million of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax ACT available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities.
Shadow ACT amounted to $256 million 2008 $286 million and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the operating losses and the capital losses as management believe the chances of recovery are low.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Generally retained profits arising in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to fund capital expenditure requirements.
120 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 24 Provisions 2009 2008 $m $m At 1 October 50 46 Charge for the year 6 8 Unwinding of discount note 6 5 4 Exchange differences 6 8 At 30 September 67 50 Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities with the cash flows occurring at the end of the life of the mine.
25 Contingent liabilities 2009 2008 $m $m i Third party guarantees 5 7 ii Indemnities 83 74 iii Preference share capital put options 23 18 iv Vantage Capital Investments 20 18 Outstanding legal claims 2 Contingent liabilities 131 119 Footnotes: i Third party guarantees relate to guarantees provided by the Group in connection with the sale of certain subsidiaries in 1996, 1997 and 1998 for which amounts have been reasonably estimated but the liabilities are not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in the accounts.
ii Indemnities represent the vendor financing indemnity given by Lonmin following the purchase of the additional 9.11% in Eastern Platinum Limited EPL and Western Platinum Limited WPL and the investment in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Lonmin agreed to indemnify Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Impala against any non-payment on the relevant due date of any principal amount owing to Impala by any HDSA historically disadvantaged South African investor in relation to loans made by Impala to HDSA investors for their purchase of shares in EPL and WPL.
The total value of the indemnity granted was the US Dollar equivalent of R618 million $83 million of which $39 million became due after 30 September 2009, $20 million becomes due after 16 December 2009, $16 million becomes due after 30 September 2011 and $8 million becomes due after 16 December 2011.
A counter-indemnity has been given by each HDSA investor which is secured on that HDSA investors shares in Incwala.
For events after the balance sheet date see note 35. iii Various preference share capital put option agreements were entered into by Lonmin with a number of banks who subscribed for preference shares in HDSAs investing in Incwala.
These options, which amount to the US Dollar equivalent of R173 million $23 million, can be put upon Lonmin by the banks in the event that the HDSAs default on payment.
iv Vantage Capital Investments: 1 In 2006, pursuant to a reorganisation of the HDSA shareholdings in Incwala, Lonmin Plc granted Standard Chartered Bank Johannesburg Branch a put option in respect of 96 preference shares in Vantage Capital Investments Pty Ltd. During the year ended 30 September 2007 the bank sold 48 of these put options to Thelo Incwala Investments Pty Limited Thelo.
The value of the put option granted by Lonmin Plc outstanding at 30 September 2009 was the US Dollar equivalent of R114 million $15 million, 2008 $13 million.
2 The Lonmin Employee Masakane Trust LEMT has a 25% shareholding in Thelo.
Lonmin Plc has provided a guarantee to Sanlam Capital Markets Limited, on behalf of LEMT, over their 25% share of the Thelo funding to acquire 48 preference shares in Vantage Capital.
The value of this guarantee at 30 September 2009 was the US Dollar equivalent of R35 million $5 million, 2008 $5 million.
com 121 Notes to the Accounts 26 Called up share capital and share premium account Number $m Ordinary shares of $1 each: Authorised 2009 and 2008 252,735,000 253 Issued and fully paid 2009 193,054,260 193 Issued and fully paid 2008 156,383,233 156 Deferred shares of 1 each: Authorised, issued and fully paid 2009 and 2008 50,000 Issued and Paid up Share fully paid amount premium Number $m $m At 1 October 2008: Ordinary shares of $1 each 156,383,233 156 305 The issue of shares: i to satisfy the exercise of share options and awards 341,253 1 ii to the Employee Benefit Trust 85,062 iii to satisfy the exercise of the International Finance Corporation option agreement 1,172,583 1 15 iv pursuant to the 2 for 9 Rights Issue note 29 35,072,129 35 456 At 30 September 2009: Ordinary shares of $1 each 193,054,260 193 776 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares can be found on page 63 of the Directors Report Governance.
122 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 27 Share plans At 30 September 2009, the following options and awards were outstanding: Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number outstanding contracted of options of shares options pence life years granted Share Plans Executive Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 30.09.08 249,736 1,064.51 Granted during the year Rights Issue adjustment 10,690 Exercised during the year 34,337 999.52 Lapsed during the year 26,045 1,040.71 Outstanding at 30.09.09 200,044 1,022.21 3.23 2.07 Exercisable at the end of the year 200,044 Lonmin Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 30.09.08 12,834 1,150.00 Granted during the year Rights Issue adjustment 611 Exercised during the year 2,724 1,098.00 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30.09.09 10,721 1,098.00 2.75 2.07 Exercisable at the end of the year 10,721 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 30.09.08 19,696 827.30 Granted during the year Rights Issue adjustment 846 Exercised during the year 1,704 723.32 Lapsed during the year 924 1,303.66 Outstanding at 30.09.09 17,914 773.39 0.36 3.18 Exercisable at the end of the year Long Term Incentive Plan Outstanding at 30.09.08 499,972 Granted during the year 511,668 Rights Issue adjustment 10,703 Exercised during the year 178,912 Lapsed during the year 199,346 Outstanding at 30.09.09 644,085 2.59 19.32 Exercisable at the end of the year Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Outstanding at 30.09.08 73,193 Granted during the year 67,747 Rights Issue adjustment 4,192 Exercised during the year 28,937 Lapsed during the year 28,267 Outstanding at 30.09.09 87,928 1.92 12.33 Exercisable at the end of the year Co Investment Plan Matched Award Outstanding at 30.09.08 126,360 Granted during the year Rights Issue adjustment Rolled over during the year Vested during the year 62,946 Lapsed during the year 63,414 Outstanding at 30.09.09 Exercisable at the end of the year www.
com 123 Notes to the Accounts 27 Share plans continued Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number outstanding contracted of options of shares options pence life years granted Stay & Prosper Plan Outstanding at 30.09.08 1,241,814 Granted during the year 663,562 Rights Issue adjustment 48,038 Exercised during the year 92,251 Lapsed during the year 294,589 Outstanding at 30.09.09 1,566,574 2.11 16.74 Exercisable at the end of the year Cash Settled Plans Scarce Skills Retention Plan Outstanding at 30.09.08 82,000 Granted during the year Rights Issue adjustment 2,825 Exercised during the year 61,278 Lapsed during the year 23,547 Outstanding at 30.09.09 Exercisable at the end of the year Awards granted pursuant to the Stay & Prosper Plan may be share settled or cash settled.
Further information about each of the above plans including the performance conditions can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report in pages 72 to 89.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust the Trust At 30 September 2009 the Trust held 53,636 shares beneficially and as bare trustee 2008 103,661 shares.
The market value of these shares at the year end was 897,867.
Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the Trust on behalf of the participants.
Each of the executive Directors are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent disclosed in the table of Directors share interests, and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted in period The fair value of both equity-settled and cash-settled options granted in the period have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following valuation models: LTIP Monte Carlo DABP Monte Carlo Stay and Prosper Monte Carlo 2009 2008 Range of share price at date of grant 6.79 17.32 23.92 34.08 Exercise price Expected option life years 3 3 Volatility 60 73% 23 65% Dividend yield 4.4% 2.7% Risk free interest rate 1.1 2.4% 2.9 3.0% Volatility was calculated with reference to the Groups historic share price volatility up to the grant date.
The number of years of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
The liability in respect of the cash-settled elements of the schemes shown above and reported within non-current employee benefits at 30 September 2009 is $10 million 2008 $13 million.
124 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 28 Total equity Equity shareholders funds Called Share up share premium Other Retained Minority Total iv v capital account reserves earnings Total interests equity $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2008 156 305 100 1,586 2,147 447 2,594 Total recognised income and expense 11 269 280 41 321 Dividends 21 21 Share-based payments 2 2 2 Share capital and share premium recognised ii on Rights Issue 35 477 512 512 Rights Issue costs charged ii to share premium 21 21 21 Exchange gain on shares ii to be issued 4 4 4 Reversal of fair value movements of derivative liability recognised in respect ii of Rights Issue 36 36 36 Shares issued under the iii IFC option agreement 1 15 16 16 Shares issued on exercise i of share options 1 1 1 At 30 September 2009 193 776 89 1,359 2,417 385 2,802 At 1 October 2007 156 299 96 1,417 1,968 392 2,360 Total recognised income and expense 4 348 352 120 472 Dividends 186 186 65 251 Share-based payments 7 7 7 Shares issued on exercise i of share options 6 6 6 At 30 September 2008 156 305 100 1,586 2,147 447 2,594 Footnotes: i During the year 426,315 share options were exercised 2008 231,338 on which $1 million of cash was received 2008 $6 million.
ii During the year the Group undertook a Rights Issue in which 35,072,129 shares were issued as disclosed in note 29. iii During the year 1,172,583 shares were issued under the International Finance Corporation agreement.
As the shares were issued at a discount to market value only $15 million of cash was received.
iv Other reserves represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million 2008 $88 million and a $1 million hedging reserve net of deferred tax 2008 $12 million.
v Minority interests represent an 18% shareholding in Eastern Platinum Limited, Western Platinum Limited and Messina Limited and a 26% shareholding in Akanani Mining Pty Limited.
com 125 Notes to the Accounts 29 Rights Issue i Overview of the Rights Issue offer.
On 11 May 2009, Lonmin announced a fully under-written 2 for 9 Rights Issue of 35.1 million new ordinary shares at 9.00 per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at R113.04 per new share for shareholders on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The offer period commenced on 15 May 2009 and closed for acceptance on 4 June 2009.
In the prospectus Lonmin anticipated raising $477 million proceeds in total which, net of expenses of $20 million, would raise funds of $457 million.
The issue was successful with a take-up of more than 96% of the shares on offer.
The Company actually raised net proceeds of $458 million which was in line with the expectations given in the prospectus, with 97% of the funds raised in the UK.
ii Accounting for the Rights Issue.
The Rights Issue proceeds were received over the offer period and were credited to a shares to be issued account at the prevailing spot exchange rates at the date of receipt resulting in the recognition of a cash inflow of $516 million before the impact of the hedging arrangements.
The retranslation of these advance receipts at the spot rate on closing resulted in a $4 million exchange loss recognised through finance costs as a special charge.
There was a corresponding gain recognised directly in equity of $4 million for exchange movements on the shares to be issued.
Share capital and share premium of $512 million was recognised on the balance sheet utilising the prevailing spot exchange rates on the issuance date of 4 June 2009, except for the Xstrata proceeds which were received in Dollars on 2 June 2009 as explained further below.
$21 million of issue costs were also recognised and charged against share premium and resulted in a cash outflow in the year to give a net increase in share capital and share premium of $491 million.
In order to minimise the risk of the exposure to currency fluctuations on the net Sterling funds expected the Group undertook two hedging arrangements in synchronisation with the Rights Issue process.
The net expected proceeds were hedged because the bulk of the issue costs were in Sterling.
Net Sterling amounts expected, with the exception of monies due from Xstrata plc in its capacity as a Lonmin Plc shareholder, were covered by forward exchange contracts executed over the week prior to the announcement and due for settlement on 4 June 2009.
In respect of the Sterling monies due from Xstrata it was agreed that settlement would be made directly in US Dollars and the amount was set using forward market rates on the date of announcement and for settlement on 2 June 2009.
As the Dollar weakened considerably over the offer period the Sterling proceeds received translated into $516 million were higher than due under the forward exchange contracts.
This therefore resulted in the recognition of foreign exchange losses under the forward hedging arrangements of $33 million.
This $33 million fair value loss cannot be offset against equity which it was effectively hedging for economic purposes as, under IFRS, hedge accounting can only be applied to cash flows which ultimately affect profit and loss.
The $33 million loss on the forward hedges has therefore been shown as a special charge in finance costs in the income statement see note 3 and therefore reduces retained earnings and distributable reserves.
The offset is effectively in the recognition of a higher credit to the share premium account.
As noted above the actual net proceeds were in line with the expectations on the announcement of the Rights Issue.
A summary of the above transactions is as shown below: $m Cash proceeds received at spot rates 516 Foreign exchange loss on retranslation of advance cash proceeds note 3 4 Gross increase in share capital and share premium note 28 512 Costs of issue charged to share premium note 28 21 Net increase in share capital and share premium 491 Loss on settlement of forward exchange contracts note 3 33 Net proceeds 458 126 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 29 Rights Issue continued iii IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation as adopted by the EU.
Under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation as adopted by the EU, a rights issue can only be classified as an equity instrument if the contract is settled by exchanging a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of cash.
As Lonmin is listed on both the LSE and the JSE it has raised equity from the Rights Issue in both Sterling and Rand.
However, as the Companys functional currency is US Dollar, this has resulted in a variable amount of cash being raised for accounting purposes via the Rights Issue.
Therefore, in applying IAS 32 Lonmin recognised a derivative liability of $307 million with a corresponding charge to retained earnings on announcement of the Rights Issue.
The fair value of the derivative liability increased by $36 million to the point of exercise with $25 million of this being due to differences in exchange rates and $11 million due to changes in share price.
This loss was charged to finance costs in the income statement as a special item see notes 3 and 6.
On the exercise of the rights the derivative liability was extinguished and the cumulative $343 million liability was reversed to retained earnings creating a net gain of $36 million in reserves see note 28.
There was, therefore, no overall impact on retained earnings at the end of financial year 2009 and no net impact on distributable reserves or equity.
A summary of the impact is given in the table below.
Retained Derivative Income earnings liability statement Debit credit $m $m $m Initial recognition of liability for offer of rights 307 307 Movements in fair value of rights note 3, 6 36 36 Exercise of rights 343 343 Transfer to retained earnings 36 36 Effect of Rights Issue on retained earnings Nil The IASB has recognised that the above accounting treatment was not the intended outcome for equity issues which raise proceeds which are not in the functional currency.
An amendment to IAS 32 was issued in October 2009.
Under IAS 32 as amended, no derivative liability would be recognised in the balance sheet and no fair value movements on remeasurement would be recognised in the income statement.
The amendment to IAS 32 has, however, not yet been adopted by the EU.
Unendorsed standards cannot be applied by companies under the IAS Regulation if they conflict with extant endorsed standards and therefore IFRS as adopted by the EU has to be applied unless a fair presentation override under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is considered appropriate.
The Directors noted that there were divergent practices in the market in relation to this issue.
The Directors decided that, on balance, whilst under a more principles based approach the Group would account for the transaction entirely as equity and would not recognise the $36 million loss, a fair presentation override could not be justified.
Nevertheless, the Directors have provided additional disclosures below to ensure the users of the Accounts have full information about the transaction as recorded and the impact on the Group under the alternative equity treatment as summarised below.
The amendment to IAS 32 is expected to be adopted by the EU before 1 February 2010.
Therefore, in the 2010 financial statements the Group may restate the 2009 results in respect of the amendment with the effect being as follows: 2009 2009 Income Income statement statement as reported if restated $m $m Net finance costs 92 56 Loss before tax 272 236 Loss after tax 323 287 Earnings 285 249 Loss per share cents 163.7 143.0 www.
com 127 Notes to the Accounts 30 Related party transactions The Groups related party transactions are summarised below: 2009 2008 $m $m Purchases from joint venture Pandora 39 99 Amounts due from to joint venture Pandora 15 5 Amounts due from associate Incwala 2 i Royalties payable to Bapo tribe 14 i Amounts due to Bapo tribe 11 ii Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 12 12 Amounts due from Historically Disadvantaged South African investors in Incwala 25 19 All related party transactions are priced on an arms length basis.
Footnotes: i The Bapo ba Mogale tribe own the land on which the Eastern Platinum mine is based.
ii The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association.
31 Capital commitments 2009 2008 $m $m Contracted for but not yet provided 47 73 32 Operating and finance leases The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below: Land and buildings 2009 2008 $m $m Operating leases which expire: Within one year 1 1 Between one and five years 1 2 2 3 128 Financial Statements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the Accounts 33 Net debt as defined by the Group Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non cash 30 September 2008 Cash flow movements 2009 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 226 83 27 282 Current borrowings 58 58 Non-current borrowings 529 180 349 Unamortised bank fees 12 12 Net debt as defined by the Group 303 205 15 113 Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non cash 30 September 2007 Cash flow movements 2008 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 222 2 2 226 Overdrafts 1 1 221 3 2 226 Current borrowings 237 237 Non-current borrowings 359 170 529 Net debt as defined by the Group 375 70 2 303 Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
34 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Company incorporation % Principal activities Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
35 Events after the balance sheet date During 2009 Lonmin has been engaged in discussions with the Historically Disadvantaged South African HDSA shareholders of Incwala and the HDSAs providers of finance regarding the future ownership of Incwala.
These discussions were in progress at the balance sheet date and are continuing.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date Impala Platinum Holdings Limited called on Lonmin with respect to the R294 million $39 million indemnity which fell due after 30 September and this amount has been paid.
As explained in note 25, Lonmin has a counter indemnity secured on the HDSAs shares in Incwala.
