Shareholder Information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account ISAs stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers also traded in an over-the-counter market in the USA.
the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for the investment of Lonmin Plc shares.
UK share register information UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of 7,200 in cash Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days on the South African branch register.
The register is administered of the release from a Sharesave Scheme.
However, from by Equiniti Registrars formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars.
6 October 2009, investors aged 50 or over on or before You can access information about your shareholding 5 April 2010 may invest up to 10,200 in the current tax year.
including balance movements and dividend payments on From 6 April 2010, the new allowance of 10,200 will apply Shareview, an electronic communications service provided by to all investors.
It also allows you to change your registered address Contact details can be found in Corporate Information details, set up a dividend mandate, vote at general meetings on the following page.
Rensburg Sheppards Investment and register to receive Company communications Management Limited is regulated by the FSA.
recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the To register for this free service, visit www.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary and follow the simple instructions.
You will need your according to individual circumstances and shareholders who shareholder reference number, which can be found on your are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
ShareGift South African branch register information Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity The South African branch register is administered by Link share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd. Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those Contact details for both the UK and South African shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the registrars can be found in Corporate Information on the value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate next page.
the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information Dividends about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, the Board www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be does not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
downloaded from the Companys website.
American Depository Receipts ADRs The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for Warning to shareholders which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
A survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company.
reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK The ADRs trade in the over-the-counter OTC market under listed companies are being targeted by individuals the symbol LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
the depository makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any to ADR holders.
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders organisation and make a record of any other information Capital Gains Tax they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, before getting involved.
You can check at who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base www.
cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two The FSA also maintains on its website a list of companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would targeted, UK investors and any approach from such be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
organisations should be reported to the FSA so that The Companys capital reduction was completed on this list can be kept up to date and any other 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability appropriate action can be considered.
to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital would not be eligible to receive payment under reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, preferably, be contacted by The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March completing an on-line form at www.
uk 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml issues, 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the or, if you do not have access to the internet, Companys shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted on 0845 606 1234. for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998 and Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers 266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their listed on the following page.
They are not able to full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June investigate such incidents themselves but will record 2009.
Shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the details and pass them on to the FSA.
the Rights Issue but who instead sold some or all of their rights may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin plc ordinary shares and should seek independent tax advice as to their liability for capital gains tax in the event they sell their Lonmin plc ordinary shares.
