Financial Calendar for 2010 January AGM and Q1 Production Report May Interim Results including Q2 H1 Production Report July Q3 Production Report November Final Results including Q4 Full year Production Report Please note that the Production Reports for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Companys Interim Management Statements for the respective half-year 142 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our Our employees live and work Zero Harm portfolio of high quality assets.
We are committed to zero safely and experience the personal satisfaction that harm to people and the To deliver the requirements environment.
comes with high performance of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical opportunity to transform our people who do what we say a superior total return on their business.
investment and support our we will do.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded The communities in which we Open, honest communication on safe work, continuous operate value our relationships.
and free sharing of information.
improvement, common Respect For Each Other We are meeting our standards and procedures, commitments to all business Embracing our diversity community involvement and enriched by openness, partners and our suppliers, one that rewards employees contractors, partners and sharing, trust, teamwork for high performance.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem.
Roger Phillimore Ian Farmer Chairman Chief Executive May 2009 www.
com 143 The paper used in this report is made from 50% FSC recycled fibre, 20% virgin ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and 30% mill broke.
The mill generates a proportion of its renewable power from water turbines.
It is fully recyclable and is manufactured within an ISO 14001 certified mill in the UK.
This has been printed using an alcohol free process and the printing inks are made from vegetable oil and are non-hazardous from renewable sources.
Over 90% of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place for all other waste associated with this production.
The printers are FSC and ISO 14001 certified with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all their processes and are working on initiatives to reduce their Carbon Footprint.
Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Photography by Roger Bull and Mike Ellis Printed by CTD Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts For the year ended 30 September 2009 Preparing for recovery Lonmin Plc Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
