Notes to the Group financial statements Subsidiaries 1.
Significant accounting policies Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists Basis of preparation when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
for use in the European Union EU adopted IFRS in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 and those parts of the Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Companies Act 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare the parent date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Accounting companys financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
policies of subsidiaries acquired have been changed where These are presented on pages 79 to 81. necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis see Directors report on page 42 and on Transactions eliminated on consolidation the historical cost basis except where adopted IFRSs require an Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains alternative treatment.
The principal variations to historical cost and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated relate to pensions IAS 19 and certain financial instruments in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Sterling is the functional currency of the parent Foreign currencies company, McBride plc.
All financial information presented has In line with the exemption permitted under IFRS 1, the Group been rounded to the nearest 0.1 million.
elected to reset the foreign currency translation reserve to zero at 1 July 2004, the date of transition.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported functional currency of Group entities at the rate ruling at the date amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rate of experience and various other factors that are believed to be exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form on translation are recognised in the income statement.
The income the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and expenses of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
sterling are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an at the closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired that year: or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision company and recorded initially at the transaction date exchange affects both current and future years.
rate and thereafter at the closing rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and Differences arising on retranslation are taken directly to a estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next separate component of equity.
Exchange differences arising from year are discussed on page 58. the retranslation of a net investment in a foreign operation less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings which The accounting policies set out below have been applied effectively hedge that operation are taken to equity.
On disposal consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
of a foreign operation, accumulated exchange differences are In addition the Group has adopted IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Limit on a recognised in the income statement as a component of the gain Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their or loss on disposal.
Interaction and the Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations.
Adoption of these standards Revenue did not have a material effect on the amounts recognised in the Revenue in the income statement represents the amounts, net of financial statements of the Group.
trade discounts and rebates and excluding value added tax, derived from the provision of goods to third party customers during the Basis of consolidation year.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, the amount of McBride plc the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings of revenue can be measured reliably and receipt of payment is collectively referred to as the Group.
probable, typically on delivery and acceptance of the goods by the customer.
McBride plc The figures 54 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements
