Notes to the Company financial statements Share-based payments 1.
Significant accounting policies Where a parent company grants rights to equity instruments to Basis of accounting employees of a subsidiary and such share-based compensation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial as required by the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared statements of the parent, the subsidiary is required to record an under the historical cost convention and in accordance with expense for such compensation in accordance with FRS 20, Shareapplicable United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting based payments, with a corresponding increase recognised in equity Principles UK GAAP and law.
as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, the Company has recognised an addition to fixed asset investments of the aggregate Under Financial Reporting Standard 1, the Company is exempt from amount of these contributions of 0.3 million 2008: nil with a credit the preparation of a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is to equity for the same amount.
included within the consolidated accounts.
Contingent liabilities Under Financial Reporting Standard 8, Related Party Disclosures, When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to the Company is exempt from disclosing related party transactions guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, with entities that are part of the Group.
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the Under Financial Reporting Standard 29, Financial Instruments: guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it Disclosures, the Company is exempt from publishing financial becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included payment under the guarantee.
Profit for the year Changes in accounting policies The Company has adopted the following amended Financial As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
Reporting Standards during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards did not have any effect on the financial statements of The Company reported a profit for the financial year ended 30 June 2009 of 10.9 million 2008: 14.1m.
Fees payable to the Companys the Company: FRS 17 Retirement Benefits auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts were 0.1 million 2008: 0.1m.
Fees payable to the Companys auditors for FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement services relating to tax were nil 2008: 0.1m.
The Company had no employees for the year ended 30 June 2009 2008: nil.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
The financial statements of the Group are required to give non-audit Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at fee disclosures required by regulation.
cost less any provision for impairment.
For investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration, including the issue of shares 3.
Tangible fixed assets qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference to the During the year ended 30 June 2009, there were no additions to the nominal value only of the shares issued.
Companys tangible fixed assets relating to furniture and fittings 2008: 0.3m.
At 30 June 2009, the Company had tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets relating to furniture and fittings of 0.3 million 2008: 0.3m and Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated computer equipment of nil 2008: 0.1m.
residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: 4.
Investments m Computer equipment Shares in subsidiary undertakings at cost including software 3 to 5 years Furniture and fittings 8 to 10 years At 30 June 2008 155.0 Equity granted to employees of subsidiaries 0.3 Foreign exchange At 30 June 2009 155.3 Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and Set out below are the principal subsidiary undertakings of the liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the Company whose results are included in the consolidated financial rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or statements as at 30 June 2009.
The country of incorporation is also losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
the principal country of operation.
Leases The main business activity of the major operating subsidiaries Operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on involves the manufacture and distribution of Household and Personal a straight line basis over the life of the operating lease.
A full list of subsidiaries is filed with the Registrar of Companies.
McBride plc The figures 80 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Company financial statements
