to challenge the executive directors.
Members of the Board feel There are three principal operating divisions: UK, Western very satisfied that they are kept up to date with legislative changes Continental Europe and Eastern Continental Europe.
Each as they affect the Group and with the information they receive division is headed by a Managing Director who is responsible for about business and trading performance and developments.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director each attend regular trading meetings with the Suggestions for areas of improvement have been made.
These management of each division in which they review all significant include opportunities for the Board to meet more members of the issues, including customer service, trading and operational senior management teams, to improve further their knowledge of performance, forecasts, working capital, people development, the Groups markets, and to make a greater proactive contribution capital investment proposals, health and safety and environmental to the Group strategy process.
At least one meeting per annum will issues.
Reports on progress are tabled at each Board meeting.
be held away from the Head Office usually at one of the operating sites.
Further strengthening of the succession planning process has Board committees occurred in the year and was welcomed by the Board.
Sub-committees of the Board have been established with Charters which detail their composition, activities and duties.
Operational management of the Group They also define the extent of the authority delegated to each The relationship between the Board and the Chief Executive is sub-committee.
The Charters, including the composition of governed by the non-executive directors, particularly through the the sub-committees, are frequently reviewed and updated as work of the Board sub-committees under which the non-executive necessary to ensure ongoing compliance with the provisions directors take active roles to influence and challenge the work, of The Code and other guidelines.
Copies of the terms of reference, performance and recommendations of the Chief Executive and activities, roles and responsibilities of the Boards sub-committees his executive management.
The Board takes overall responsibility are available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk for approving Group policies, including those relating to social responsibility and business ethics, health and safety, and These sub-committees are properly authorised under the sustainability and environmental matters, copies of which are constitution of the Company to take decisions and act on behalf available on the Groups website at www.
The of the Board within the guidelines and delegations laid down by implementation of these policies is delegated to the Chief Executive the Board.
The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these and then cascaded throughout the organisation via the Company sub-committees with reports being tabled from time to time Secretary and the divisional management teams.
The management by the relevant sub-committee chairmen.
Reports for each of of the Groups business activities is also delegated to the Chief the main Board sub-committees follow.
Each committee may Executive who is ultimately responsible for establishing objectives access independent advice as required and each is supported and monitoring executive actions and performance.
The Chief Executive chairs a monthly meeting of the GMT whose Audit Committee role is to assist with the development and implementation of the The Audit Committee comprises the three independent nonGroups strategy, culture and commercial plan, to consider executive directors and is chaired by Colin Smith who has relevant commercial, financial and operational matters, allocate resources financial experience and up to date knowledge of financial matters.
across the Group and ensure transfer and sharing of knowledge and In addition, the Committee invites the lead partner of the external best practice.
In addition to the Chief Executive, the members of the auditor, the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executive to team are the Group Finance Director, the Managing Directors of the attend each meeting.
Other senior management attend on request principal operating divisions, the Group Purchasing Director, the to enable the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee and Group Human Resources Director, the Strategic Development the Committee chairman also hold private sessions with the Director, the Business Development Director and the Company external auditor during the year without the presence of executive Secretary.
Members of the senior management teams are invited to management.
Committee members normally serve for a period of attend as may be deemed appropriate.
not less than three years and a quorum of the Committee is two members.
There are a minimum of three meetings per annum.
The Local operational, commercial, supply chain, finance, development Committee monitors the integrity of the financial and regulatory and technical issues are delegated via the GMT to senior executive reporting process of the Group and reviews the Groups accounting management on a structured basis.
Employee and social and policies and disclosure practices.
It reviews and recommends the community responsibilities are delegated to the Group Human Board to approve all financial statements and announcements.
The Resources Director who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Chief Executive is also ultimately responsible for health and controls and risk management systems.
It oversees the Companys safety and environmental as well as for customer service and relations with the external auditor, actively considering the cost quality matters, although day-to-day management is delegated effectiveness, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit to the Managing Directors of the divisions.
process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee has in place a clear policy on the use of external auditors McBride plc Directors report 31 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
