Notes to the Group financial statements Subsidiaries 1.
Significant accounting policies Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists Basis of preparation when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
for use in the European Union EU adopted IFRS in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 and those parts of the Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Companies Act 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare the parent date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Accounting companys financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
policies of subsidiaries acquired have been changed where These are presented on pages 79 to 81. necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis see Directors report on page 42 and on Transactions eliminated on consolidation the historical cost basis except where adopted IFRSs require an Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains alternative treatment.
The principal variations to historical cost and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated relate to pensions IAS 19 and certain financial instruments in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Sterling is the functional currency of the parent Foreign currencies company, McBride plc.
All financial information presented has In line with the exemption permitted under IFRS 1, the Group been rounded to the nearest 0.1 million.
elected to reset the foreign currency translation reserve to zero at 1 July 2004, the date of transition.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported functional currency of Group entities at the rate ruling at the date amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rate of experience and various other factors that are believed to be exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form on translation are recognised in the income statement.
The income the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and expenses of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
sterling are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an at the closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired that year: or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision company and recorded initially at the transaction date exchange affects both current and future years.
rate and thereafter at the closing rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and Differences arising on retranslation are taken directly to a estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next separate component of equity.
Exchange differences arising from year are discussed on page 58. the retranslation of a net investment in a foreign operation less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings which The accounting policies set out below have been applied effectively hedge that operation are taken to equity.
On disposal consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
of a foreign operation, accumulated exchange differences are In addition the Group has adopted IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Limit on a recognised in the income statement as a component of the gain Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their or loss on disposal.
Interaction and the Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations.
Adoption of these standards Revenue did not have a material effect on the amounts recognised in the Revenue in the income statement represents the amounts, net of financial statements of the Group.
trade discounts and rebates and excluding value added tax, derived from the provision of goods to third party customers during the Basis of consolidation year.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, the amount of McBride plc the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings of revenue can be measured reliably and receipt of payment is collectively referred to as the Group.
probable, typically on delivery and acceptance of the goods by the customer.
McBride plc The figures 54 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements Exceptional items Dividend distribution The Group presents certain items as exceptional.
These are items Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding which they are declared and approved.
Interim dividends are of the financial information.
recognised in the period in which they are paid.
Income tax Intangible assets Current income tax Trade marks and patents Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and Trade marks and patents obtained on acquisition of businesses are deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement shown at fair value.
They have a finite useful life and are carried at except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation.
equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis up to three years.
expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and Brand names and customer relationships and lists any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Brand names and customer relationships and lists obtained on acquisition of businesses are shown at fair value.
They have Deferred income tax a finite useful life and are carried at fair value at the date Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, of acquisition less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets is calculated on a straight line basis over their economic life, and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts typically of up to five years.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill and the initial Computer software recognition of assets or liabilities not in business combinations Computer software is carried at cost less any accumulated that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
amortisation or any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences relating straight line basis over their useful economic lives of three to five to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse years.
Costs relating to development of computer software for in the foreseeable future.
Hence, deferred tax in relation to internal use are capitalised once the recognition criteria are met.
investment in subsidiaries is only provided for known remittances When the software is available for its intended use, these costs are at the balance sheet date.
amortised over the estimated useful life of the software.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Goodwill that future taxable profit will be available against which the In line with the exemption permitted under IFRS 1 the Group elected temporary differences can be utilised.
to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations prospectively from 1 July 2004 the transition date rather than restate previous business The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at combinations.
As a result the carrying amount of goodwill in the each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Group balance sheet at 1 July 2004 has been brought forward longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to without adjustment.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 July 2004, allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Groups Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax previous accounting framework.
rates that are enacted or substantively enacted in respect of the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Goodwill represents the excess of cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of identifiable net assets and Net financing costs contingent liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on bank loans, Goodwill on acquisitions is included in intangible assets.
When the overdrafts and finance leases, fair value gains and interest on excess is negative negative goodwill, it is recognised immediately differentials on derivatives, interest receivable on funds invested, in the income statement.
expected return on pension assets and the interest cost on pension scheme liabilities.
The Group assesses the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Segments indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is is allocated to cash generating units, these being the Groups engaged in providing products or services business segment, operating divisions which represent the lowest level within the or in providing products or services within a particular economic Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management environment geographic segment, which is subject to risks and purposes and for impairment testing.
rewards that are different from those of other segments.
McBride plc The figures 55 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Notes to the Group financial statements continued assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether 1.
Significant accounting policies continued there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indication exists, Property, plant and equipment the assets recoverable amount is estimated and if this is found to be Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated less than the carrying amount, then the carrying amount is reduced depreciation and any impairment in value.
An impairment charge is recognised in Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis and charged the income statement in the year in which it occurs and is applied to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the first against the goodwill attributable to the relevant cash asset as follows: generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the Freehold buildings over 50 years estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value Leasehold buildings life of the lease using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate reflecting the risks Plant and machinery 8 to 10 years inherent in the asset.
Computer equipment 3 to 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each Moulding equipment 3 to 5 years reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate reassessed at each reporting date and revised if necessary.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the income statement.
asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in relation to exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated goodwill are not reversed for subsequent increases in its recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Leased assets Assets that are being constructed for future use are classified as Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the assets in the course of construction until they are completed.
Upon risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are completion they are transferred to the appropriate category within capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the property, plant and equipment.
No depreciation is charged on these leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease items until after they have been transferred.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a Research and development constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or assets are classified as operating leases.
substantially improved products and processes is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Inventories Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary and overhead costs that are directly attributable to preparing the course of business less estimated costs of completion and the asset for its intended use.
estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are Capitalised development expenditure is measured at cost less accounted for as follows: accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Raw materials purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Impairment For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at Finished goods and work in progress cost of direct materials and the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on flows cash generating units.
At each balance sheet date, the Group normal operating capacity.
reviews the carrying amounts of its assets e. g. goodwill, intangible McBride plc The figures 56 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements Cash and cash equivalents A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within months or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow the Groups control.
Contingent assets are not recognised but are statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when an inflow equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts, of economic benefits is probable.
When an inflow is virtually certain, if these are repayable on demand and part of the Groups cash an asset is recognised.
Derivative financial instruments Employee benefits The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
In respect of defined benefit pension schemes, the pension surplus The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its between the fair value of plan assets and the present value of the risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The net defined relating to certain firm commitments and highly probable benefit obligation is determined using assumptions determined by forecasted transactions.
Such derivative financial instruments are the Group by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit stated at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is actuarial valuation method.
The income statement charge is split calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts with between an operating service cost and financing income and charge.
The fair value of interest rate swap Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar statement of recognised income and expense.
instruments and is the amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date.
Changes in fair Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an value are immediately recognised in the income statement except expense as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable where hedge accounting is applicable see below.
in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Hedge accounting Cash flow hedge Provisions For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the forecasted transaction.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected In relation to cash flow hedges where forward foreign currency future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market contracts are used to hedge firm commitments which meet the assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with non-monetary asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and is recognised, the associated gain or loss that had previously been borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using recognised in equity is included in the initial measurement of the the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Costs capitalised on initial recognition are amortised For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are on the finance expense line in the income statement, and are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in written-off on derecognition of the liability.
the same period in which the hedged firm commitment affects the income statement, for example when the future cash flow Contingent liabilities and assets actually occurs.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer wholly within the control of the Group.
Unless the possibility of qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point, any cumulative gain or outflow in settlement is remote, a contingent liability is not loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no When an outflow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision.
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
McBride plc The figures 57 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Notes to the Group financial statements continued Intangible assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets are fair valued on the acquisition of businesses.
Hedging of net investment The method uses the weighted average cost of capital adjusted to Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a reflect the risk that a particular acquisition would have for a market financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a participant.
Typically, cash flows are prepared for at least five years foreign operation are recognised directly in equity to the extent using the after tax cash flow.
These cash flows are then adjusted that the hedge is effective.
To the extent the hedge is ineffective, to reflect managements judgement for risk.
Where a brand is such differences are recognised in the income statement.
On the identified as having future value then the value is ascertained disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative amount in equity is by use of a post-tax royalty cash flow over the five years.
transferred to the income statement as an adjustment to the gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed when an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary.
Share capital Examples of such triggering events include a significant planned Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, purchases its own shares, the consideration paid including any expectations of future operating losses or a significant reduction directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from the equity in cash flows.
attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Pension and other post employment benefits The Groups defined benefit pension schemes and similar Treasury shares arrangements are assessed at least annually in accordance with Own equity instruments which are reacquired Treasury shares are IAS 19.
The accounting valuation, which is based on assumptions deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income taking into account independent actuarial advice, resulted in a statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups pre-tax deficit of 16.7 million 2008: 7.9m being recognised on own equity instruments.
the balance sheet at 30 June 2009.
The size of the deficit is sensitive to the market value of the assets held by the schemes, the discount Share-based payments rate used, actuarial liabilities, mortality and other demographic The Group has adopted the exemption permitted in IFRS 1 to apply assumptions and the level of contributions.
Further details including IFRS 2, Share-based payments, only to share-based payment awards sensitivities are disclosed in note 19. granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005.
Provisions The Group operates both equity-settled and cash-settled shareAs described in the policy above, the Group measures provisions at based compensation plans.
Equity-settled share-based payments the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The amount the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Estimates are made taking recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number account of information available and different possible outcomes.
of share options that vest unless the options do not vest as a result Further details are disclosed in note 18. of a failure to satisfy market conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a relevant pricing model by an external valuer.
Further details Deferred tax assets are given in note 23.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against For cash-settled share-based payments a liability is recognised based which the losses can be utilised.
Management judgement is required on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date.
to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable Accounting judgements and estimates profits together with future tax planning strategies.
Further details Management discussed with the audit committee the development, are disclosed in note 8. selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and judgements and the application of them.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 30 June 2009 was 29.7 million 2008: 36.0m.
Further details including sensitivities are given in note 11.
McBride plc The figures 58 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements Accounting Standards issued but not adopted The following standard has been issued by the IASB, is yet to be The following standards have been issued by the IASB and endorsed endorsed by the EU and has not been early adopted this year: by the EU but have not been early adopted this year: Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition IFRS 8 Operating Segments introduces a management and Measurement Eligible hedged items provide additional reporting approach to segment reporting.
The information clarification on what items can qualify for hedge accounting, reported would be that which management uses internally for assessing hedge effectiveness and designating financial items evaluating the performance of operating segments and as hedged items.
These amendments which become mandatory allocating resources to those segments.
It replaces disclosure for the Groups 2010 financial statements are currently being requirements in IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements.
The Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact on its Exchange rates disclosures of adopting IFRS 8.
There will be no impact on the The exchange rates against sterling used for the periods were Groups reported profit or net assets.
as follows: Average rate Closing rate Revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires 2009 2008 2009 2008 changes in the format of financial statements and permits some Euro 1.17 1.37 1.17 1.26 changes in terminology.
The impact of Revised IAS 1, which Polish Zloty 4.67 4.95 5.24 4.23 becomes mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements Czech Koruna 30.4 36.1 30.5 30.2 will necessitate changes to the existing presentation of the Hungarian Forint 315.1 346.8 319.9 297.0 consolidated financial statements.
Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs requires borrowings directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, to be capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Revised IAS 23 which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements is not expected to materially affect the consolidated financial statements.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and Revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements changes the accounting for business combinations and transactions with minorities.
These standards which are mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements are only to be applied prospectively and therefore there is no restatement of transactions prior to the effective date.
The impact of the revised standard is expected to lead to changes in the Groups accounting treatment of acquisition costs, which are currently included within goodwill, but will need to be expensed.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements provides exemptions from the requirement to classify as a liability for certain financial instruments under which an entity has an unavoidable obligation to deliver cash, and sets out detailed definitions and circumstances that must be met before these exemptions are available.
These amendments which become mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements are being considered.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net investment in a Foreign Operation clarifies when net investment hedging can be applied.
IFRIC 16 which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2010 financial statements is currently being considered.
McBride plc The figures 59 Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the Group financial statements The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
