Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 125 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, YOUR STOCKBROKER, BANK, SOLICITOR, ACCOUNTANT, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under FUND MANAGER OR OTHER APPROPRIATE INDEPENDENT the laws of, any territory or any other matter, FINANCIAL ADVISER.
such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next Annual If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Melrose General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until Industries PLC you should send this document as soon as possible the close of business on 30 June 2014 but, in each case, so that to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery the authority expires which would, or might, require shares to be to the purchaser or transferee.
allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority expires and so that the Directors may Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company allot shares or grant rights under any such offer or agreement as if will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood the authority had not expired.
Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am on 8 May 2013 for the following purposes.
Resolutions 1 to 14 will be proposed as Special resolutions ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 to 17 as special resolutions.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 14, the Directors be and are generally Ordinary resolutions empowered to allot equity securities as dened in the Act for cash 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for the pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 14 and or to sell financial year ended 31 December 2012, together with the Directors ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by the Company report and the auditors report on those financial statements.
as treasury shares for cash in each case free of the restriction in section 561 1 of the Act, such power to be limited: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration report contained in the Companys Annual Report and financial statements for the year A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares ended 31 December 2012. for cash in connection with an offer of equity securities but in 3.
To declare a final dividend of 5p per ordinary share for the year the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by ended 31 December 2012. paragraph B of resolution 14, such power shall be limited to 4.
To re-elect Mr Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by 5.
To re-elect Mr David Roper as a Director of the Company.
way of a rights issue only : 6.
To re-elect Mr Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be 7.
To re-elect Mr Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect Mr Miles Templeman as a Director of the Company.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the 9.
To re-elect Mr Perry Crosthwaite as a Director of the Company.
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the 10.
To re-elect Mr John Grant as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions 12.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold ofce and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, Annual General Meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under 13.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and auditor of the Company.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be B to the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set out in and are generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the paragraph A of this resolution of equity securities pursuant to powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution 14 and or rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the the sale of treasury shares for cash up to a nominal amount of Company: 63,331, A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 422,209: and B comprising equity securities as dened in section 560 1 of the such power to apply until the end of the Companys next Annual Companies Act 2006 the Act up to an aggregate nominal General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the amount of 844,418 such amount to be reduced by the close of business on 30 June 2014 but so that the Company may aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants made make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires under paragraph A of this resolution in connection with an which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted or offer by way of a rights issue: treasury shares to be sold after the power expires and so that the i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be Directors may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under practicable to their existing holdings: and any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, Melrose Industries PLC 126 Annual Report 2012 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 16.
That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally Notes authorised to make one or more market purchases within the 1.
The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to attend meaning of section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares in the capital the Annual General Meeting and are entitled to vote.
A member of the Company provided that: entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
Such a member may appoint more than one A the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights to be purchased is 126,662,703: attached to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the B the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share Company.
shall not be less than the nominal value of an ordinary share at the time of such purchase: 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a C the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with any not more than the higher of: power of attorney or authority under which it is completed or a i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotation certied copy of such power or authority, so that it is received by for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock the Companys registrars at the address specified on the form of Exchange plcs Daily Ofcial List for the five business days proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share a working day before the time for holding the meeting.
Returning a is purchased: and completed form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the the meeting and voting in person.
highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a in each case, exclusive of expenses: Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the shareholder by whom he was nominated, have a right to be D this authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting of the Company following the passing of this resolution Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2014 : appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any E the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder shares under this authority before expiry of the authority which as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs that authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights pursuance of any such contract: and described in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by ordinary F any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may shareholders of the Company.
either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of action is considered by the 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the 17.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
the Companys register of members by 6.00 pm on 6 May 2013 or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days Registered Ofce: before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries Precision House on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded Arden Road in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Alcester meeting.
As at 4 April 2013, the Companys issued share capital consists Joff Crawford of 1,266,627,036 ordinary shares of 0.1p each, carrying one vote Company Secretary each.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 12.
Any member holding ordinary shares attending the meeting has CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specications, but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere and must contain the information required for such instruction, unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
of condential information: b the answer has already been given com CREST.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the given to a previously appointed proxy, must in order to be valid be meeting that the question be answered.
transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00 am on 6 May 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST 14.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either this Notice in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of Annual General Meeting or any related documents including the of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purposes communicated to the appointee through other means.
other than those expressly stated.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, 15.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Companys registered ofce during normal business hours Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, during the meeting: if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored A copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries: that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such and action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted B a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this Directors of the Company.
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations 16.
You may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website at of the CREST system and timings.
In order to register your vote online, you will need to enter the Task ID, together with your Voting ID and Shareholder Reference Number which are set out on the enclosed 9.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the Proxy Form.
The return of the Proxy Form by post or registering your circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated vote online will not prevent you from attending the Annual General Securities Regulations 2001.
Meeting and voting in person, should you wish.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis online 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and then powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to clicking on the link to vote under their Melrose Industries PLC the same shares.
The on-screen instructions give details on how to complete the appointment process.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those requirements set out in that section have the right to require the provided or if received after 11.00 am on 6 May 2013.
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
