Melrose Industries PLC 76 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information Melrose Industries PLC the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 128.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in the Divisional review on pages 16 to 26.
Following shareholder approval on 5 November 2012, a Scheme of Arrangement was sanctioned by the High Court of England and Wales on 26 November 2012, pursuant to which a new listed company was introduced for the Melrose Group of companies.
The Scheme of Arrangement became effective on 27 November 2012 and Melrose Industries PLC became the new holding company of Melrose PLC and its subsidiaries by way of a share exchange.
The Scheme of Arrangement resulting in Melrose Industries PLC becoming the new holding company for the Group has been accounted for in these consolidated financial statements as a reverse asset acquisition using the principles of reverse acquisition accounting set out in IFRS 3: Business combinations.
As a consequence of applying reverse acquisition accounting principles, the consolidated results of Melrose Industries PLC the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the results of Melrose PLC and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2012 consolidated with those of Melrose Industries PLC from 27 November 2012.
The comparative gures for the Group are those of the Group headed by Melrose PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 except for the presentation of the Issued share capital, Share premium account, Merger reserve, Other reserves and Capital redemption reserve balances which have been restated to reect the reserves position of the Group as if Melrose Industries PLC had been the parent company during both periods presented.
On 23 January 2013, Melrose PLC changed its name to Melrose Limited.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised in accordance with a resolution of the Directors of Melrose Industries PLC on 6 March 2013.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company is based.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2011 in these financial statements has been restated to include the results and cash ows of MPC, previously disclosed within the Other Industrial segment, within discontinued operations and exclude them from continuing operations.
1.1 New Standards and Interpretations affecting amounts, presentation or disclosure reported in the current period During the period, the Group adopted two amended Standards and Interpretations, neither of which signicantly affected the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Details of the Standards and Interpretations that were adopted are set out in section 1.2.
1.2 New Standards and Interpretations adopted with no significant effect on financial statements The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRS 7 amended : Financial instruments disclosures IAS 12 amended : Deferred tax recovery of underlying assets 1.3 New Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations are in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 amended : Presentation of items of other comprehensive income IAS 32 amended : Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IAS 19 revised : Employee benets IAS 27 revised : Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised : Investments in associates and joint ventures IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended : Investment entities IFRS 1 amended : Government loans IFRS 7 amended : Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11: Joint arrangements IFRS 12: Disclosure of interest in other entities IFRS 13: Fair value measurement IFRIC 20: Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 Cycle Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Corporate information continued The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application, except as follows: IAS 19 revised will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the dened benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
Following the adoption of IAS 19 revised, effective from 1 January 2013, the net retirement benefit obligation in the Balance Sheet will not be impacted but the net finance and operating costs of pensions, within the Income Statement, will increase.
This will reduce profit before tax for the year by approximately 10 million but will accordingly increase Other Comprehensive Income by the same amount.
The net effect on Total Comprehensive Income for the year will be nil.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments which are recognised at fair value.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for these assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are consistent with the prior year and are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of the parent undertaking and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of businesses acquired during the period are included from the effective date of acquisition and for those sold during the period to the effective date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identied separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the share of the fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors statement of going concern on page 54 of the Directors report.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the fair value of assets given, the liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange of control and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
The acquired identiable assets and liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition except those where specic guidance is provided by IFRSs.
Non-current assets and directly attributable liabilities that are classied as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Also, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12: Income taxes, liabilities and assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19: Employee benets and liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payments awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts where appropriate.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities recognised, to reect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum period of one year.
Melrose Industries PLC 78 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units acquired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
When there is a disposal of a cash-generating unit, goodwill relating to the operation disposed of is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of that operation.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the operation retained.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity which is not a subsidiary undertaking but the interest of the Group is that of a partner in a business over which the Group exercises joint control.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Where percentage of completion accounting is applied and where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the Balance Sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benets will ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Exceptional costs income Exceptional costs income are those costs income of a significant and non-recurring nature or those associated with significant restructuring programmes or acquisitions or disposals.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after exceptional operating costs and income, intangible asset amortisation and the Groups share of results of joint ventures, but before finance income and finance costs.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specic borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Issue costs of loans The finance cost recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the issue costs of borrowings is allocated to periods over the terms of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, and any costs directly attributable to bring the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Short leasehold property over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 3-12 years The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists an impairment review is performed and, where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds or costs and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Income Statement in the year that the item is derecognised.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
On acquisition of businesses, separately identiable intangible assets are determined in relation to the specic circumstances of the business acquired and are valued on an appropriate basis.
Access to the use of patented technology and trade names are valued using a relief from royalty method which determines the net present value of future additional cash ows arising from the use of the intangible asset.
Customer relationships are valued on the basis of the net present value of the future additional cash ows arising from customer relationships with appropriate allowance for attrition of customers.
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets are: Computer software 5 years or less Patented technology 5 years or less Customer relationships 20 years or less Trade names 20 years or less Computer software is initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Computer software assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are measured on a similar basis to property, plant and equipment.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Melrose Industries PLC 80 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs relating to clearly dened and identiable development projects are capitalised when there is a technical degree of exploitation, adequacy of resources and a potential market or development possibility in the undertaking that are recognisable: and where it is the intention to produce, market or execute the project.
A correlation must also exist between the costs incurred and future benets and those costs can be measured reliably.
Capitalised expenses are expensed on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of five years or less.
Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed as incurred.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and appropriate production overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provisions are made for obsolescence or other expected losses where necessary.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
The carrying amount of other receivables is reduced by the impairment loss directly and a charge is recorded in the Income Statement.
For trade receivables, the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account and changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables that are assessed not to be impaired individually are also assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting receipts, an increase in the number of delayed receipts in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions and short-term deposits which are readily convertible to cash which are subject to insignicant risks of changes in value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant periods.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity risks, arising from operating and nancing activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 24 of the financial statements.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in note 25.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Their fair value is recalculated at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment for the resulting gain or loss will depend on whether the derivative meets the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on the revaluation to fair value at the period end are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where derivatives do meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss on revaluation depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of less than one year from the period end date are classied as current in the Balance Sheet.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument and to show that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments as either fair value hedges, cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Fair value hedge Derivative financial instruments are classied as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash ow hedge Derivative financial instruments are classied as cash ow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to the variability in cash ows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted cash ow.
The effective portion of any gain or loss from revaluing the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement or the hedged relationship is discontinued.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Derivative financial instruments are classied as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from revaluing the derivative at a reporting period end is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised immediately in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of or the hedged relationship is discontinued.
Melrose Industries PLC 82 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a rate that reects the current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Restructurings A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by either starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligation.
Onerous contracts Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benets expected to be received under it.
Environmental liabilities Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Employee benets Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
The accounting policy for pensions and other retirement benets is described below.
The Group also operates long term incentive plans LTIPs for Directors and certain employees.
The expected settlement costs of these plans are expensed on a straight-line basis over the life of the plans.
Pensions and other retirement benets The Group operates dened benefit pension plans and dened contribution plans, some of which require contributions to be made to administered funds separate from the Group.
In some jurisdictions, funds are not administered separately from the Group but appropriate liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet.
For the dened benefit pension and retirement benefit plans, plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Any assets resulting from this calculation are limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The service cost of providing pension and other retirement benets to employees for the period is charged to the Income Statement.
A charge representing the unwinding of the discount on the plan liabilities during the period is included within finance costs.
A credit representing the expected return on the plan assets during the period is included within finance costs.
This credit is based on the market value of the plan assets, and expected rates of return, at the beginning of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the period: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For dened contribution plans, contributions payable are charged to the Income Statement as they fall due as an operating expense.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Nonmonetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates uctuate signicantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the related operation is disposed of.
Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised but they are not reclassied to the Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Taxation The tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the period and represents the sum of the tax paid or currently payable and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: t where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and t where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: t where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and t in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Melrose Industries PLC 84 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and not in the Income Statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: t where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and t where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of the equity instrument excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Directors best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Government grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Non-current assets and businesses held for sale Non-current assets and businesses classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and businesses are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or business is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In applying the Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2, management have made critical accounting judgements.
These include the quantication of the fair value of assets and liabilities following the acquisition of Elster along with the valuation of intangible assets also acquired.
In addition, the impairment of non-current assets, the quantication of provisions and the valuation of retirement benefit obligations and taxation require management judgements.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making assumptions and estimates, actual outcomes may differ from those assumptions and estimates.
An analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is provided below.
Fair values at acquisition Following the acquisition of Elster, management have made judgements regarding the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired particularly in relation to provisions and intangible assets.
The fair value of these assets and liabilities are shown in note 12. Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Intangible assets The valuation of intangible assets requires management to estimate the net present value of future cash ows arising from customer relationships after estimating the attrition factor relevant to the customer relationship and other factors such as access to the workforce, which are appropriate to the determination of the additional cash ows.
The valuation of intangible assets in respect of brand names requires management to estimate future cash ows using a relief from royalty model.
Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired and at least annually.
Such events and circumstances include the effects of restructuring initiated by management.
To determine whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and other intangible assets has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value.
Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long term growth prevalent in a particular market as well as short and medium term business plans.
Management draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
The carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets including computer software and development costs at the Balance Sheet date was 3,019.5 million 31 December 2011: 906.1 million.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group recognised no impairment loss in respect of these assets.
Provisions The quantication of certain liabilities within provisions environmental remediation obligations and future costs and settlements in relation to certain legal claims have been estimated using the best information available.
However, such liabilities depend on the actions of third parties and on the specic circumstances pertaining to each obligation, neither of which is controlled by the Group.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Further details are set out in note 20.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benets are accounted for under IAS 19: Employee benets.
For dened benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
Because of changing market and economic conditions, the expenses and liabilities actually arising under the plans in the future may differ materially from the estimates made on the basis of these actuarial assumptions.
Therefore, declining returns on equity markets and markets for xed-income instruments could necessitate additional contributions to the plans in order to cover future pension obligations.
Also, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life of participants may have an impact on the amount of pension income or expense recorded in the future.
The discount rate used to discount retirement benefit obligations to present value is derived from the yields of senior, high-quality corporate bonds at the Balance Sheet date.
These generally include AA-rated securities.
The discount rate is based on the market yield of a portfolio of bonds whose weighted residual maturities approximately correspond to the duration necessary to cover the entire benefit obligation.
Pension and other retirement benets are inherently long term and future experience may differ from the actuarial assumptions used to determine the net charge for retirement benefit obligations.
Note 23 to these consolidated financial statements describes the principal discount rate, earnings increase and pension retirement benefit obligation assumptions that have been used to determine the net charge for retirement benefit obligations in accordance with IAS 19.
The calculation of any charge relating to retirement benefit obligations is clearly dependent on the assumptions used, which reects the exercise of judgement.
The assumptions adopted are based on prior experience, market conditions and the advice of plan actuaries.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups retirement benefit obligation deficit was 261.3 million 31 December 2011: 117.7 million.
Further details on the sensitivities and assumptions are discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages 33 and 34.
Taxation The Group is subject to income tax in most of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is required to exercise judgement in determining the Groups provision for income taxes.
Managements judgement is required in estimating tax provisions where additional current tax may become payable in the future following the audit by the tax authorities of previously led tax returns.
Managements judgement is also required as to whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised based on the availability of future taxable profits.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Melrose Industries PLC 86 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue, as dened by IAS 18, is as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue from the sale of goods 1,542.2 1,048.9 Revenue recognised on long-term contracts 9.2 31.5 Revenue 5 1,551.4 1,080.4 Finance income 7 11.0 10.0 Total revenue from continuing operations as defined by IAS 18 1,562.4 1,090.4 Discontinued operations Revenue from the sale of goods 35.9 250.9 Revenue recognised on long-term contracts 0.4 Revenue 5,9 35.9 251.3 Finance income 0.5 Total revenue from discontinued operations as defined by IAS 18 35.9 251.8 Total revenue as defined by IAS 18 1,598.3 1,342.2 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
Segment information Segment information is presented in accordance with IFRS 8: Operating segments which requires operating segments to be identied on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reported to the Groups Board in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Groups reportable operating segments under IFRS 8 are as follows: t Energy t Lifting t Other Industrial t Elster Gas, Electricity, Water The Energy segment incorporates the Brush and Marelli business units, specialist suppliers of energy industrial products to the global market.
The Lifting segment consists of the businesses of Bridon, Crosby and Acco, serving oil & gas production, mining, petrochemical, alternative energy and general construction markets.
The Other Industrial segment consists primarily of the businesses of Truth and Harris, serving the housing and steel recycling markets.
During the year, Elster was acquired as detailed in note 12.
This has resulted in additional Elster segments being recognised of Gas, Electricity and Water along with their associated central costs.
These businesses serve residential and industrial metering and utilisation markets whilst providing related communications, networking and software solutions.
There are two central cost centres which are also separately reported to the Board: t Central corporate 1 t Central LTIPs 1 Long Term Incentive Plans.
The Central corporate cost centre contains the Melrose Group head ofce costs whilst the Central LTIPs cost centre contains the costs associated with the previous Melrose Incentive Plan crystallised on 22 March 2012, the new five year Melrose Incentive Plan granted on 11 April 2012 and the divisional management LTIPs that are in operation across the Group.
The discontinued segment incorporates the Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico, Weber Knapp and MPC businesses in 2011 and MPC in 2012.
Transfer prices between business units are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment information continued The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups non-current assets and, for revenue, the location of external customers.
Inter-segment sales are not material and have not been included in the analysis below.
The following tables present revenue, profit, and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the comparative period.
Note 6 gives details of exceptional costs and income.
Segment revenues and results Segment revenue from external customers 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Notes m m Continuing operations Energy 486.8 461.6 Lifting 524.4 484.4 Other Industrial 129.1 134.4 2 Elster 411.1 Total continuing operations 4 1,551.4 1,080.4 Discontinued operations 4,9 35.9 251.3 Total revenue 1,587.3 1,331.7 1 Restated to include the revenues of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 Elster revenue comprises: Gas 236.9 million, Electricity 106.8 million and Water 67.4 million.
Segment result 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Notes m m Continuing operations Energy 93.4 91.1 Lifting 95.2 82.6 Other Industrial 17.0 16.5 2 Elster 57.8 Central corporate 11.8 9.2 3 Central LTIPs 8.5 6.8 4 Headline operating profit 243.1 174.2 Intangible asset amortisation 39.1 23.7 Exceptional operating costs 6 73.9 40.0 Exceptional operating income 6 7.0 Operating profit 137.1 110.5 4 Finance costs headline 7 39.8 29.5 Finance costs exceptional 6,7 16.3 Finance income 7 11.0 10.0 Profit before tax 92.0 91.0 Tax 8 49.1 19.1 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 9 1.3 176.4 Profit for the year 44.2 286.5 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 4 Elster headline operating profit comprises: Gas 46.7 million, Electricity 12.6 million, Water 1.4 million, and Elster central costs 2.9 million.
4 As dened on the Income Statement.
Melrose Industries PLC 88 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued Total assets Total liabilities 1 1 Restated Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Energy 630.3 641.0 227.9 231.6 Lifting 769.6 767.3 206.7 212.3 Other Industrial 78.2 79.1 23.3 24.8 2 Elster 2,728.2 915.0 Central corporate 209.9 251.7 1,281.3 632.2 3 Central LTIPs 20.3 15.3 Total continuing operations 4,416.2 1,739.1 2,674.5 1,116.2 Discontinued operations 42.4 16.9 Total 4,416.2 1,781.5 2,674.5 1,133.1 1 Restated to include the total assets and total liabilities of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 Elster total assets comprises: Gas 2,127.5 million, Electricity 335.6 million, Water 240.1 million and Elster central 25.0 million.
Elster total liabilities comprises: Gas 594.4 million, Electricity 118.1 million, Water 154.7 million and Elster central 47.8 million.
1 1 Capital expenditure Depreciation 2 2 Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Continuing operations Energy 10.9 11.4 7.5 7.9 Lifting 30.4 21.3 9.9 8.8 Other Industrial 3.8 2.0 3.4 4.3 3 Elster 9.0 9.1 Central corporate 0.9 0.6 0.6 Total continuing operations 55.0 34.7 30.5 21.6 Discontinued operations 1.7 8.1 0.9 5.6 Total 56.7 42.8 31.4 27.2 1 Including computer software and development costs.
2 1 1 Restated to include the capital expenditure and depreciation of MPC within discontinued operations.
3 Elster capital expenditure comprises: Gas 5.5 million, Electricity 1.5 million and Water 2.0 million.
Elster depreciation comprises: Gas 5.1 million, Electricity 2.0 million and Water 2.0 million.
Geographical information The Group operates in various geographical areas around the world.
The Groups country of domicile is the UK and the Groups revenues and noncurrent assets in Europe and North America are also considered to be material.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets and non-current trade and other receivables by geographical location are detailed below: 1 Revenue from external customers Non-current assets 2 Restated 2 Year ended year ended Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m UK 143.4 129.3 414.2 348.9 Europe 445.8 280.8 1,724.5 321.7 North America 651.4 463.2 1,118.4 422.2 Other 310.8 207.1 81.3 10.5 Total continuing operations 1,551.4 1,080.4 3,338.4 1,103.3 Discontinued operations 35.9 251.3 18.1 Total 1,587.3 1,331.7 3,338.4 1,121.4 1 Revenue is presented by destination.
2 Restated to include the revenue and non-current assets of MPC within discontinued operations.
Exceptional costs and income 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Exceptional costs m m Continuing operations Restructuring costs 54.4 15.9 Acquisition, disposal and financing costs operating 19.5 3.1 financing 16.3 Increase in legal provision 21.0 Total exceptional costs 90.2 40.0 Total exceptional costs operating 73.9 40.0 Total exceptional costs financing 16.3 Total exceptional costs 90.2 40.0 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
During 2012, the Group incurred 54.4 million 2011: 15.9 million of costs relating to restructuring programmes, of which 52.5 million occurred in the second half of the year.
These costs include 9.1 million relating to the closure of the old Elster head ofce along with 27.9 million of other restructuring costs occurring within several of the key Elster businesses.
These include reorganising the Gas and Electricity businesses into global operations and the closure of underperforming parts of the Water business.
In addition, 11.1 million of surplus leasehold property costs have been identied during the year and 6.3 million of restructuring costs have been incurred in the old Melrose businesses, in particular within the Lifting division and the corporate restructure in respect of the new holding company.
The 2011 restructuring costs of 15.9 million related to programmes within the Energy and Lifting divisions.
Operating acquisition and disposal costs relate primarily to the costs incurred in acquiring Elster.
In 2011, costs associated with acquisitions and disposals consisted predominantly of the expenses arising during an aborted acquisition process and the costs associated with the return of capital following the disposal of Dynacast.
Financing exceptional costs relate to the debt renancing performed in January 2012 and subsequently in August 2012 where the amortisation of capitalised debt finance costs were accelerated and interest rate swaps were closed out early.
In addition, these costs also include a proportion of the make whole premium charged upon the redemption of the Eurobond inherited on the acquisition of Elster.
The increase in the legal provision in 2011 related to a product liability claim involving Bridon.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2012 Exceptional income m m Continuing operations Pension curtailment gain 7.0 Total exceptional income 7.0 During 2012, a number of amendments were made to Elster retirement medical benets and retirement life insurance benets in the US.
These removed 7.0 million of liabilities resulting in a curtailment gain on these plans.
Melrose Industries PLC 90 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Revenues and expenses Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Net operating expenses comprise: m m m m m m Selling and distribution costs 113.1 76.7 1.5 8.0 114.6 84.7 Administration expenses 167.2 103.5 0.9 14.1 168.1 117.6 Share of results of joint ventures note 14 0.8 0.8 Other operating costs exceptional note 6 73.9 40.0 0.1 73.9 40.1 Other operating income exceptional note 6 7.0 7.0 Total net operating expenses 346.4 220.2 2.4 22.2 348.8 242.4 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Operating profit is stated after charging: m m m m m m Depreciation and impairment 29.0 22.8 0.9 5.4 29.9 28.2 Cost of inventories 1,067.9 749.7 31.0 196.6 1,098.9 946.3 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 12 39.1 23.7 1.4 39.1 25.1 Amortisation of computer software and development costs note 12 2.4 0.6 0.2 2.4 0.8 Operating lease expense 10.7 7.7 0.4 2.9 11.1 10.6 2 Staff costs 354.3 277.2 5.5 58.5 359.8 335.7 2 Research and development costs 7.6 2.0 7.6 2.0 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Impairment recognised on trade receivables 0.8 0.7 0.1 0.8 0.8 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 Staff costs include 12.7 million of research and development related costs in continuing operations.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.3 0.8 Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Elster acquisition Balance Sheet 0.4 Fees payable to the previous auditor of Elster 0.2 Total fees payable for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.9 0.8 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other audit services to the Group: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.5 0.6 Total audit fees 3.4 1.4 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Revenues and expenses continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Audit-related assurance services 0.5 0.1 Taxation compliance services 0.2 0.4 Other taxation advisory services 0.3 0.5 Corporate finance services 1.7 1.7 Other services 0.2 0.1 Total non-audit fees 2.9 2.8 Fees for the audit of the Companys annual accounts represent fees payable to Deloitte LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys individual financial statements, the Groups consolidated financial statements and the audit of the acquisition Balance Sheets of Elster.
Corporate finance services include due diligence and other transaction related services.
Audit-related assurance services relate to the review of the half year interim statements and assurance services related to investment circulars issued for the acquisition of Elster and the new parent company.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Staff costs during the year including executive Directors : Wages and salaries 286.5 225.6 Social security costs 45.0 34.2 Pension costs defined benefit plans 1.2 0.4 defined contribution plans 13.1 10.2 2 LTIPs 8.5 6.8 Total continuing staff costs 354.3 277.2 3 Discontinued staff costs 5.5 58.5 Total staff costs 359.8 335.7 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
3 Includes nil million 2011: 0.2 million of dened benefit pension costs and 0.1 million 2011: 0.7 million of dened contribution pension costs.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive Directors Energy 3,320 3,341 Lifting 3,220 3,079 Other Industrial 1,001 1,076 2 Elster 6,857 Central corporate 33 33 Total continuing operations 14,431 7,529 Discontinued operations 342 2,478 Total average number of persons employed 14,773 10,007 1 Restated to include the employees of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 Elster average monthly number of persons employed comprises: Gas 4,017, Electricity 1,530 and Water 1,310.
Melrose Industries PLC 92 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Revenues and expenses continued 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Notes m m Finance costs and income Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 32.9 25.6 Amortisation of costs of raising finance 2.4 2.5 Net finance cost of pensions 3.6 0.3 Unwind of discount on provisions 20 0.9 1.1 2 Headline finance costs 39.8 29.5 Exceptional finance costs 6 16.3 Total finance costs 56.1 29.5 Finance income 4 11.0 10.0 Total continuing operations 45.1 19.5 3 Discontinued operations 9 0.2 Total net finance costs 45.1 19.3 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 As dened on the Income Statement.
3 Includes nil 2011: 0.2 million net finance cost of pensions.
The finance cost of pensions in the continuing Group is the interest cost on benefit obligations of 51.4 million net of the expected return on plan assets of 47.8million 2011: 52.6 million and 52.3 million respectively.
The interest cost on discontinued dened benefit obligations was nil and the expected return on plan assets for discontinued businesses was nil 2011: 0.2 million and nil respectively.
Tax Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Analysis of charge credit in year: m m m m m m Current tax 43.3 7.6 0.6 8.9 43.9 1.3 Deferred tax note 21 5.8 11.5 0.2 5.8 11.7 Total income tax charge credit 49.1 19.1 0.6 8.7 49.7 10.4 2 Tax charge on headline profit before tax 57.8 39.7 0.6 9.5 58.4 49.2 Exceptional tax charge credit 5.8 38.1 5.8 38.1 Tax credit on net exceptional items 13.1 7.6 13.1 7.6 Tax credit in respect of intangible asset amortisation 1.4 13.1 0.8 1.4 13.9 Total income tax charge credit 49.1 19.1 0.6 8.7 49.7 10.4 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2012 credit for the year ended 31 December 2011 includes an exceptional tax charge of 5.8 million 2011: credit of 38.1 million.
Of this charge, 4.2 million relates to restructuring that took place during the year and 1.6 million relates to businesses previously disposed.
In 2011, a credit of 28.6 million related to the change in the Companys expectation of the outcome of overseas tax audits inherited on the acquisition of FKI and a credit of 9.5 million related to the recognition of a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset during the period that was considered to be recoverable.
Tax continued The charge 2011: credit for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Income Statement as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax: Continuing operations 92.0 91.0 Discontinued operations note 9 2.5 32.7 94.5 123.7 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at weighted average rate 28.33% 2011: 27.62% 26.8 34.2 Tax effect of: Net permanent differences non-deductible items 6.9 1.7 Change to calculation of deferred tax liability on intangible asset 9.8 Effect of rate change on deferred tax liability on intangible asset 7.2 Temporary differences not recognised in deferred tax 4.4 0.6 Tax credits, withholding taxes and other rate differences 1.6 2.3 Prior year tax adjustments 5.6 3.9 Exceptional tax charge credit 5.8 38.1 Total tax charge credit for the year 49.7 10.4 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
The reconciliation has been performed at a blended Group tax rate of 28.33% 2011: 27.62% which represents the weighted average of the tax rates applying to taxable profits in the jurisdictions in which those profits arose.
This blended rate has increased in 2012 following the acquisition of the Elster businesses.
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, a tax credit of 2.7 million 2011: 16.8 million has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
This represents a tax credit of 4.9 million 2011: 12.0 million in respect of retirement benefit obligations, a tax charge of 1.6 million 2011: credit of 1.5 million in respect of movements on cash ow hedges and a tax charge of 0.6 million 2011: credit of 3.3 million in respect of the use of losses on items taken directly to reserves in prior years.
Melrose Industries PLC 94 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Discontinued operations Disposal of businesses On 25 June 2012, the Group disposed of MPC, a business acquired as part of the McKechnie acquisition in 2005, for cash consideration of 30.7 million.
The costs charged during the year associated with the disposal were 3.1 million and the loss on disposal in the year was 0.6 million.
There were no cumulative translation differences associated with this business to recycle upon disposal.
This business was previously classied within the Other Industrial segment and is now shown within discontinued operations.
Financial performance of discontinued operations: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Revenue 35.9 251.3 Operating costs 33.4 217.3 2 Headline operating profit 2.5 34.0 Intangible asset amortisation 1.4 3 Exceptional items 0.1 Net finance income 0.2 Profit before tax 2.5 32.7 2 Headline tax 0.6 9.5 Tax on intangible asset amortisation 0.8 Profit after tax 1.9 24.0 Cumulative translation differences recycled on disposals 52.6 Loss gain on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 0.6 99.8 Profit for the period from discontinued operations 1.3 176.4 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 1.3 176.3 Non-controlling interests 0.1 1.3 176.4 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
3 Costs relating to the disposal of MPC incurred in 2011.
During the year, up until its sale on 25 June 2012, the MPC business contributed 35.9 million of revenue and 2.5 million of headline operating profit.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been restated to exclude the results and cashows of MPC from continuing operations and include them as discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations in 2011 also contain the results and cashows of the Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Weber Knapp and Madico businesses.
Discontinued operations continued The major classes of assets and liabilities disposed of with the MPC business were as follows: Discontinued operations m Goodwill and other intangible assets 3.8 Property, plant and equipment 15.1 Inventories 7.6 Trade and other receivables 19.8 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 Total assets disposed 47.5 Trade and other payables 18.0 Retirement benefit obligations 0.7 Tax 0.6 Total liabilities disposed 19.3 Net assets disposed 28.2 1 Cash consideration net of costs 27.6 Loss on disposal of businesses 0.6 1 Includes 3.1 million of disposal costs.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m 1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 paid of 7.0p 4.0p 34.8 1 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 paid of 4.6p 2.6p 18.0 1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 paid of 8.4p 4.8p 32.8 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 paid of 2.6p 32.9 65.7 52.8 1 Adjusted to include the effects of the Rights Issue note 11.
1 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 5.0p per share 2011: 4.8p per share totalling 63.3 million 2011: 32.8 million.
The final dividend of 5.0p was proposed by the Board on 6 March 2013 and, in accordance with IAS 10, has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
In addition to dividends paid, shareholders approved a 373.2 million return of capital on 8 August 2011 of which 372.1 million was paid on 19 August 2011 and 1.1 million was paid on 30 April 2012.
Melrose Industries PLC 96 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Earnings per share 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Earnings attributable to owners of the parent m m Profit for the purposes of earnings per share 42.5 286.4 Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations note 9 1.3 176.3 Earnings for basis of earnings per share from continuing operations 41.2 110.1 Continuing operations Intangible asset amortisation 39.1 23.7 Exceptional costs note 6 operating 73.9 40.0 Exceptional income note 6 operating 7.0 Exceptional costs note 6 financing 16.3 2 Exceptional tax 8.7 58.8 2 Earnings for basis of headline earnings per share from continuing operations 154.8 115.0 Discontinued operations Profit for the period from discontinued operations note 9 1.3 176.3 Loss profit on disposal of businesses 0.6 152.4 Intangible asset amortisation 1.4 Exceptional items note 9 0.1 Tax on intangible asset amortisation 0.8 2 Earnings for basis of headline earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 156.7 139.6 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
Number Number Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share including the effects of 1 the Rights Issue million 945.4 798.9 2 1 Further shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share including the effects of the Rights Issue million 15.3 52.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 960.7 851.7 1 On 1 August 2012, a 2 for 1, fully underwritten, Rights Issue was completed by Melrose PLC and subsequently 844.4 million new Melrose Ordinary Shares were issued raising 1.2 billion to part fund the acquisition of Elster Group S. E..
In accordance with IAS 33, a bonus factor associated with the issue of the new share capital of 57% has been applied to the number of Ordinary Shares including comparative periods presented for the purpose of earnings per share calculations.
2 Relating to the 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan and the previous Melrose Incentive Plan.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Earnings per share pence pence Basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 4.5 35.8 From continuing operations 4.4 13.8 From discontinued operations 0.1 22.0 Diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 4.4 33.6 From continuing operations 4.3 12.9 From discontinued operations 0.1 20.7 2 Headline basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 16.6 17.5 From continuing operations 16.4 14.4 2 Headline diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 16.3 16.4 3 From continuing operations 16.1 13.5 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations and to include the effects of the Rights Issue.
3 2 13.5p is the restated 2011 headline diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
The Board believe that 15.8p is a more appropriate measure to use for 2011 to compare 2 against 2012 performance being the headline diluted earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations adjusted to remove the earnings 4.8 million of the disposed business MPC.
As a result of the acquisition of Elster on 23 August 2012, other intangible assets of 862.6 million were identied.
Goodwill has been allocated to the business segments, each of which comprises several cash-generating units, as follows: 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Energy 244.2 247.3 Lifting 289.7 298.8 Other Industrial 18.3 19.2 2 Elster 1,284.7 Discontinued 3.2 1,836.9 568.5 1 Restated to include the goodwill of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 Elster goodwill comprises: Gas 1,062.6 million, Electricity 156.7 million and Water 65.4 million.
Melrose Industries PLC 98 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
The Group estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to each cash-generating unit.
The growth rates are based on a prudent estimate of long term industry growth forecasts.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts derived from financial budgets approved by management and extrapolates pre-tax cash ows based on estimated growth rates of 3% 2011: between 2% and 3%.
This rate does not exceed the average long term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The pre-tax discount rate applied is between 8% and 10% 2011: 9% and 10% depending on the risk elements associated with each cashgenerating unit.
The key assumptions used in forecasting pre-tax cash ows relate to future budgeted revenue and operating margins likely to be achieved and likely rates of long-term growth by market sector.
Budgeted revenue and operating margins are based on views on past performance, secured orders and orders likely to be achieved in the short to medium-term, given trends in the relevant market sector.
No impairment was identied and a reasonable possible change in the assumptions applied would not result in any impairment.
Acquisition of subsidiaries In line with the Groups strategy to acquire good manufacturing businesses with potential for improvements, on 23 August 2012 the Group acquired 99.35% of the issued share capital and obtained control of Elster Group S. E. for cash consideration of 1,469.8 million.
Subsequently a further 0.45% of the remaining 0.65% share capital was purchased on various dates in 2012 for total consideration of 6.4 million.
Elster is a world leading engineering company and one of the worlds largest providers of gas, electricity and water meters, gas utilisation products and related communications, networking and software solutions.
In addition, in September 2012, 24.2 million was paid in respect of deferred consideration relating to the acquisition of EnergyICT, a business acquired by Elster in 2009.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below.
Fair values are provisional as at 31 December 2012 and are based on the information held to date.
Fair value m Elster Property, plant and equipment 100.3 Intangible assets, computer software and development costs 886.7 Derivative financial assets 0.3 Interests in joint ventures 9.8 Inventories 176.2 Trade and other receivables 182.6 Cash and cash equivalents 105.6 Trade and other payables 356.0 Provisions 143.0 Deferred tax 206.0 Retirement benefit obligation 117.3 Current tax 29.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 411.9 Non-controlling interests 4.9 Net assets 193.2 Non-controlling interests Elster shares 1.2 Goodwill 1,277.8 Total consideration 1,469.8 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 1,469.8 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Acquisition related costs included in exceptional operating costs amount to 19.2 million.
The fair value of the financial assets include gross trade and other receivables of 192.8 million.
The best estimate at acquisition date of the contractual cash ows not to be collected are 10.2 million.
Elster contributed 411.1 million to revenue and 57.8 million to headline operating profit for the period between the date of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
The Elster results were prepared under US GAAP for the first thirty three weeks of the year.
Adjusting to estimate the impact of the transition to Melrose accounting policies under IFRS and assuming Elster had been acquired on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the period would have been approximately 2,271 million and Group headline operating profit would have been approximately 330 million.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of the Elster group is attributable to the anticipated profitability and cash ows arising from the businesses acquired.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Contingent liabilities of 9.5 million have been acquired in respect of warranty and legal claims and recognised within provisions.
We expect that the majority of expenditure will be incurred over the next five years.
The non-controlling interests acquired are measured based on the proportion of the fair value of their net assets.
Interests in joint ventures 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures: Total assets 22.4 3.9 Total liabilities 10.0 4.3 Interests in joint ventures 12.4 0.4 Share of joint venture revenues 11.4 3.2 Share of results of joint ventures 0.8 Dividends received from joint ventures 0.3 Interests in joint ventures in 2011 were in a net liability position and were therefore recognised within current liabilities.
A list of all the significant investments in subsidiaries including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 3 to the Companys separate financial statements.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Raw materials 114.8 53.3 Work in progress 156.9 77.9 Finished goods 104.4 74.6 376.1 205.8 The Directors consider that there is no material difference between the Balance Sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
Construction contracts 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Contracts in progress at the Balance Sheet date: Amounts due from contract customers included in other receivables 3.0 2.9 Amounts due to contract customers included in other payables 3.0 2.9 Contract costs incurred plus recognised profit less recognised losses to date 9.4 19.0 Less: progress billings 6.4 16.1 3.0 2.9 The average life of contracts is 12 years 31 December 2011: 12 years.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Current m m Trade receivables 334.1 195.9 Allowance for doubtful receivables 12.6 3.2 Amounts due from joint ventures 1.3 Other receivables 42.2 9.1 Prepayments 19.1 14.5 384.1 216.3 Trade receivables are non interest-bearing.
Credit terms offered to customers vary upon the country of operation but are generally between 30 and 90 days.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Non-current m m Other receivables 0.3 0.3 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts made with reference to past default experience and managements assessment of creditworthiness, an analysis of which is as follows: Other 1 1 Energy Lifting Industrial Elster Central Discontinued Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 2.2 1.1 0.6 0.2 2.5 6.6 Disposal of businesses 2.1 2.1 Income Statement charge 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.8 Utilised 1.0 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.0 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 1.4 0.9 0.5 0.1 0.3 3.2 Acquired with business 10.2 10.2 Disposal of businesses 0.3 0.3 Income Statement charge 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.8 Utilised 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.9 1.3 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2012 1.4 1.0 0.6 9.5 0.1 12.6 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the large number of customers and because they are unrelated to each other.
Credit control procedures are implemented to ensure that sales are only made to organisations that are willing and able to pay for them.
Such procedures include the establishment and review of customer credit limits and terms.
The Group does not hold any collateral or any other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
Melrose Industries PLC 102 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The ageing of impaired trade receivables past due is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Ageing of impaired trade receivables past due m m 0 30 days 1.9 0.4 31 60 days 0.4 0.3 60 days 10.3 2.5 12.6 3.2 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are overdue trade receivables with a carrying amount of 88.0 million 31 December 2011: 37.3 million against which an appropriate provision of 12.6 million 31 December 2011: 3.2 million is held.
The balance deemed recoverable of 75.4 million 31 December 2011: 34.1 million is past due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m 0 30 days 58.1 23.3 31 60 days 7.9 5.8 60 days 9.4 5.0 75.4 34.1 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, including amounts not past due and not impaired, approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 195.6 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand which earns interest at oating rates based on daily bank deposit rates and shortterm deposits which are made for varying periods of between one day and one month and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The carrying amount of these assets is considered to be equal to their fair value.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Current m m Trade payables 253.4 144.0 Other payables 168.6 54.4 Other taxes and social security 16.5 7.4 Deferred government grants 2.4 Accruals 98.5 70.2 539.4 276.0 Trade payables are non interest-bearing.
Normal settlement terms vary by country and the average credit period taken for trade purchases is 98 days 2011: 91 days.
Other payables are non interest-bearing and have an average term of approximately 60 days.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Non-current m m Other payables 0.9 Accruals 1.7 1.6 2.6 1.6 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Details of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risk are included in note 24.
Current Non-current Total 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Fixed rate obligations Bank borrowings Brazilian Real 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 Floating rate obligations 1 Bank borrowings US Dollar loan 423.3 390.1 423.3 390.1 2 Bank borrowings Euro loan 298.2 48.6 298.2 48.6 3 Bank borrowings Sterling loan 27.7 447.5 22.3 447.5 50.0 27.7 1,169.0 461.0 1,169.0 488.7 Redeemable preference C shares 1.1 1.1 Unamortised finance costs 21.0 3.5 21.0 3.5 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6.2 28.8 1,148.0 457.5 1,154.2 486.3 1 Interest rate LIBOR 2.00%, final maturity June 2017 31 December 2011: interest rate LIBOR 1.35%, final maturity April 2013.
2 Interest rate EURIBOR 2.00%, final maturity June 2017 31 December 2011: interest rate EURIBOR 1.35%, final maturity April 2013.
3 Interest rate LIBOR 2.00%, final maturity June 2017 31 December 2011: interest rate LIBOR 1.35%, final maturity April 2013.
From 1 January 2012 to 31 January 2012 the Group utilised a 750 million multi-currency committed facility which was due to expire on 22 April 2013.
On 31 January 2012, all amounts outstanding on this facility were repaid using surplus cash in the Group at that time and by partially utilising a replacement facility, which was a 600 million committed multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Subsequently, to part finance the acquisition of Elster, a new five year 1.5 billion agreement was signed on 29 June 2012, split into a 0.5 billion multi-currency term loan and a 1.0 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Following the successful tender offer to the shareholders of Elster this facility was part drawn on 23 August 2012 in order to repay the drawings under the aforementioned 600 million facility and pay a proportion of the consideration for the Elster shares.
In addition, the new 1.5 billion facility has been part used to renance, where necessary, the existing indebtedness of Elster.
This included a seven year Eurobond with a principal value of 250 million due to mature in April 2018, a committed 450 million multi-currency revolving credit facility and a 140 million committed multi-currency guarantee facility, both of which were due to mature in April 2016.
The 450 million revolving credit facility was repaid on 28 September 2012.
On 29 September 2012, the majority of the bank guarantees issued under the Elster 140 million guarantee facility were assumed under the new 1.5 billion facility.
On 28 November 2012 the Elster Eurobond was repaid together with the applicable redemption premium and accrued interest, resulting in a repayment including principal of 283.3 million.
As at 31 December 2012, the new 0.5 billion term loan was fully drawn and split into two tranches of 180 million and US $500 million.
The revolving credit facility is split into multi-currency Sterling based tranches totalling 760 million and a 300 million tranche, both of which were partially drawn.
Throughout the year, the Group remained compliant with all covenants under the facilities disclosed above.
A number of companies have been, or continue to be, guarantors under the bank facilities disclosed herein.
In addition, until Elster Group S. E. becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of Melrose Industries PLC currently 99.8% owned and has been converted into a German limited liability company, a pledge has been given over the shares of Elster Group S. E.. Drawdowns under the new facility bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin determined by reference to the Groups performance under its debt cover covenant ratio and ranges between 1.40% and 2.65%.
The new 0.5 billion term loan is subject to mandatory repayments of 5 per cent of the original tranches on June 2015, June 2016 and 31 December 2016.
Melrose Industries PLC 104 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity prole of anticipated future cash ows including interest in relation to the Groups financial liabilities, on an undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value is shown in the table below.
Interest on oating rate debt is based on the relevant LIBOR curve for US Dollar and Sterling balances and the EURIBOR curve for Euro balances.
Interest on hedging interest rate swaps is based on the relevant forward LIBOR curves for US Dollar and Sterling amounts and EURIBOR curve for Euro amounts and is illustrated as a net cash ow.
Interest-bearing Derivative Other Total loans and financial financial financial borrowings liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m Within one year 33.3 7.0 520.5 560.8 In one to two years 28.2 3.8 2.6 34.6 In two to five years 1,252.9 0.3 1,252.6 Effect of financing rates 160.2 160.2 31 December 2012 1,154.2 10.5 523.1 1,687.8 Within one year 38.7 14.1 268.6 321.4 In one to two years 464.2 1.6 1.6 467.4 Effect of financing rates 16.6 16.6 31 December 2011 486.3 15.7 270.2 772.2 20.
2 3 Includes 48.3 million of provisions arising in the year through exceptional costs and 11.2 million of provisions arising in the year through headline operating profit and 0.7 million arising as a result of the disposal of a subsidiary.
3 As dened on the Income Statement.
The provision for surplus leasehold property costs represents the estimated net payments payable over the term of these leases together with any dilapidation costs.
This is expected to result in cash expenditure over the next one to six years.
Environmental and legal costs provisions relate to the estimated remediation costs of pollution, soil and groundwater contamination at certain sites and estimated future costs and settlements in relation to legal claims.
Due to their nature, it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised.
Incentive plan related provisions are in respect of long term incentive plans for divisional senior management, expected to result in cash expenditure in the next four years.
The provision for warranty related costs represents the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligations.
Warranty terms are, on average, between one and five years.
Other provisions relate primarily to costs that will be incurred in respect of restructuring programmes and contractual obligations.
Where appropriate, provisions have been discounted using a discount rate of 3% 31 December 2011: 3%.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated capital Tax losses allowances Deferred tax and other and other on intangible Total deferred Total net assets liabilities assets tax liabilities deferred tax Notes m m m m m At 1 January 2011 33.0 12.1 102.8 114.9 81.9 Credit charge to income 8 2.1 4.3 13.9 9.6 11.7 Credit to other comprehensive income 12.0 1.5 1.5 13.5 Disposal of businesses 6.6 0.2 4.7 4.9 1.7 Exchange differences 0.1 0.6 0.6 0.5 At 31 December 2011 40.4 14.7 83.6 98.3 57.9 Charge credit to income 8 3.0 4.2 1.4 2.8 5.8 Credit charge to other comprehensive income 4.9 1.6 1.6 3.3 Acquisition of businesses 12 103.8 43.4 266.4 309.8 206.0 Exchange differences 1.0 0.1 1.4 1.3 0.3 At 31 December 2012 145.1 64.0 347.2 411.2 266.1 As at 31 December 2012, the Group has gross unused losses of 250.6 million 31 December 2011: 201.4 million available for offset against future profits.
At 31 December 2012, a 9.1 million deferred tax asset 31 December 2011: 8.9 million in respect of 35.5 million 31 December 2011: 35.0 million of these gross losses has been recognised in the Balance Sheet.
No asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the divisional and geographic split of anticipated future profit streams and the effect of possible disposals in future years.
The majority of these losses may be carried forward indefinitely subject to certain continuity of business requirements.
A significant part of the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Group financial statements relates to the FKI UK Pension Plan, the McKechnie UK Pension Plan and the FKI US Pension Plan.
A deferred tax asset of 18.3 million 31 December 2011: 18.4 million has been recognised on these obligations, being the extent to which they are expected to generate tax deductions against foreseeable taxable profits.
An asset of 19.5 million has also been recognised on Elster pension obligations.
The remaining asset of 98.2 million 31 December 2011: 13.1 million relates to other temporary differences.
The significant increase arises on the acquisition of Elster during the period.
As at 31 December 2012, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 6.6 million 31 December 2011: 3.4 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share-based payments Melrose Incentive Plans On 11 April 2012, at a Melrose General Meeting, shareholders voted in favour of the early crystallisation of the previous Melrose Incentive Plan, bringing forward the maturity date from 31 May 2012 to 22 March 2012.
On crystallisation the Incentive Shares were converted into 31.2 million Melrose Ordinary Shares.
As a result the total number of Ordinary Shares in the Company increased from 391.0 million to 422.2 million.
At the same meeting a new five year share-based 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders which mirrors the previous Melrose Incentive Plan in most respects except that under this new plan, the potential reward has been reduced from 10% to 7.5% of the increase in shareholder value creation.
In addition, a 5% dilution cap has been included in the new plan rules.
This new plan has an end date of 31 May 2017.
The estimated value of the 2012 Incentive Shares at 31 December 2012 was 8.6 million.
Using a Black Scholes option pricing model, the projected value of this plan in over four years time, at 31 May 2017, will be 60.2 million.
Melrose Industries PLC 106 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Share-based payments continued The inputs into the Black Scholes model that were used to fair value the plan were as follows: Valuation 1 assumptions 2012 Weighted average share price 2.27 Weighted average exercise price 2.85 Expected volatility 30.0% Expected life as at inception 5.0yrs Risk free interest 1.0% 1 Calculated using the share price adjusted for the Rights Issue in August 2012.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price.
The Group recognised an IFRS 2 charge of 3.5 million 2011: 1.8 million in the year ended 31 December 2012, 2.7 million in relation to the equity-settled 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan and 0.8 million in relation to the previous Melrose Incentive Plan.
Retirement benefit obligations Melrose holds several pension plans covering many of its employees, operating in several jurisdictions.
The most significant dened benefit pension plans are: t The FKI UK Pension Plan which is dened benefit in type and is a funded plan where the future liabilities for members benets are provided for by the accumulation of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
The plan is closed to new members and the accrual of future benets for existing members.
t The McKechnie UK Pension Plan which is dened benefit in type and is a funded plan other than 4.1 million of unfunded liabilities where the future liabilities for members benets are provided for by the accumulation of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
t The FKI US Pension Plan which is dened benefit in type and is a funded plan where the future liabilities for members benets are provided for by the accumulation of assets held externally to the Group in separate trustee administered funds.
Further details of the status of the significant plans are disclosed in the Directors report on pages 50 and 51.
Other plans include a number of funded and unfunded dened benefit arrangements across Europe, North America and the rest of the world.
During the year, a number of additional plans were acquired as part of the acquisition of the Elster division.
The net deficit on the Elster acquired plans at 31 December 2012 was 115.2 million.
Included in this amount is 89.6 million, 78%, relating to unfunded German dened benefit plans and early retirement programmes, designed to create an incentive, within a certain age group, to retire early.
The remaining plans in the Elster division are not significant in size with 19.2 million, 17%, of the deficit, relating to US dened benefit and retirement healthcare and life insurance benets.
The cost of the Groups dened benefit plans are determined in accordance with IAS 19 with the advice of independent professionally qualied actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
In line with normal practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the UK and annually in the US.
The FKI UK and McKechnie UK Pension Plan valuations are based on the UK full actuarial valuations as of 31 December 2011 updated at 31 December 2012 by independent actuaries and the FKI US Pension Plan valuation is based on the US full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2011 updated at 31 December 2012 by independent actuaries.
The latest UK full actuarial valuations are due to be signed during March 2013.
The Group also operates unfunded retiree medical and welfare benefit plans, principally in the US.
The Group contributed 18.5 million 2011: 18.5 million to the FKI UK Pension Plan and 4.6 million 2011: 4.6 million to the McKechnie UK Pension Plan in the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Group also contributed 6.0 million to the McKechnie UK Pension Plan following the disposal of the MPC business.
Contributions to the FKI UK Pension Plan in 2013 will be 20.0 million.
In addition to this, there are a number of dened contribution plans across the Group.
Contributions by continuing businesses during the year were 13.1 million 2011: 10.2 million.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Actuarial assumptions The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuaries in calculating the Groups pension plan assets and liabilities are as set out below: 31 December 2012 FKI McKechnie FKI European Other UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plans Plans plans % p. a.
1 Rate of increase in salaries n a 3.50 n a 4.00 2.75 3.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.90 3.00 n a n a 1.90 n a Discount rate 4.50 4.50 3.90 3.90 2.90 3.90 RPI inflation assumption 3.00 3.00 n a n a 1.90 2.90 1 Closed to the accrual of future benets but active members benets are still linked to current salaries.
31 December 2011 FKI McKechnie FKI Other UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plans plans % p. a.
1 Rate of increase in salaries n a 3.60 n a n a n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.00 3.10 n a n a n a Discount rate 4.90 4.90 4.30 4.00 4.60 RPI inflation assumption 3.10 3.10 n a n a 2.50 1 Closed to the accrual of future benets but active members benets are still linked to current salaries.
Mortality FKI UK Pension Plan Mortality assumptions for the most significant plan in the Group, the FKI UK plan, as at 31 December 2012 are based on the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S1 base tables with scaling factors of 110% and 105% for deferred members and pensioners respectively, which reect the results of a mortality analysis carried out on the plans membership.
Future improvements are in line with the Continuous Mortality Investigation improvement model with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% p. a. for both males and females.
The assumptions are that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 22.1 years if they are male and for a further 24.2 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2032 at age 65, the assumptions are that they will live for a further 23.5 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 25.8 years after retirement if they are female.
The mortality assumptions are in line with those adopted for the triennial valuation results as at 31 December 2011.
Sensitivities Sensitivities around movements in the principal assumptions of the discount rate, ination rate and mortality are discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages 33 and 34.
Balance Sheet disclosures The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet arising from net liabilities in respect of dened benefit plans is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Plan liabilities 1,304.6 1,076.7 1,039.4 1,033.5 939.7 Plan assets 1,043.3 959.0 919.8 864.4 810.5 Limit on pension plan surplus 14.1 Net liabilities 261.3 117.7 119.6 169.1 143.3 Melrose Industries PLC 108 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The five year history of experience adjustments is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 90.1 72.4 23.8 130.9 70.7 Experience adjustments on plan assets 26.3 35.3 37.6 41.0 78.9 The plan liabilities and assets at 31 December 2012 were split by plan as follows: FKI McKechnie FKI European Other UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plans Plans plans Total m m m m m m m Plan liabilities 730.2 179.0 228.4 46.4 111.0 9.6 1,304.6 Plan assets 630.2 170.8 198.3 26.6 9.7 7.7 1,043.3 Net liabilities 100.0 8.2 30.1 19.8 101.3 1.9 261.3 This amount is presented in the Balance Sheet: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Net liabilities unfunded plans 118.0 11.2 21.0 24.2 45.2 funded plans 143.3 106.5 98.6 144.9 84.0 Limit on pension plan surplus 14.1 261.3 117.7 119.6 169.1 143.3 Expected returns and fair value of assets: Expected rates of return Fair value of assets 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % m m Equity instruments 7.0 7.0 410.7 348.7 Debt instruments 3.8 3.8 534.3 514.2 Other assets 5.3 4.4 98.3 96.1 Weighted average total 5.2 5.0 1,043.3 959.0 The expected return on plan assets at 31 December 2012 is based on market expectations at 1 January 2013 for returns on assets over the entire life of the obligation.
There is no self investment other than in relevant tracker funds either in the Groups own financial instruments or property or other assets used by the Group.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the present value of dened benefit obligations during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m At beginning of year 1,076.7 1,039.4 Acquisition of business 155.1 Disposal of businesses 0.7 41.1 Current service cost 1.2 0.6 Past service cost 0.9 Interest cost 51.4 52.8 Actuarial losses 90.1 72.4 Benefits paid out of plan assets 49.9 47.7 Benefits paid out of Group assets for unfunded plans 1.8 Plan curtailments 7.0 0.8 Currency gains losses 9.6 1.1 At end of year 1,304.6 1,076.7 Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m At beginning of year 959.0 919.8 Acquisition of business 37.8 Disposal of businesses 30.5 Expected return on assets 47.8 52.3 Actuarial gains 26.3 35.3 Contributions 31.9 28.8 Benefits paid out of plan assets 49.9 47.7 Currency losses gains 9.6 1.0 At end of year 1,043.3 959.0 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 74.1 million 2011: 87.6 million.
Melrose Industries PLC 110 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Income Statement disclosures Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of these dened benefit plans are as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Continuing operations 2 Included within headline operating profit: current service cost 1.2 0.4 past service cost 0.9 curtailment gain 0.8 Included within net finance costs: interest cost 51.4 52.6 expected return on assets 47.8 52.3 Included within exceptional items: curtailment gain 7.0 Discontinued operations 2 Included within headline operating profit: current service cost 0.2 Included within net finance costs: interest cost 0.2 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Actuarial losses on plan liabilities 90.1 72.4 Actuarial gains on plan assets 26.3 35.3 63.8 37.1 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is a total loss of 178.3 million 2011: 114.5 million.
Financial instruments and risk management The table below sets out the Groups accounting classication of each category of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011: Other 1 1 Energy Lifting Industrial Central Elster Discontinued Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 156.5 Net trade receivables 93.0 78.2 8.3 0.1 141.9 321.5 Derivative financial assets 2.2 0.8 0.1 0.2 3.3 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,148.0 6.2 1,154.2 Derivative financial liabilities 1.4 0.7 8.2 0.2 10.5 Other financial liabilities 114.3 78.6 17.1 33.5 279.6 523.1 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 195.6 195.6 Net trade receivables 94.0 74.6 8.8 0.1 15.2 192.7 Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.9 0.4 1.7 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 486.3 486.3 Derivative financial liabilities 8.6 1.0 0.1 5.8 0.2 15.7 Other financial liabilities 116.8 83.7 20.1 33.5 16.1 270.2 1 Restated to include the financial assets and financial liabilities of MPC within discontinued operations.
Credit risk The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: Other 1 1 Energy Lifting Industrial Central Elster Discontinued Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 156.5 Trade receivables 93.0 78.2 8.3 0.1 141.9 321.5 Derivative financial assets 2.2 0.8 0.1 0.2 3.3 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 195.6 195.6 Trade receivables 94.0 74.6 8.8 0.1 15.2 192.7 Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.9 0.4 1.7 1 Restated to include the financial assets of MPC within discontinued operations.
The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and derivative financial assets which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counter-parties are banks with strong credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Note 16 provides further details regarding the recovery of trade receivables.
Melrose Industries PLC 112 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the Groups net debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, after deducting cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising Issued share capital, Reserves and Retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy for managing liquidity risk is set out in the Finance Directors review.
Fair values The Directors consider that the financial assets and liabilities have fair values not materially different to the carrying values.
Foreign exchange contracts As at 31 December 2012, the Group held foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate expected exchange uctuations on cash ows on sales to customers and purchases from suppliers.
These instruments operate as cash ow hedges unless the amounts involved are small.
The terms of the material currency pairs with total principals in excess of Sterling 1 million equivalent are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2012 2011 2011 Selling currency Average hedged Selling currency Average hedged millions rate millions rate Sell Australian Dollar Buy Euro AUD 4.7 EUR AUD 1.27 Sell Australian Dollar Buy Sterling AUD 4.3 GBP AUD 1.58 AUD 4.3 GBP AUD 1.60 Sell Canadian Dollar Buy Sterling CAD 4.3 GBP CAD 1.60 Sell Canadian Dollar Buy US Dollar CAD 1.7 USD CAD 1.00 CAD 1.9 USD CAD 0.99 Sell Chinese Renminbi Buy US Dollar CNY 10.3 USD CNY 6.43 Sell Czech Koruna Buy US Dollar CZK 33.9 USD CZK 20.24 Sell Euro Buy Chinese Renminbi EUR 2.3 EUR CNY 8.74 Sell Euro Buy Czech Koruna EUR 7.1 EUR CZK 25.20 EUR 16.8 EUR CZK 24.59 Sell Euro Buy Mexican Peso EUR 4.1 EUR MXN 17.01 Sell Euro Buy Polish Zloty EUR 1.8 EUR PLZ 4.09 Sell Euro Buy Sterling EUR 37.4 GBP EUR 1.24 EUR 24.4 GBP EUR 1.15 Sell Euro Buy US Dollar EUR 2.7 EUR USD 1.28 EUR 2.8 EUR USD 1.38 Sell Hong Kong Dollar Buy Sterling HKD 16.9 GBP HKD 12.41 HKD 21.7 GBP HKD 12.11 Sell Malaysian Ringgit Buy Euro MYR 5.8 EUR MYR 4.00 Sell Malaysian Ringgit Buy US Dollar MYR 5.6 USD MYR 3.11 Sell Norwegian Krone Buy Euro NOK 28.1 EUR NOK 7.86 Sell Norwegian Krone Buy Sterling NOK 92.3 GBP NOK 9.30 NOK 56.9 GBP NOK 9.13 Sell Singapore Dollar Buy Sterling SGD 2.1 GBP SGD 1.98 Sell South African Rand Buy Euro ZAR 21.1 EUR ZAR 10.60 ZAR 34.7 EUR ZAR 10.51 Sell South African Rand Buy Sterling ZAR 29.3 GBP ZAR 14.21 Sell Sterling Buy Czech Koruna GBP 62.1 GBP CZK 30.58 GBP 87.1 GBP CZK 28.55 Sell Sterling Buy Euro GBP 37.0 GBP EUR 1.22 GBP 35.5 GBP EUR 1.15 Sell Sterling Buy US Dollar GBP 3.1 GBP USD 1.61 GBP 1.1 GBP USD 1.58 Sell UAE Dirham Buy Sterling AED 6.8 GBP AED 5.90 Sell US Dollar Buy Canadian Dollar USD 3.7 USD CAD 1.00 USD 4.9 USD CAD 0.99 Sell US Dollar Buy Chinese Renminbi USD 1.6 USD CNY 6.43 Sell US Dollar Buy Czech Koruna USD 4.2 USD CZK 18.50 Sell US Dollar Buy Euro USD 5.6 EUR USD 1.22 USD 6.4 EUR USD 1.38 Sell US Dollar Buy Sterling USD 84.5 GBP USD 1.59 USD 79.8 GBP USD 1.59 The foreign exchange contracts all mature between January 2013 and August 2014.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2012 was a net asset of 0.8 million 31 December 2011: net liability of 8.3 million.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Commodity swap contracts As at 31 December 2012, the Group held a number of copper swap contracts that were designated as cash ow hedges.
These swap contracts lock the Group into xed copper prices to protect against uctuations in the market price of copper.
The terms of the contracts are: Commodity swaps Commodity Total quantity Maturity Pricing US Dollar Group pays Copper 130 tonnes 4 February 2013 7,538 per tonne Group receives Copper 130 tonnes 4 February 2013 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 170 tonnes 4 March 2013 7,698 per tonne Group receives Copper 170 tonnes 4 March 2013 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 190 tonnes 3 April 2013 7,405 per tonne Group receives Copper 190 tonnes 3 April 2013 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 120 tonnes 2 May 2013 7,395 per tonne Group receives Copper 120 tonnes 2 May 2013 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 80 tonnes 4 June 2013 7,323 per tonne Group receives Copper 80 tonnes 4 June 2013 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 70 tonnes 2 July 2013 7,327 per tonne Group receives Copper 70 tonnes 2 July 2013 Average LME price for the month Group pays Copper 50 tonnes 2 August 2013 7,330 per tonne Group receives Copper 50 tonnes 2 August 2013 Average LME price for the month The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2012 was a net asset of 0.1 million 31 December 2011: nil.
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities Included in interest-bearing loans at 31 December 2012 were the following amounts which were designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups subsidiaries in Europe and the USA and were being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risks.
Borrowings in local currency: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m US Dollar 307.8 390.1 Euro 281.9 48.6 Interest rate sensitivity analysis A one percentage point rise in market interest rates for all currencies would decrease increase profit before tax by the following amounts assuming the net debt as at the Balance Sheet date was outstanding for the whole year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Sterling 1.0 0.4 US Dollar 0.5 0.3 Euro 0.6 0.2 2.1 0.1 Melrose Industries PLC 114 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Interest rate risk management The Groups policy for managing interest rate risk is set out in the Finance Directors review.
The Group entered 2012 protecting 78% of its gross debt from exposure to changes in interest rates by holding a number of interest rate swaps to x 380.1 million US $546.0 million and 33.3 million of drawn debt.
Under the terms of these swaps, the Group xed the underlying interest rate at 2.1% for US Dollars and 2.6% for the Euro, plus the bank margin which was 1.35% at that time.
In February 2012 the Group closed out these swap arrangements and replaced them with new swap arrangements to x the interest rate on a proportion of the new facility drawn down on 31 January 2012.
The new five year swap arrangements xed the finance cost on US $231.0 million, 105.0 million and 42.0 million of debt.
Under the terms of these new swap arrangements, the Group will pay annually in arrears, 1.0% for US Dollar swaps, 1.1% for Euro swaps and 1.1% for Sterling swaps, plus the bank margin which was 1.5% at that time.
This arrangement protected approximately 70% of the Groups exposure to interest rate uctuations for the term of the new facility.
In September 2012 the Group entered into another layer of interest rate swaps following the acquisition of Elster.
The new five year swap arrangements xed the finance cost on US $329.0 million, 231.8 million and 250.0 million of drawn borrowings.
Under the terms of the new swap arrangements, the Group will pay, annually in arrears, 0.69% for US Dollar swaps, 0.72% for Euro swaps and 0.80% for Sterling swaps, plus the current bank margin which is 2.00%.
These swaps have also been structured to maintain the ratio of xed interest rate cover over the five year term allowing for Group profit generation.
This xes the interest rate cost on US $560.0 million, 336.8 million and 292.0 million of debt, 79% of gross borrowings as at 31 December 2012.
The weighted blended xed finance cost is therefore 0.84% on US Dollar swaps, 0.78% on Euro swaps and 0.91% on Sterling swaps, plus the bank margin of 2.00%.
These interest rate swaps have been designated as cash ow hedges and were highly effective throughout 2012.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2012 was a net liability of 8.1 million 31 December 2011: 5.7 million.
Foreign currency risk The Groups policy for managing foreign currency risk is set out in the Finance Directors review on pages 35 and 36.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks are dened by IFRS 7 as the risk that the fair value or future cash ows of a financial asset or liability will uctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The following table details the transactional impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the decrease increase in Group operating profit caused by a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and a 10% strengthening of the Czech Koruna against Sterling compared to the year end spot rate.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a material impact are noted here: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m US Dollar 0.7 0.4 Euro 0.4 0.5 Czech Koruna 0.2 2.0 The following table details the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the increase decrease in Group equity caused by a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and a 10% strengthening of the Czech Koruna against Sterling.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a material impact are noted here: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m US Dollar 1.6 0.7 Euro 1.7 2.3 Czech Koruna 0.1 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Financial instruments and risk management continued In addition, the change in equity due to a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling for the translation of net investment hedging instruments would be a decrease of 20.2 million 31 December 2011: 26.8 million and 24.9 million 31 December 2011: 4.4 million respectively.
However, there would be no overall effect on equity because there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
Fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
Commodity swaps are measured using quoted forward commodity prices.
Interest rate swap contracts are measured using yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The fair values are shown below.
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total m m m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign currency forward contracts 3.2 3.2 1.6 1.6 Commodity swaps 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.3 3.3 1.7 1.7 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 2.4 2.4 8.7 1.2 9.9 Commodity swaps 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 4.6 3.5 8.1 5.3 0.4 5.7 7.0 3.5 10.5 14.1 1.6 15.7 The fair value of these are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices and they therefore are categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 7.
Issued capital and reserves 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Share Capital m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid 1,266,627,036 31 December 2011: 390,961,043 Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each 31 December 2011: 120p each 1.3 469.1 Nil 31 December 2011: 34,331,656 C Deferred Shares of 75.0p each 25.7 Nil 31 December 2011: 50,000 Incentive Shares of 1 each 0.1 1.3 494.9 1 In accordance with IFRS 3, the prior year Issued share capital, Share premium account, Merger reserve, Other reserves and Capital redemption reserve balances have been restated to reect the nominal share capital and reserves position of the new parent company as if it had been the holding company during both periods presented.
The overall impact on net equity is nil note 1.
The rights of each class of share are described in the Directors report.
On 12 April 2012, following approval at a General Meeting of the shareholders, the former Melrose Incentive Plan was crystallised.
This resulted in the conversion of 50,000 1 Melrose Incentive Shares into 31,247,969 Ordinary Shares of Melrose PLC.
On 30 April 2012, the remaining 34,331,656 C Deferred Shares were redeemed resulting in a 25.7 million transfer from Issued share capital into the Capital redemption reserve.
In addition, the 1,392,194 C Shares were redeemed and cancelled on 30 April 2012 at a value of 1.1 million which was also transferred to the Capital redemption reserve.
On 1 August 2012 a 2 for 1, fully underwritten, Rights Issue was completed by Melrose PLC and 844,418,024 Melrose PLC Ordinary Shares were issued raising 1.2 billion to part fund the acquisition of Elster.
Melrose Industries PLC 116 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Issued capital and reserves continued Following the Rights Issue, the total number of 14 55p Melrose PLC Ordinary Shares in issue was 1,266,627,036.
On 27 November 2012, a Scheme of Arrangement approved by the High Court of England and Wales became effective and resulted in Melrose Industries PLC becoming the new holding company of Melrose PLC and its subsidiaries.
The arrangement resulted in the issue of 1 new 120p Melrose Industries PLC Ordinary Share for each 14 55p Melrose PLC Ordinary Share.
Melrose Industries PLC consequently issued 1,266,627,036 Ordinary Shares.
As explained in note 1, Ordinary Share Capital at 31 December 2011 has been restated to reect the nominal value of the Ordinary Shares of Melrose Industries PLC at the date on which Melrose Industries PLC became the new holding company.
The nominal value of each Ordinary Share in issue at 31 December 2011 has therefore been restated from 14 55p to 120p.
On 28 November 2012, the nominal value of each Ordinary Share of Melrose Industries PLC was reduced from 120p to 0.1p and resulted in a transfer of 1,518.7 million to Retained earnings.
Own shares The Trustee of the Melrose PLC Employee benefit Trust EBT holds no shares in Melrose Industries PLC at 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2011 the EBT held 500 Melrose Incentive Shares and 19,862 Ordinary Shares of 14 55p in Melrose PLC.
The FKI EBT holds no shares in Melrose Industries PLC at 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2011 the FKI EBT held 124,232 Ordinary Shares of 14 55p in Melrose PLC.
Hedging and translation reserves The hedging and translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the foreign exchange movements of instruments designated as net investment hedges and cash ow hedges.
Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total Hedging and translation reserves m m m At 1 January 2011 8.6 79.6 71.0 Currency translation on net investments 0.4 17.7 17.3 Losses on cash flow hedges 0.1 0.1 Taxation adjustments to equity 1.5 1.5 Transfer to Income Statement on cash flow hedges 5.1 5.1 Transfer to Income Statement on disposal of foreign operations 52.6 52.6 At 31 December 2011 11.9 9.3 2.6 Currency translation on net investments 0.1 1.3 1.2 Losses on cash flow hedges 6.2 6.2 Taxation adjustments to equity 1.6 1.6 Transfer to Income Statement on cash flow hedges 11.9 11.9 At 31 December 2012 7.7 8.0 0.3 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
Cash ow statement 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m 2 Reconciliation of headline operating profit to cash generated by continuing operations 2 Headline operating profit from continuing operations 243.1 174.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 28.1 21.0 Amortisation of computer software and development costs 2.4 0.6 Restructuring costs paid and movements in other provisions 62.9 32.2 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 210.7 163.6 Increase in inventories 3.5 17.5 Increase in receivables 7.7 14.5 Decrease increase in payables 32.8 13.0 Cash generated by operations 166.7 144.6 Tax paid 49.4 22.9 Interest paid 42.8 26.0 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 33.7 24.9 Net cash from operating activities from continuing operations 40.8 70.8 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Cash flow from discontinued operations m m Cash generated from discontinued operations 1.7 28.1 Tax paid 3.8 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 3.9 Net cash from operating activities from discontinued operations 1.7 20.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1.8 9.5 Purchase of computer software 0.2 Interest received 0.5 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 0.2 Net cash used in investing activities from discontinued operations 1.8 9.4 Net movement in borrowings 0.3 Net cash used in financing activities from discontinued operations 0.3 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
Net debt reconciliation At 31 Other Foreign At 31 December non-cash exchange December 2011 Cash flow Acquisitions Disposals movements difference 2012 m m m m m m m Cash 195.6 222.4 285.0 27.1 3.6 156.5 Debt due within one year 27.7 27.8 6.5 0.2 6.2 Debt due after one year 457.5 318.0 405.4 15.6 17.3 1,148.0 Net debt 289.6 67.8 696.9 27.1 15.6 13.9 997.7 Melrose Industries PLC 118 Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Commitments and contingencies Future total minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Amounts payable: Within one year 16.3 7.7 After one year but within five years 33.0 16.8 Over five years 30.9 10.3 80.2 34.8 Capital commitments At 31 December 2012, there were commitments of 16.8 million 31 December 2011: 18.9 million relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
Related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group did not enter into any significant transactions in the ordinary course of business with joint ventures during the current or prior year.
Sales to and purchases from Group companies are priced as arms length transactions and generally are settled on 30 day terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration report on pages 66 and 67.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.7 3.0 Share-based payments 2.5 1.6 5.2 4.6 29.
Post Balance Sheet events There are no post Balance Sheet events which require disclosure.
Contingent liabilities As a result of the acquisitions of the FKI and Elster businesses, certain contingent legal, environmental, warranty and tax liabilities were identied.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been included in the Balance Sheet.
The Group has contingent liabilities representing guarantees and contract bonds given in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
