To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day on which the NOTICE OF MEETING Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the Company enters into any contract or undertaking in Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
relation to the same provided that, in any event, the of the Company will be held at Page House, The Bourne aggregate amount of political donations and political 12.
To authorise the directors to determine the Business Park, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, Addlestone, expenditure made or incurred by the Company and remuneration of the auditors.
Weybridge, Surrey, KT15 2QW on Thursday 6 June 2013 at its subsidiaries pursuant to this Resolution shall not 13.
To propose the following ordinary resolution Note 9 : 12.00 noon for the following purposes: exceed 75,000.
That in accordance with section 366 and 367 of the 1.
To receive the accounts and the reports of the 14.
To propose the following ordinary resolution Note 10 : Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act the Company, directors and the auditors for the year ended 31 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and all companies that are subsidiaries of the December 2012. and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Company at the date on which this Resolution 13 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary share section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise is passed or during the period when this Resolution capital of the Company for the year ended 31 all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the 13 has effect, be generally and unconditionally December 2012 of 6.75p per share.
Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to authorised to: convert any security into, shares in the Company 3.
To re-elect Robin Buchanan as a director of the a make political donations to political parties or Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of Company Note 8. independent election candidates, as dened in the 1,052,006, provided that this authority, shall expire at 4.
To re-elect Steve Ingham as a director of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 25,000 in total: the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Company Note 8. the Company or, if earlier, on 6 September 2014, save b make political donations to political organisations 5.
To re-elect Andrew Bracey as a director of the that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or other than political parties, as dened in the 2006 Act, Company Note 8. agreements before the expiry of such authority which not exceeding 25,000 in total: and would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights 6.
To re-elect Ruby McGregor-Smith as a director of the c incur political expenditure, as dened in the 2006 Act, to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall Company Note 8. not exceeding 25,000 in total: be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant 7.
To re-elect Dr. Tim Miller as a director of the Company during the period commencing on the date of passing to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had Note 8. this resolution and ending on the date of the next not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously Annual General Meeting of the Company provided granted to the directors to allot shares and grant 8.
To elect Simon Boddie as a director of the Company that the authorised sum referred to in paragraphs Rights be and are hereby revoked.
Note 8. a, b and c above, may be comprised of one or 9.
To elect David Lowden as a director of the Company more amounts in different currencies which, for Note 8. the purposes of calculating the said sum, shall be 10.
To propose the following ordinary resolution: converted into pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London edition of the Financial That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year Times on the date on which the relevant donation is ended 31 December 2012 be received and approved.
made or expenditure incurred or the first business 119 15.
To propose the following special resolution Note 11 : 16.
To propose the following special resolution Note 12 : 18.
To propose the following ordinary resolution note 14 : That: That the directors be and they are hereby empowered That the Company be generally and unconditionally pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the authorised to make market purchases within the a the rules of the Michael Page International Long Term Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 Incentive Plan LTIP, in the form produced at the the meaning of section 560 of that Act for cash either of ordinary shares of 1p each of the Company on such Annual General Meeting and initialled by the Chairman pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution terms and in such manner as the directors may from of the Annual General Meeting for the purposes of 14 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if time to time determine, provided that: identication and a summary of which is set out in section 561 1 of that Act did not apply to any such a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby Appendix 1 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting, allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: authorised to be acquired is 31,878,970 representing be and are hereby approved: and a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share b the Board of the Company be and is hereby offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary capital of the Company as at 12 April 2013: authorised to establish further schemes based on shares on the register of members at such record b the minimum price which may be paid for each the LTIP for the benefit of directors and employees of date as the directors may determine where the equity ordinary share is 1p: the Company and or its subsidiaries who are located securities respectively attributable to the interests of outside the United Kingdom, with such modications c the maximum price which may be paid for any such the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be necessary or desirable in order to take ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the as may be practicable to the respective numbers of account of local tax, exchange control or securities average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them laws as they consider appropriate, provided that any ordinary share in the Company as derived from The on any such record date, subject to such exclusions ordinary shares made available under such other London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the or other arrangements as the directors may deem schemes shall be treated as counting against any five business days immediately preceding the day on necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, individual or overall limits contained in the LTIP.
which such share is contracted to be purchased: fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems 19.
To propose the following ordinary resolution note 14 : arising under the laws of any overseas territory or d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the the requirements of any regulatory body or stock conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 6 That: exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by September 2014 whichever is earlier unless previously a the rules of the Michael Page International Deferred depositary receipts or any other matter: and renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in Bonus Plan DBP, in the form produced at the general meeting: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subAnnual General Meeting and initialled by the Chairman paragraph a of this Resolution 15 to any person e the Company may make a contract to purchase its of the Annual General Meeting for the purposes of or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred identication and a summary of which is set out in nominal amount of 159,395, and shall expire upon prior to the expiry of such authority, which contract Appendix 1 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting, the expiry of the general authority conferred by will or may be executed wholly or partly after the be and are hereby approved: and Resolution 14 above, save that the Company shall expiry of such authority, and may purchase its b the Board of the Company be and is hereby be entitled to make offers or agreements before the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
authorised to establish further schemes based on the expiry of such power which would or might require 17.
To propose the following special resolution Note 13 : DBP for the benefit of directors and employees of equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Company and or its subsidiaries who are located That a General Meeting other than an Annual General the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities outside the United Kingdom, with such modications Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the as may be necessary or desirable in order to take notice.
power conferred hereby had not expired.
120 account of local tax, exchange control or securities Notes s IN HAR D COPY FORM BY POST BY COURIER OR BY HAND TO laws as they consider appropriate, provided that any the Companys Registrar, at, PXS, 34 Beckenham 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual ordinary shares made available under such other Road, Beckenham BR3 4TU: General Meeting the Meeting may appoint schemes shall be treated as counting against any another person s who need not be a member of s IN THE CASE OF #2%34 MEMBERS BY UTILISING THE individual or overall limits contained in the DBP.
the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to CREST electronic proxy appointment service in attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member accordance with the procedures set out in can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Note 6 below: The Board consider that all the proposals to be considered Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to at the Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the and in each case must be received by the Company exercise the rights attaching to different shares held success of the Company and are in the best interests of the not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Company and its shareholders as a whole.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the only to persons who have been nominated by a resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own Company, but must attend the Meeting to represent member to enjoy information rights under section 146 beneficial holdings which amount to 1,682,324 shares you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
representing 0.5% of the existing issued share capital of the attend the Meeting for your vote to be counted.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised Company excluding treasury shares.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised person as your proxy using the proxy form are set By order of the Board by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may out in the notes to the proxy form.
Appointing a proxy have a right under an agreement between him and the does not preclude you from attending the Meeting member by whom he was nominated to be appointed and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so person, your proxy appointment will automatically be appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such terminated.
Kelvin Stagg a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a Company Secretary Michael Page International plc 3.
A proxy form which may be used to make this right under such an agreement to give instructions to appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
If you do not have a proxy form and 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or Page House, believe that you should have one, please contact proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy 1 Dashwood Lang Road, Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p appointment service may do so by utilising the The Bourne Business Park per minute plus network extras, lines are open procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Addlestone, Surrey KT15 2QW Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5.30pm.
If you require Euroclear website www.
3310225 additional copies you may photocopy the proxy.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored 12 April 2013 4.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be members, and those CREST members who have returned together with any authority under which it appointed a voting service provider s, should refer is executed or a copy of the authority certied or in to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, some other way approved by the directors by one of who will be able to take the appropriate action on the following methods: their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be 121 properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear 8.
Resolutions 3 to 9 election re-election of directors: among other things, may fall within this.
Therefore, UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specications and must notwithstanding that the Company has not made a Resolutions 3 to 9 deal with the election re-election contain the information required for such instructions, political donation in the past, and has no intention of the directors in accordance with the UK Corporate as described in the CREST Manual.
The message of, either now or in the future, making any political Governance Code.
The Governance Code provides regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment donation or incurring any political expenditure in for all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given respect of any political party, political organisation to election re-election by their shareholders every to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to or independent election candidate, the Board has year.
The Governance Code applies on a comply or be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by decided to put forward Resolution 13 to renew the explain basis and applies to financial years beginning the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest authority granted by shareholders at the last Annual on or after 29 June 2010.
Accordingly, in keeping with time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in General Meeting of the Company.
This will allow the the Boards aim of following best corporate practice, the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of Company to continue to support the community each member of the board is standing for re-election, receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by and put forward its views to wider business and and in the case of David Lowden and Simon Boddie the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Government interests without running the risk of being for election, by the shareholders at this years Annual Applications Host from which the issuers agent is in breach of the law.
As permitted under the 2006 Act, General Meeting.
Biographical information on each of able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST Resolution 13 has also been extended to cover any of the directors is contained on pages 30 and 31 of the in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company these activities by the Companys subsidiaries.
The Chairman confirms may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 10.
Resolution 14 - directors authority to allot shares: that, following formal performance evaluation, all circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the directors standing for election re-election continue If passed, Resolution 14 will give the directors Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of 7.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST to the role.
the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of sponsors or voting service providers should note that 1,052,006 representing approximately 33% of the 9.
Resolution 13 - political donations: EUI does not make available special procedures in Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding For the purpose of this resolution, political donations, CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system treasury shares as at 12 April 2013 the latest political organisations and political expenditure timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation practicable date before publication of this notice.
This have the meanings given to them in Section 363-365 to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the power will last until the conclusion of the next Annual of the 2006 Act.
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to General Meeting in 2014. take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal In accordance with its Business Principles, it is The directors have no present intention of exercising member or sponsored member or has appointed a the Companys policy not to make contributions this authority.
voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST to political parties.
There is no intention to change sponsor or voting service provider s take s such As at the date of this letter the Company does it.
However, what constitutes a political party, a action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the political organisation, political donations or political is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any Company in treasury.
expenditure under the Companies Act 2006 is not particular time.
In this connection, CREST members easy to decide as the legislation is capable of wide 11.
Resolution 15 disapplication of pre-emption rights: and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment voting service providers are referred, in particular, Resolution 15 will give the directors authority to allot of expenses, paid leave for employees fullling to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to public duties, and support for bodies representing practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
the authority granted under Resolution 14 for cash the business community in policy review or reform, 122 without complying with the pre-emption rights in the this notice and sets minimum and maximum prices.
this years AGM were to be exercised in full, these Companies Act 2006 in certain circumstances.
This This authority will expire at the conclusion of the options would represent 8.0% of the Companys authority will permit the directors to allot: Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014. issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
a shares up to a nominal amount of 1,052,006, The directors have no present intention of exercising 13.
Resolution 17 length of notice for general meetings: representing one-third of the Companys issued share the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary This is a resolution to allow the Company to hold capital on an offer to existing shareholders on a preshares but will keep the matter under review, taking general meetings other than Annual General emptive basis in each case subject to adjustments for into account the financial resources of the Company, Meetings on 14 days notice.
fractional entitlements and overseas shareholders as the Companys share price and future funding the directors see t : and opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if Before the introduction of the Companies the directors believe that to do so would result in an Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 159,395, increase in earnings per share and would be in the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases the minimum notice period permitted by the 2006 share capital of the Company as at 12 April 2013 of ordinary shares would be by means of market Act for general meetings other than annual general the latest practicable date prior to publication of this purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
One of the amendments notice otherwise than in connection with an offer to made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights existing shareholders.
Listed companies purchasing their own shares are Regulations was to increase the minimum notice allowed to hold them in treasury as an alternative to The directors have no present intention of exercising period for general meetings of listed companies to cancelling them.
No dividends are paid on shares this authority.
21 days, but with an ability for companies to reduce while they are held in treasury and no voting rights this period back to 14 days other than for annual The directors confirm their intention to follow the attach to treasury shares.
general meetings provided that two conditions are provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of If Resolution 16 is passed at the Meeting, it is the met.
The first condition is that the Company offers a Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities Companys current intention to cancel all of the shares facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The Principles it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted This condition is met if the Company offers a facility, provide that companies should not issue for cash to it.
However, in order to respond properly to the accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy shares representing in excess of 7.5% of the Companys capital requirements and prevailing market by means of a website.
The second condition is Companys issued share capital in any rolling threeconditions, the directors will need to reassess at the that there is an annual resolution of shareholders year period, other than to existing shareholders, time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold approving the reduction of the minimum notice period without prior consultation with shareholders.
the shares in treasury or cancel them, provided it is from 21 days to 14 days.
Resolution 16 buyback authority: permitted to do so.
The Board is therefore proposing Resolution 17 Resolution 16 gives the Company authority to As at 12 April 2013 the latest practicable date prior to as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the buy back its own ordinary shares in the market the publication of this notice, there were 22,803,165 minimum period of notice for all general meetings of as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The warrants and options to subscribe for shares in the the Company other than annual general meetings.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be capital of the Company representing 7.2% of the approval will be effective until the Companys next purchased to a maximum of 31,878,970 representing Companys issued share capital excluding treasury annual general meeting, when it is intended that the approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
If this authority to purchase the Companys approval be renewed.
The Board will consider on a share capital excluding treasury shares as at 12 April ordinary shares and the existing authority to purchase case by case basis whether the use of the exibility 2013 the latest practicable date prior to publication of taken at last years AGM which expires at the end of offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking 123 into account the circumstances, including whether the Executive Share Option Plan the 2010 ESOS in the PBT target and bonus potential of 50% of base salary business of the meeting is time sensitive.
same year in which they are granted Awards under assessed against strategic targets.
However, awards may be made under each amount of annual bonus that will be payable in cash 14.
Resolution 18 and 19 approval of the Michael plan in the same year if the Remuneration Committee will be 125% of salary reduced from 150% under the Page International Long Term Incentive Plan and the determines it appropriate to do so.
If awards are current bonus arrangements, and the remainder will Michael Page International Deferred Bonus Plan.
made under the new LTIP and the ESOS in the same be compulsorily deferred under the DBP.
The Board has undertaken a review of the Companys year, the Committee will take into account the total Further detail in relation to the proposed cash annual existing remuneration structure, which was expected value of award levels when determining the bonus arrangements are set out in the remuneration established when the Company was appreciably size of the grants under each.
smaller, and as part of this review the Company It is also proposed that, following vesting of an award Plan documents proposes to implement a new long term incentive under the LTIP, Executive Directors will be required to plan, and a new deferred bonus plan which will A summary of the rules of the LTIP and the DBP is hold the shares received for a further two years, other operate in connection with the new cash bonus set out in Appendix 1 to this document on pages 126 than to settle any tax liability, unless the individual has arrangements the Company will be implementing for to 129. already met the shareholding requirement, which will Executive Directors.
be increased to a requirement of 200% of base salary.
The rules of the LTIP and of the DBP are available for Michael Page International Long-Term This change, and the performance targets proposed inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Incentive Plan for Executive Directors under the new LTIP, places a Sundays and public holidays excepted at Herbert greater emphasis on remuneration being linked to the It is proposed that the Michael Page International Smith Freehills LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, longer term performance of the Company.
Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP will be London EC2A 2EG up until the close of the meeting.
introduced, and will replace the Companys current It is proposed that the first awards under the LTIP will The rules of the LTIP will also be available at the place primary long term incentive vehicle for Executive be granted in 2014. of the Meeting from 8.00 am on the morning of the Directors, the Michael Page Incentive Share Plan Meeting until its conclusion.
Michael Page International Deferred Bonus Plan ISP, which will expire during 2013.
To have the right to attend and vote whether in The Company currently operates a deferred bonus person or by proxy at the Meeting or adjourned Awards under the existing ISP were not capped as a arrangement.
However, because as part of the meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how percentage of salary and only one-third of each award review of the Companys remuneration structure many votes a person may cast, a person must have to Executive Directors was subject to longer term the Company proposes to introduce new cash his her name entered on the register of members performance targets.
The Company now proposes bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors as by no later than 6.00 pm on 4 June 2013 or if the that long term incentive awards are to be capped as explained below and introduce the new LTIP, the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm on the date which a percentage of salary and that the entire awards to Company proposes to take this opportunity to also is two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes Executive Directors will be subject to performance implement the new Deferred Bonus Plan.
to entries on the register after this time shall be targets, and this is reected in the proposed new LTIP.
The DBP will operate in respect of the new annual disregarded in determining the rights of any person It is proposed that the new LTIP will be the primary bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors, to attend or vote and the number of votes they may plan to be used to make annual awards to the pursuant to which annual bonus will be capped at cast at the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Companys Executive Directors, and that Executive 175% of base salary, with bonus potential of 125% Directors will not be granted awards under the 16.
A member of the Company which is a corporation of base salary assessed against achievement of a Companys other executive share plan, the 2010 may authorise a person or persons to act as its 124 representative s at the Meeting.
In accordance with its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later such representative may exercise on behalf of the than the time it makes its statement available on the corporation the same powers as the corporation website.
The business which may be dealt with at the could exercise if it were an individual member of the Meeting includes any statement that the Company Company, provided that they do not do so in relation has been required to publish on its website.
It is no longer necessary to 20.
The Company must cause to be answered at the nominate a designated corporate representative.
Meeting any question relating to the business 17.
As at 12 April 2013 being the latest business day being dealt with at the Meeting that is put by a prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys member attending the Meeting, except in certain issued share capital consists of 318,789,703 ordinary circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the shares.
The Employee benefit Trust holds 13,596,305 interests of the Company or the good order of the ordinary shares of the Company carrying no voting Meeting that the question be answered or if to rights.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the do so would involve the disclosure of condential total voting rights in the Company are 305,193,398. information.
The contents of this notice of Meeting, details of 21.
Copies of the directors service contracts with the the total number of shares in respect of which Company, and the terms and conditions of the nonmembers are entitled to exercise voting rights at the executive directors, are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during usual Meeting, details of the totals of the voting rights that business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public members are entitled to exercise at the Meeting and, holidays excepted and will be available at the place of if applicable, any members statements, members the Meeting from 8.00 am until its conclusion.
resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be 22.
You may not use any electronic address in this notice available on the Companys website: WWW PAGE COM of meeting to communicate with the Company for any investors purpose other than those expressly stated.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that is to be laid before the Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay 125 Awards are non-transferable other than to a ten years under the relevant plan and any other APPENDIX 1 Participants personal representatives following employees share scheme adopted by the Company SUMMARY OF THE MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL PLC his death.
to exceed ten per cent of the Companys ordinary LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AND THE MICHAEL PAGE share capital in issue immediately prior to the 1.4 Dividends INTERNATIONAL PLC DEFERRED BONUS PLAN proposed date of grant.
Participants granted a Restricted Share Award will, 1.
STRUCTURE OF THE LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN This second limit reects the operation of the dilution unless the Board determines otherwise, be entitled THE LTIP AND THE DEFERRED BONUS PLAN limit in the Companys existing 2010 Executive Share to receive any dividends paid on the Shares subject THE DBP Option Scheme as approved by shareholders at the to the Award.
Where the Board so determines, or for 2010 AGM.
1.1 Administration Participants granted a Conditional Award or Option, Any option or award which the Board has determined the Board may determine that Participants will be Awards will be granted, and the LTIP and the DBP will or which is granted on terms that it will only be satisfied entitled at the time of vesting or exercise of an Option be administered by the Board, or a duly authorised with existing Shares, and any Restricted Share Award to receive a cash payment or a transfer of additional committee thereof.
Awards for Executive Directors will granted using existing Shares, will not be subject to Shares equivalent to the dividends paid on the number be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
or counted in calculating these limits.
Treasury shares of Shares subject to the Award during the period from 1.2 Eligibility will count as new issue shares for the purposes of grant until vesting of the Award.
these limits for so long as institutional investor bodies Awards under the LTIP and the DBP may be granted 1.5 Plan limits consider that they should be so counted.
to employees including Executive Directors of the The following limits shall apply to each of the LTIP and Company and its subsidiaries Participants.
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE GRANT OF LTIP the DBP.
AWARDS 1.3 Form of Awards An Award may not be granted if it would cause the 2.1 Individual limit Under each plan, Awards will take the form of either: number of Shares subject to the Award, when added The maximum market value of the Shares over which a to the number of Shares subject to the outstanding s A CONDITIONAL RIGHT TO RECEIVE ORDINARY SHARES IN THE options or awards granted within the previous ten Participant may be granted an Award under the LTIP in Company Shares which will be automatically years and the number of Shares issued for the any calendar year shall not exceed an amount equal to transferred to the Participant following vesting a purpose of options and awards granted within the two times the Participants basic salary at that time or Conditional Award : previous ten years under the relevant plan and any such higher amount, if the Board decides otherwise in s A NIL COST OPTION EXERCISABLE BY THE 0ARTICIPANT other discretionary share scheme adopted by the exceptional circumstances.
following vesting during any period permitted for Company to exceed five per cent of the Companys The current intention is that LTIP Awards will be made exercise an Option : or ordinary share capital in issue immediately prior to the to Executive Directors with a value equal to two times proposed date of grant.
s AN INTEREST IN 3HARES WHICH WILL BE HELD BY A salary.
trustee on behalf of the Participant until vesting a An Award may not be granted if it would cause the 2.2 Timing of grant of LTIP Awards Restricted Share Award.
The Participant will not number of Shares subject to the Award, when added be entitled to call for or otherwise deal in the Shares LTIP Awards may only be granted within a period of to the number of Shares subject to the outstanding subject to a Restricted Share Award prior to vesting.
42 days commencing on i the date on which the LTIP options or awards granted within the previous ten is adopted or ii the date of announcement by the years and the number of Shares issued for the purpose Company of its interim or final results or as soon as of options and awards granted within the previous 126 practicable thereafter if the Company is restricted from report.
The levels at which these will be set will take bonus that shall be subject to compulsory deferral: being able to grant Awards during such period.
An into account market conditions, analysts consensus, and or ii invite the participant to elect to voluntarily LTIP Award may be granted at other times if the Board the long-range strategic plan and other appropriate defer a proportion of the eligible employees annual determines that exceptional circumstances exist which information available at the time.
bonus up to such limit as the Board may specify.
justify the grant of the Award.
Awards may not be Appropriate retrospective disclosure will be made on An Award under the DBP shall be granted over such granted under the LTIP more than ten years after the the strategic objectives and the Participants progress number of Shares as have an aggregate market value LTIP is adopted.
against these objectives to allow shareholders to on the dealing day immediately prior to the date of Nothing is payable by participants for the grant of understand the level of performance achieved.
grant equal to the proportion of the eligible employees LTIP Awards.
annual bonus that is deferred.
2.4 Normal vesting 3.2 Timing of grant of LTIP Awards 2.3 Performance Targets In normal circumstances, LTIP Awards will vest three The Board will specify prior to the date of grant years after the date of grant, while the Participant DBP Awards will be granted as soon as is reasonably the performance targets which are to apply to LTIP remains in ofce or employment with the Company or practicable following the determination of annual Awards.
The performance target will be measured any subsidiary the Group, and to the extent that the bonuses.
over a period of not less than three years, ending no relevant performance targets have been met.
3.3 Performance Targets later than the third anniversary of grant, and there will Shares subject to a Conditional Award will be As Awards under the DBP reect a deferral of earned be no provision for re-testing.
The Board may alter a transferred as soon as reasonably practicable after annual bonus, no further performance targets attach performance target if events happen that cause the vesting.
Shares subject to a Restricted Share Award to DBP Awards.
Board to consider that the performance target is no will be released as soon as reasonably practicable longer a fair measure of the Companys performance, 3.4 Normal vesting after vesting.
An Option may normally be exercised provided that the revised target may not be materially after vesting until the tenth anniversary of grant or In normal circumstances, Awards under the DBP will less challenging.
such shorter period as the Board may determine prior vest in two equal parts, on each of the first and second In respect of the first grant of LTIP Awards, it is to the date of grant.
anniversary of the date of grant.
proposed that 62.5% of the LTIP Award will be subject If the Board so determines, the vesting of an LTIP Shares subject to a Conditional Award will be to a stretching cumulative EPS performance condition, Award may be satisfied in whole or part by a cash transferred as soon as reasonably practicable after and 37.5% of the LTIP Award will be subject to longer payment as an alternative to the issue or transfer vesting.
Shares subject to a Restricted Share Award term strategic objectives.
Of the part of the LTIP Award of Shares.
will be released as soon as reasonably practicable linked to longer term strategic objectives, one-third after vesting.
An Option may normally be exercised 3.
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE GRANT OF will be set against a specic measurement of relative after vesting until the tenth anniversary of grant or DBP AWARDS growth to a comparator group.
such shorter period as the Board may determine at 3.1 Bonus deferral The EPS target is anticipated to be a three-year the date of grant.
cumulative target and will be disclosed in the The DBP shall operate in respect of the bonus If the Board so determines, the vesting of a DBP remuneration report in the year of grant.
The first arrangements of such eligible employees including Award may be satisfied in whole or part by a cash Awards under the LTIP are intended to be granted in Executive Directors as the Board may determine.
payment as an alternative to the issue or transfer 2014, and therefore the details of the cumulative EPS Where the DBP is operated, the Board may i specify a of Shares.
targets will be disclosed in next years remuneration proportion or amount of the eligible employees annual 127 127 4.
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO BOTH THE LTIP AND 4.1.
2 Death Where the vesting of an award would be prohibited THE DBP due to regulatory reasons, vesting shall be delayed.
In the event of a Participant ceasing to hold ofce or Where at the expiry of any permitted exercise period, 4.1 Leavers employment with the Group due to death, an Award the exercise of an Option would be prohibited due will vest immediately, and an Award in the form of an 4.1.
1 Cessation of ofce or employment to regulatory reasons, the relevant period shall be Option will be exercisable for a period of one year.
In the event of a Participant ceasing to hold ofce or 4.1.
3 International transfers employment with the Group other than due to any of 4.2 Corporate Actions the reasons specified below, an Award will immediately If a Participant is transferred to work in another country In the event that a person obtains control of the lapse.
as a result of which the Participant will suffer a tax Company by way of general offer, or if having obtained disadvantage or become subject to restrictions on An Award will not lapse where the cessation of Control of the Company, a person makes a general their ability to receive or deal in Shares, or to exercise ofce or employment with the Group is due to injury, offer, Awards will vest and Options may be exercised an Option, the Board may determine that an Award will disability, redundancy, retirement, the transfer of the for a period of six months.
vest prior to the date of such transfer, in which case Participants employment due to the sale of a business Award in the form of an Option will be exercisable If the Court sanctions a compromise or arrangement or undertaking or part business or undertaking, or during a period of six months or such shorter period that will result in a change of control of the Company, the company with which the Participant holds ofce or as the Board may determine.
Awards will vest and Options will be exercisable for employment ceasing to be a member of the Group, or a period of six months.
In the event of an approval any other reason if the Board so determines.
4 Extent of vesting of a merger of the Company into another company In the event that a Participant ceases to hold ofce LTIP Awards will only vest due to a Participant ceasing under European cross-border merger rules, Awards or employment due to one of these specified reasons to hold ofce or employment due to one of the reasons will vest and Options will be exercisable until the prior to the normal vesting date of an Award, the specified above other than death or an international merger becomes effective.
In the event of the passing transfer to the extent that the relevant performance Award will continue and vest on its normal vesting of a resolution for the voluntary winding-up of the targets have been met.
Where an LTIP Award vests date, and an Award in the form of an Option will be Company, Awards will vest and Options will be prior to the third anniversary of grant, the Board will exercisable for a period of six months thereafter.
The exercisable for a period of two months.
Options will assess performance using such information not Board may determine that an Award will instead vest lapse at the expiry of any such period if not exercised.
limited to published accounts as it determines to be on the date of cessation of ofce or employment, in In the event of a demerger of a substantial part of appropriate.
which case an Award in the form of an Option will be the Groups business, a special dividend or a similar exercisable during such period, of up to six months, as Where an Award vests prior to the normal vesting event affecting the value of the Shares to a material the Board may determine.
date due to one of the reasons specified above other extent, Awards will vest if the Board so determines, In the event that a Participant ceases to hold ofce or than death or an international transfer, the number of in which case Options may be exercised for a period employment for one of these specified reasons on or Shares in respect of which an Award vests will, unless of two months, or such longer period as the Board after the normal vesting date, an Award in the form of the Board determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reect may determine, and, unless the Board determines an Option will be exercisable during such period, of up the time elapsed to the early vesting date.
Options will otherwise, will lapse at the expiry of any such period to six months, as the Board may determine.
lapse at the expiry of any of the above periods to the if not exercised.
LTIP Awards will only vest to the extent the relevant performance targets have been met.
Where the 128 corporate event occurs prior to the third anniversary of committed an act or omission that justied, or would 4.6 Rights attaching to Shares grant, the Board will assess performance using such have justied, summary dismissal or service of notice As soon as practicable after the vesting of an Award information not limited to published accounts as it of termination of ofce or employment.
The excess or exercise of an Option, the appropriate number of shall determine.
number of Shares in respect of which the Award Shares will be issued or transferred, as appropriate, vested can be subject to the claw-back, which shall Where the corporate action occurs prior to the normal and the Company will apply to the London Stock be applied in such manner as the Board determines, vesting date of Awards the number of Shares in Exchange for a listing for any Shares for which a listing including by lapsing other share or cash awards held respect of which Awards vest will, unless the Board has not previously been granted.
Any Shares allotted by the Participant.
determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reect the will rank equally with all other issued Shares save that period to the date of the relevant event.
4.5 Alterations they will not be entitled to rights attaching to Shares by reference to a record date before the Shares are Where a company acquires the Company, or The Board may at any time alter or add to all or any of allotted or transferred.
substantially all the assets of the Company, as part of the provisions of the LTIP or the DBP in any respect, Participants will be entitled to exercise any voting an internal reorganisation unless the Board determines provided that any change to the advantage of present rights in respect of Shares subject to Restricted Share otherwise an Award will not vest, and instead will be or future Participants relating to eligibility, scheme Awards, but not otherwise.
rolled-over into an award over shares in the controlling limits, the basis of individual entitlement to, and the company of equivalent value in the case of a terms of, Shares or cash provided under the relevant 4.7 Benets are non-pensionable Restricted Share Award, unless the Board determines plan or the provisions for the adjustment of Awards in Benets under the LTIP and the DBP are nonotherwise, net of any tax liability that will arise as a the event of a variation of the Companys share capital pensionable.
must be approved in advance by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
4.3 Variation of capital Any alteration or addition which is necessary or The number of Shares subject to Awards will be desirable in order to comply with or take account of adjusted, in such manner as the Board may determine, the provisions of any proposed or existing legislation, following any variation of share capital of the Company law or other regulatory requirements or to take or save where the Board determines that such event advantage of any changes in legislation, law or other will be a vesting event a demerger of a substantial part regulatory requirements, or to obtain or maintain of the Groups business, a special dividend or a similar favourable taxation, exchange control or regulatory event affecting the value of the Shares to a material treatment of the Company, any subsidiary or any extent.
Participant or to make minor amendments to benefit 4.4 Claw-Back the administration of the LTIP or the DBP do not need prior approval of the Companys shareholders.
The Board may apply claw-back where at any time No alterations to the disadvantage of Participants within three years of vesting it determines that the subsisting rights can be made by the Board without financial results of the Company were misstated, or an the approval of Participants holding Awards over error was made in assessing performance, that caused 75% of the total Shares subject to Awards, or 75% of an Award to be granted, or to vest, to a greater degree Participants attending a meeting called in respect of than it should have done.
The Board may also apply the proposed alteration.
a claw-back if it is discovered that the Participant 129 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Business Review has been prepared solely to provide s PROVIDE ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES WHEN COMPLIANCE WITH THE 2. the Business Review, which is incorporated into additional information to shareholders to assess the specic requirements in lFRSs are insufficient to enable the directors report, includes a fair review of the Companys strategies and the potential for those strategies users to understand the impact of particular transactions, development and performance of the business and the to succeed.
other events and conditions on the entitys financial position of the Company and the undertakings included position and financial performance: and in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a The Business Review contains certain forward-looking description of the principal risks and uncertainties that statements.
These statements are made by the directors in s MAKE AN ASSESSMENT OF THE #OMPANY S ABILITY TO CONTINUE they face.
good faith based on the information available to them up to as a going concern.
the time of their approval of this report and such statements On behalf of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting should be treated with caution due to the inherent records that are sufficient to show and explain the uncertainties, including both economic and business risk Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable factors underlying any such forward-looking information.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Directors responsibilities and enable them to ensure that the financial statements S Ingham A Bracey comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 5 March 2013 5 March 2013 Report and the financial statements in accordance with and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors the directors to prepare such financial statements for each are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of financial year.
Under that law the directors are required the corporate and financial information included on the to prepare group financial statements in accordance with Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as governing the preparation and dissemination of financial adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the lAS statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by Directors responsibility statement the European Union.
Under company law the directors We confirm to the best of our knowledge: must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of with International Financial Reporting Standards as the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss directors are required to: of the Company and the undertakings included in the s PROPERLY SELECT AND APPLY ACCOUNTING POLICIES consolidation taken as a whole: and s PRESENT INFORMATION INCLUDING ACCOUNTING POLICIES IN A manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: 130 NOTES 131 NOTES 132 Part of the page.
com Michael Page International plc
