Company information Directors, Secretary, registered offi ce and advisers Directors Company Secretary, Registrars Kevin Loosemore Registered and Head Offi ce Equiniti Limited Executive Chairman Jane Smithard Aspect House The Lawn Spencer Road Mike Phillips 22-30 Old Bath Road Lancing Chief Financial Offi cer Newbury West Sussex BN99 6DA David Maloney Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Non-executive Senior Independent Director United Kingdom www.
co. uk and Deputy Chairman www.
com Brokers Tom Skelton Registered in England number 5134647 Numis Securities Limited Non-executive director The London Stock Exchange Building Karen Slatford Legal advisers 10 Paternoster Square Non-executive director Lawrence Graham LLP London EC4M 7LT 4 More London Riverside United Kingdom Tom Virden London Non-executive director SE1 2AU United Kingdom Auditors  LLP 9 Greyfriars Road Reading Berkshire RG1 1JG United Kingdom Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this annual report, including those under the factors include, among others: the level of expenditure committed to development captions entitled Executive Chairmans statement, operational and fi financial review, and deployment applications by organisations: the level of deployment-related directors report, corporate governance and remuneration report constitute forwardrevenue expected by the Company: the degree to which organisations adopt weblooking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding the Companys enabled services: the rate at which large organisations migrate applications from fi financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives.
These forward-looking the mainframe environment: the continued use and necessity of the mainframe for statements can be identifi ed by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the business critical applications: the degree of competition faced by Micro Focus: growth terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should in the information technology services market: general economic and business or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such conditions, particularly in the United States: changes in technology and competition: forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and and the Companys ability to attract and retain qualifi ed personnel.
These forwardother factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements looking statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future available to them at the time of their approval of this annual report.
Except as results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking required by the Financial Services Authority, or by law, the Company does not statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, regarding the Companys present and future business strategies and the environment whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
in which the Company will operate in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84 This Report is printed on materials which are FSC certifi ed from well-managed forests.
These materials contain ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and are 100% Recyclable.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
com Micro Focus International plc The Lawn 22-30 Old Bath Road Newbury Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1635 32646 Fax: 44 0 1635 33966 www.
