Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, that the fi financial statements and the directors remuneration report the directors remuneration report and the fi financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
fi financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Company law requires the directors to prepare fi financial statements Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention for each fi financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Group fi financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed Union, and the parent Company fi financial statements in accordance in the directors report confi rm that, to the best of their knowledge with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United andbelief: Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the fi financial statements unless they the Group fi financial statements, which have been prepared are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give of the Group and the Company and of the profi t or loss of the Group a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, fi financial position for that period.
In preparing these fi financial statements, the directors and profi t of the Group: and are required to: the directors report includes a fair review of the development Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and performance of the business and the position of the Group, consistently: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable andprudent: and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company fi financial statements respectively.
By order of the board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suffi cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure Jane Smithard Company Secretary 20 June 2012 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36
