Summary of signifi cant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2012 General information assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in Micro Focus International plc the Company is a public limited a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling of its registered offi ce is, The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the RG141QN, UK.
Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiaries Groups share of the identifi able net assets acquired is recorded as together the Group provide innovative software to clients around goodwill.
the world enabling them to dramatically improve the business value of their enterprise applications.
The Group has a presence in 29 Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on countries worldwide and employs in excess of 1,100 people.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
consistency with the policies adapted by the Group.
The Group consolidated fi financial statements were authorised for issue C Revenue recognition by the board of directors on 20 June 2012.
The Group recognises revenue from sales of software licences to end-users or resellers upon persuasive evidence of an arrangement, I Group accounting policies delivery of the software and determination that collection of a fi xed A Basis of preparation or determinable fee is reasonably assured.
When the fees for software The consolidated fi financial statements of Micro Focus International upgrades and enhancements, maintenance, consulting and training plc have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International are bundled with the licence fee, they are unbundled using Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the the Groups objective evidence of the fair value of the elements Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
represented by the Groups customary pricing for each element The consolidated fi financial statements have been prepared on a going in separate transactions.
If evidence of fair value exists for all undelivered concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modifi ed by elements and there is no such evidence of fair value established the revaluation of fi financial assets and liabilities including derivative for delivered elements, revenue is fi first allocated to the elements where instruments at fair value through the consolidated statement fair value has been established and the residual amount is allocated of comprehensive income.
If evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of the arrangement does not exist, all revenue from The preparation of fi financial statements in conformity with IFRS the arrangement is deferred until such time that evidence of fair value requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires exists or undelivered elements of the arrangement are delivered.
management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of If the arrangement includes acceptance criteria, revenue is not recognised judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates until the Group can objectively demonstrate that the acceptance criteria are signifi cant to the consolidated fi financial statements are disclosed has been met, or the acceptance period lapses, whichever is earlier.
The below in II, Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
Group recognises licence revenue derived from sales to resellers upon delivery to resellers, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria Balances as at 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010 have been restated are met, otherwise revenue is deferred and recognised upon delivery to refl ect adjustments made in the disclosure of provisions previously of the product to the end-user.
Maintenance revenue is derived from contained within trade and other payables see notes 15 and 20.
In providing technical support and software updates to customers.
addition, balances at 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010 have been restated Maintenance revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term to refl ect adjustments made in the disclosure of borrowings to show of the contract, which in most cases is one year.
Revenue from consulting unamortised prepaid facility arrangement fees previously contained within and training services is recognised on a percentage of completion basis trade and other receivables see notes 13 and 16.
In accordance with the as the services are performed.
The stage of completion is measured on requirements of IAS 1, Financial Statement Presentation, where a the basis of services performed to date as a percentage of the total restatement of an opening consolidated statement of fi financial position is services to be performed.
Amounts collected prior to satisfying the above made then the prior years consolidated statement of fi financial position revenue recognition criteria are included in deferred income.
should be published thus we have published 30 April 2010 numbers.
D Segment reporting B Consolidation In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the Group The fi financial statements of the Group comprise the fi financial statements has derived the information for its operating segments using of the Company and entities controlled by the Company, its subsidiaries, the information used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker the prepared at the balance sheet date.
Control exists where the Company Executive Committee.
Operating segments are consistent with has the power to govern the fi financial and operating policies of the those used in internal management reporting and the measure used entity so as to obtain benefi ts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries by the Executive Committee is the adjusted operating profi t for the are consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group.
Group as a whole as set out in note 4 and Adjusted EBITDA as set out The results of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date in note 4.
In the year ended 30 April 2011 resources were managed on which control passes from the Group.
on a global basis and accordingly the Executive Committee did not measure costs or operating profi t by segment and therefore the Group The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the has not reported operating profi t by segment for the year ended 30 acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition April 2011.
Effective from 1 May 2011, the Group has reduced its is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments number of operating segments to the three geographic regions with issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, with the Borland business now integrated within the regional organisations.
costs directly attributable to the acquisition being expensed.
Identifi able With effect from 1 May 2011 the Executive Committee delegated Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 responsibilities for directly managed costs to the Regional Presidents b Transactions and balances of the three geographic regions of the Group and then allocated Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional centrally managed costs to those regions, consequently for the three currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the operating segments the Group now measures Adjusted EBITDA.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year E Exceptional items end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated Exceptional items are those signifi cant items which are separately in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated statement disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full of comprehensive income.
understanding of the Groups fi financial performance.
c Group companies Examples of transactions which may be considered of an exceptional The results and fi financial position of all the Group entities that have nature include major restructuring programmes or cost of integrating a functional currency different from the presentation currency acquired businesses.
are translated into the presentation currency as follows: F Employee benefi t costs i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated a Pension obligations at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: Group companies operate various pension schemes.
All of the major schemes are defi ned contribution plans for which the Group pays ii income and expenses for each consolidated statement contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance of comprehensive income item are translated at average exchange plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the has no further payment obligations once the contributions have cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefi t in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as of the transactions : and an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
b Share based compensation The Group operated various equity-settled, share based compensation On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation plans during the year.
of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to other comprehensive income.
For shares or share options granted after 7 November 2002 and vested after 1 January 2005 the fair value of the employee services received Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition in exchange for the grant of the shares or options is recognised as an of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period entity and translated at the closing rate, with exception for goodwill is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or options arising before 1 May 2004 which is treated as an asset of the granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions Company and expressed in the Companys functional currency.
about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the d Exchange rates number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The most important foreign currencies for the Group are pounds It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, sterling and the Euro.
The exchange rates used are as follows: if any, in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, and 2012 2011 a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
||||| Average Closing Average Closing The shares are recognised when the options are exercised 1 $ 1.59 1.63 1.56 1.67 and the proceeds received allocated between ordinary shares 1 $ 1.37 1.32 1.33 1.48 and share premium account.
H Intangible assets Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
a Goodwill The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, the fair value of the net identifi able assets of the acquired subsidiary exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each G Foreign currency translation of those cash-generating units represents the Groups investment a Functional and presentation currency in each area of operation by each primary reporting segment.
The presentation currency of the Group is US dollars.
Items included in the fi financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured in the functional currency of each entity.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Summary of signifi cant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2012 continued As permitted under IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the UK The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted GAAP net book value at 1 May 2004 as the IFRS cost of goodwill if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount at transition date.
is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
b Computer software Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included incurred to acquire and bring into use the specifi c software.
These in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of three to fi five years.
J Impairment of non-fi financial assets Assets that have an indefi nite useful life are not subject c Research and development to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever incurred on development projects relating to the developing of new events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount computer software programmes and signifi cant enhancement of may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the existing computer software programmes are recognised as intangible amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, considering amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can be measured less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing reliably.
Only direct costs are capitalised which are the software impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there development employee costs.
Development costs previously recognised are separately identifi able cash fl ows cash-generating units.
as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development costs are amortised from the commencement of the K Inventories commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the period of its expected benefi t, typically being three years.
The cost of fi nished goods comprises software for resale and packaging materials.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the d Intangible assets arising on business combinations ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is charged When work has been performed and the revenue is not yet to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a recognised, the direct costs of third party contractors and staff will straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each intangible be treated as work in progress where the probability of invoicing asset.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available and evidence of collectability can be demonstrated.
The estimated useful lives will vary for each category of asset acquired and to date are as follows: L Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provisions for impairment.
A provision Purchased software Three to fi five years for impairment of trade receivables is established when there Development costs Three years is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all Trade names Three years amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Technology Seven to ten years The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets Customer relationships Two to ten years carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash fl ows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision Non-compete agreements Three to fi five years is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
I Property, plant and equipment M Cash and cash equivalents All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is on the balance sheet.
probable that future economic benefi ts associated with the item will fl ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
N Borrowings All other repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction consolidated statement of comprehensive income during the fi financial costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between the straight-line method to write off the cost of each asset to its cost and redemption value being recognised in the consolidated residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: statement of comprehensive income over the period of borrowing on an effective interest basis.
Land and buildings Thirty years Leasehold improvements Three to ten years O Leases Leases where the lessor retains a signifi cant portion of the risks Fixtures and fi ttings Five to seven years and rewards of ownership are classifi ed as operating leases.
Payments Computer equipment One to fi five years made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 lessor, are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
are not recognised for future operating losses.
P Taxation Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that Current and deferred tax are recognised in the consolidated statement an outfl ow will be required in settlement is determined by considering of comprehensive income, except when the tax relates to items the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also if the likelihood of an outfl ow with respect to any one item included dealt with directly in equity.
in the same class of obligations may be small.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated fi financial that refl ects current market assessments of the time value of money statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial and the risks specifi c to the obligation.
The increase in the provision recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profi t or loss, it is not accounted for.
T Adoption of new and revised International Financial Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Reporting Standards been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and The accounting policies adopted in these consolidated fi financial are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset statements are consistent with those of the annual fi financial is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred statements for the year ended 30 April 2011, with the exception income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable of the following standards, amendments to or interpretations that future taxable profi t will be available against which the temporary of published standards adopted during the year: differences can be utilised.
a The following standards, amendments to standards Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising or interpretations became effective during the year on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal to 30 April 2012 and have been adopted by the Group: of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and supersedes IAS 24, Current tax is recognised based on the amounts expected to be paid Related Party Disclosures which was issued in 2003. or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted The amendment to this standard clarifi es and simplifi es or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
the defi nition of a related party.
Q Ordinary shares, share premium and dividend distribution IAS 27 Revised.
Consolidated and Separate Financial Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares Statements The Group has adopted IFRS 3 Revised, or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from and so it is required to adopt IAS 27 Revised at the same time.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised no change in control and these transactions will no longer result as a liability in the Groups fi financial statements in the period in which in goodwill or gains or losses.
The standard also specifi es the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
is recognised in profi t or loss.
IAS 27 Revised has had no impact in the current period.
R Financial instruments and hedge accounting Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance b The following standards, amendments to standards sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision or interpretations were effective during the year ended of the instrument.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and 30 April 2012 but had no material impact on the Group: are stated at their fair value less the amount of any appropriate provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables are non-interest IFRIC 14 Amendment, Prepayment of a Minimum Funding bearing and are stated at their fair value.
Requirement, applies for periods beginning on or after 1January 2011.
The amendments correct an unintended In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not typically consequence of IFRIC 14.
Without the amendments, entities hold or issuederivative fi financial instruments for hedge accounting are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary or tradingpurposes.
prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
S Provisions IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities With Equity Provisions for onerous leases, restructuring costs and legal claims Investments, applies for periods beginning on or after are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 1 July 2010.
It clarifi es the accounting when an entity obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outfl ow renegotiates theterms of its debt with the result that of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount the liability is extinguished through the debtor issuing has been reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease its own equity instruments to the creditor.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Summary of signifi cant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2012 continued Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards precise defi nition of fair value and a source of fair value was issued in May 2010 with effective dates varying standard measurement and disclosure requirements.
The requirements do by standard.
not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied.
c The following standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are not yet effective and have not been IAS 27 Revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements, applies adopted early by the Group: for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard includes the provisions on separate fi financial statements that Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included on Derecognition for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. in the new IFRS 10.
These amendments arise from the IASBs review of off-balance sheet activities and will promote transparency in the reporting IAS 28 Revised 2011, Associates and Joint Ventures applies of transfer transactions.
for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates d The following standards, amendments to standards to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. or interpretations are not yet effective, have not yet been endorsed by the EU and have not been adopted early by the Group: Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, applies for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, for periods beginning on or after refl ects the joint IASB and FASB requirements to enhance 1 January 2015 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: correctoffsetting disclosures.
These new disclosures are Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new intended to facilitate comparison between those entities that requirements for classifying and measuring fi financial assets.
prepare IFRS fi financial statements and those that prepare USGAAP fi financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes applies for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
Currently IAS 12, Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, Income Taxes, requires an entity to measure the deferred tax applies for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects clarifi es some of the requirements for offsetting fi financial assets to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use and fi financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
The amendment introduces an exception to the existing principle for the measurement of deferred tax assets or liabilities The directors anticipate that the future introduction of those arising on investment property measured at fair value.
standards, amendments and interpretations listed above will not have a material impact on the consolidated fi financial statements.
IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefi ts, for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The amendment eliminates the corridor II Critical accounting estimates and assumptions approach and calculates fi finance costs on a net funding basis.
In preparing the consolidated fi financial statements, the Group has made its best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included Amendment to IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation applies in the fi financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality.
for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The main change The Group regularly reviews these estimates and updates them resulting from this is a requirement for entities to group items as required.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Unless presented in Other Comprehensive Income on the basis otherwise indicated, the Group does not believe that it is likely that of whether they are potentially recycled to profi t or loss.
materially different amounts would be reported related to the accounting estimates and assumptions described below.
The Group IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements applies for periods considers the following to be a description of the most signifi cant beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and provides additional estimates, which require the Group to make subjective and complex guidance to assist in determining control where this is diffi cult judgments, and matters that are inherently uncertain.
The standard identifi es the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should a Impairment of goodwill be included within the consolidated fi financial statements.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy 1J.
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements applies for periods beginning The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been on or after 1 January 2013 and provides for a refl ection of joint determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations require the use of estimates.
Details of the Groups impairment review of the arrangement rather than its legal form.
and sensitivities to changes in assumptions are disclosed in note 9.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities applies b Income taxes for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests Signifi cant judgment is required in determining the worldwide in other entities.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, applies for periods during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard aims to for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether improve the consistency and reduce complexity by providing a additional taxes will be due.
Where the fi final tax outcome of these Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, b Foreign currency risk such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign in the period in which such determination is made.
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the UK sterling, Yen and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk The Group carries appropriate provision, based on best estimates, arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets until tax computations are agreed with the taxation authorities.
and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognised c Acquisitions assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not When making acquisitions, the Group has to make judgments and the entitys functional currency.
best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
Appropriate advice is sought from professional advisors before making There were no hedging transactions in place at 30 April 2012. such allocations.
The valuation of goodwill and other intangibles is tested annually or whenever there are changes in circumstances The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose indicating that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
These net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
tests require the use of estimates.
Note 9 gives details of the Groups impairment reviews.
c Interest rate risk The Groups income and operating cash fl ows are substantially d Development expenditure independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group invests in the development of future products in accordance with the accounting policy IH c. The assessment as to The Groups interest rate risk arises from short-term borrowings.
whether this expenditure will achieve a complete product for which Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash fl ow the technical feasibility is assured is a matter of judgment, as is the interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
forecasting of how the product will generate future economic benefi t. The Group does not use interest rate swaps to manage its cash fl ow Finally, the period of time over which the economic benefi t associated interest rate risk at the present time due to low market rates.
with the expenditure occurred will arise is also a matter of judgment.
These judgments are made by evaluating the development plan d Liquidity risk prepared by the research and development department and approved Central treasury carries out cash fl ow forecasting for the Group by management, regularly monitoring progress by using an established to ensure that it has suffi cient cash to meet operational requirements set of criteria for assessing technical feasibility and benchmarking to and to allow the repayment of the bank facility.
Surplus cash in the operating units over and above what is required III Financial risk factors for working capital needs are transferred to Group treasury.
These The Groups multi-national operations expose it to a variety of fi financial funds are used to repay bank borrowings or invested in interest bearing risks that include the effects of changes in credit risk, foreign currency current accounts, time deposits or money market deposits of the risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Risk management is carried out appropriate maturity period determined by consolidated cash forecasts.
by a central treasury department under policies approved by the board of directors.
Group treasury identifi es and evaluates fi financial risks Trade payables arise in the normal course of business and are alongside the Groups operating units.
The board provides written all current.
principles for risk management together with specifi c policies covering areas such as credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, and Borrowings relate to our unsecured $275m bank facility see note 16. liquidity risk, use of derivative fi financial instruments and non-derivative The balance is considered current as it is a revolving credit facility fi financial instruments as appropriate, and investment of excess funds.
In accordance with the treasury policy, the Group does not typically Onerous lease provisions are expected to mature between less than hold or issue derivative fi financial instruments.
twelve months and six years.
a Credit risk Financial instruments which potentially expose the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable.
Cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality fi financial institutions.
The Group provides credit to customers in the normal course of business.
Collateral is not required for those receivables, but ongoing credit evaluations of customers fi financial conditions are performed.
The Group maintains a provision for impairment based upon the expected collectability of accounts receivable.
The Group sells products and services to a wide range of customers around the world and therefore believes there is no material concentration of credit risk.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
