Notes to the financial statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 September 2012 1.
General information and estimates are in respect of property, plant Going concern Mitchells & Butlers plc is a company and equipment: asset impairments: exceptional The Groups business activities, together incorporated in the United Kingdom under items and other adjustments: pensions: and with the factors likely to affect its future the Companies Act.
Details of these judgements and development, performance and position are estimates are set out in the relevant accounting set out in the Overview and Financial review The consolidated financial statements are policy and detailed note to the financial on pages 1 to 20.
The financial position of presented in pounds sterling rounded to the statements as set out below: the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and nearest million, being the functional currency borrowing facilities are also described within of the primary economic environment in which property, plant and equipment assumptions the review.
the parent and most subsidiaries operate.
are made in the valuation of properties in relation to fair maintainable trading levels In addition, note 18 to the financial statements Mitchells & Butlers plc, along with its and the property market.
Assumptions are includes the Groups objectives, policies and subsidiaries, together the Group is required also made regarding assets useful lives processes for managing its capital: its financial to prepare its consolidated financial statements and residual value in relation to plant and risk management objectives: details of its in accordance with International Financial equipment see accounting policy on financial instruments and hedging activities: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by property, plant and equipment and note 13 : and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity the European Union and in accordance asset impairments assumptions are made risk.
As highlighted in note 17 to the financial with the Companies Act 2006. in relation to the value in use calculation, statements, the Groups financing is based including projected cash flows, future upon securitised debt.
The financial statements have been prepared on growth rates and the appropriate discount the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation rate to apply to these see accounting The Directors have, at the time of approving the of properties and financial instruments.
policies on property, plant and equipment financial statements, a reasonable expectation and goodwill : that the Company and the Group have adequate The Group revalues the majority of its freehold exceptional items and other adjustments resources to continue in operational existence and long leasehold properties to fair value, for determination of items which are for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue accounting purposes, which it reviews at least separately identified by virtue of their to adopt the going concern basis of accounting annually.
Short leasehold properties, unlicensed size or incidence so as to allow a better in preparing the financial statements.
properties, fixtures and fittings are held at cost, understanding of the underlying trading less depreciation and impairment provisions.
performance of the Group see accounting Business combinations Non-current assets held for sale are held at their policy on adjusted profit and note 8 : Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses carrying value in accordance with the Groups pensions actuarial assumptions in respect are accounted for using the acquisition policy or their fair value less costs to sell where of the defined benefit pension scheme method.
The consideration for each acquisition this is lower.
The Groups policy is to account for liability include judgements in relation to is measured at the aggregate of the fair values land held under both long and short leasehold long-term interest rates, inflation, investment of assets given and liabilities incurred or contracts as operating leases, since it has no returns and longevity of current and future assumed by the Group in exchange for control expectation that title will pass on expiry of the pensioners see accounting policy on of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are lease contracts.
pension obligations and note 7 : and recognised in the income statement as incurred.
taxation assessing the outcome of The Groups accounting policies have been uncertain tax positions requires judgements The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and applied consistently.
to be made in relation to the likely outcome contingent liabilities that meet the conditions of negotiations with and enquiries from tax for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are Basis of preparation authorities and in some cases an assessment recognised at their fair value at the acquisition The Groups accounting reference date is of the likely outcome of other case law see date, except that: 30 September.
The Group draws up its financial accounting policy on tax and notes 10, 16 statements to the Saturday directly before or and 19. deferred tax assets or liabilities and following the accounting reference date, as liabilities or assets related to employee permitted by section 390 3 of the Companies Basis of consolidation benefit arrangements are recognised Act 2006.
As a result, the financial year ending The consolidated financial statements and measured in accordance with 29 September 2012 includes 53 trading weeks.
incorporate the financial statements of Mitchells IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 & Butlers plc the Company and entities Employee Benefits respectively: Critical accounting judgements controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
liabilities or equity instruments related and estimates The financial statements of the subsidiaries are to the replacement by the Group of an The preparation of the consolidated financial prepared for the same financial reporting period acquirees share-based payment awards statements requires management to make as the Company.
Where necessary, adjustments are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 judgements, estimates and assumptions in the are made to the financial statements of Share-Based Payment: and application of accounting policies that affect subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies assets or disposal groups that are reported amounts of assets and liabilities, into line with those used by the Group.
classified as held for sale in accordance income and expense.
Intercompany transactions, balances and with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for unrealised gains and losses on transactions Sale and Discontinued Operations are Estimates and judgements are periodically between Group companies are eliminated measured in accordance with that standard.
evaluated and are based on historical on consolidation.
experience and other factors including If the initial accounting for a business expectations of future events that are believed The results of subsidiaries acquired during the combination is incomplete by the end of the to be reasonable under the circumstances.
year are included in the consolidated income reporting period in which the combination Actual results may differ from these estimates.
statement from the date of acquisition.
occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts The Groups critical accounting judgements for the items for which the accounting is 48 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are Non-current assets held for sale are held at their amount may not be recoverable.
An adjusted during the measurement period carrying value in accordance with the Groups impairment loss is recognised whenever see below, or additional assets or liabilities are policy or their fair value less costs to sell where the carrying amount of an outlet exceeds its recognised, to reflect new information obtained this is lower.
The revaluation is a significant recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount about facts and circumstances that existed as of accounting judgement.
Valuation multiples is the higher of an outlets fair value less costs the acquisition date that, if known, would have are determined via third party inspection of to sell and value in use.
In determining the value affected the amounts recognised as of the date.
20% of the sites such that all sites are individually in use of an outlet, the Group is required to valued approximately every five years.
Key make various judgements regarding the outlets The measurement period is the period from accounting judgements are also made in projected cash flows and the appropriate the date of acquisition to the date the Group determining fair maintainable trade.
The discount rate to apply to these.
These obtains complete information about facts and Directors believe that their estimates, which are judgements include estimating the future circumstances that existed as of the acquisition based on the current state of the UK property growth rate and profitability of the outlet.
date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Surpluses which arise from the revaluation exercise are included Where an impairment loss subsequently Intangible assets within other comprehensive income in the reverses, the carrying amount of the asset Goodwill revaluation reserve unless they are reversing is increased to the revised estimate of its Goodwill arising in respect of acquisitions, a revaluation adjustment which has been recoverable amount, but only so that the being the excess of the purchase consideration recognised in the income statement previously: increased carrying amount does not exceed over the fair value attributed to the separately in which case an amount equal to a maximum the carrying amount that would have been identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent of that recognised in the income statement determined had no impairment loss been liabilities acquired, is stated at cost less any previously is recognised in income.
Where recognised for the asset in prior years.
Goodwill is not amortised, the revaluation exercise gives rise to a deficit, A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised but is reviewed for impairment annually or more this is reflected directly within the income as income immediately.
An impairment reversal frequently if events or changes in circumstances statement, unless it is reversing a previous is only recognised where there is a change in indicate that the carrying value may be revaluation surplus against the same asset: in the estimates used to determine recoverable impaired.
The impairment review requires which case an amount equal to the maximum amounts, not where it results from the management to undertake certain judgements, of the revaluation surplus is recognised within passage of time.
including estimating the recoverable value of other comprehensive income in the the business to which the goodwill relates, revaluation reserve.
Operating leases based on either the fair value less costs to sell or Leases in which substantially all the risks the value in use, in order to reach a conclusion Depreciation is charged to the income and rewards of ownership are retained by as to whether it deems the goodwill to be statement on a straight line basis over the the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Value in use estimates are based estimated useful lives of items of property, Payments made under operating leases on managements projection of the cash flows plant and equipment.
Freehold land is not and sub-leases are charged to the income that the business will generate, after applying depreciated.
Freehold and long leasehold statement on a straight line basis over the a suitable discount rate.
Fair value less costs to properties are depreciated so that the period of the lease.
Lease incentives are sell is based on managements assessment of difference between their carrying value and recognised as a liability and a subsequent the net proceeds which could be generated estimated residual value is written off over reduction in the rental expense over the through disposing of the business to which the 50 years from the date of acquisition.
The lease term on a straight line basis.
Any impairment is recognised residual value of freehold and long leasehold immediately in the income statement and is properties is reviewed at least annually.
Premiums paid on acquiring a new lease are not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a Leasehold properties are depreciated over the spread on a straight line basis over the lease subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill unexpired term of the lease where this is less term.
Such premiums are classified in the is included in the determination of the profit or than 50 years.
The cost less residual value balance sheet as current or non-current loss on disposal.
based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet prepayments, with the current portion being date of plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings the element which relates to the following Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to and equipment is spread by equal instalments financial period.
30 September 1998 was eliminated against over the estimated life of the relevant assets, reserves and is not included in determining namely: The Groups policy is to account for land any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
held under both long and short leasehold Information technology equipment 3-7 years contracts as operating leases, since it has Vehicles 4-5 years Computer software no expectation that title will pass on expiry Fixtures and fittings 3-20 years Computer software and associated development of the lease contracts.
costs, which are not an integral part of a related Expected useful lives and residual values are item of hardware, are capitalised as an intangible The Group is party to a small number of reviewed each year and adjusted if appropriate.
asset and amortised on a straight line basis over leases on properties which are no longer their useful life.
The period of amortisation trading profitably.
Whilst every effort is made Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant ranges between three and ten years with the to sublet these properties, it is not always and equipment are calculated as the difference majority being five years.
Where a lease is onerous to the between the net sales proceeds and the carrying Group a provision is established based on the amount of the asset at the date of disposal.
Property, plant and equipment Directors best estimate of the present value The Group revalues the majority of its freehold of the payments up until the point it is judged The carrying values of property, plant and and long leasehold licensed properties to fair the lease will no longer be onerous.
equipment which are not revalued to fair value, for accounting purposes.
Short leasehold market value are reviewed on an outlet properties, unlicensed properties, fixtures basis for impairment if events or changes and fittings are held at deemed cost less in circumstances indicate that the carrying depreciation and impairment provisions.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 49 Notes to the financial statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 September 2012 continued 1.
General information continued For certain categories of financial asset, such control the transferred asset, the Group Inventories as trade receivables, assets that are assessed recognises its retained interest in the asset Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and not to be impaired individually are, in addition, and an associated liability for amounts it may net realisable value.
Cost is calculated using assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
If the Group retains substantially the weighted average method.
Work in Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio all the risks and rewards of ownership of progress is in respect of property development of receivables could include the Groups past a transferred financial asset, the Group activities and includes the direct costs of the experience of collecting payments, an increase continues to recognise the financial developments and associated professional fees.
in the number of delayed payments in the asset and also recognises a collateralised portfolio past the average credit period of borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial instruments 60 days, as well as observable changes in Financial assets and financial liabilities are national or local economic conditions that Trade and other receivables recognised in the Groups balance sheet when correlate with default on receivables.
Trade and other receivables are recognised the Group becomes a party to the contractual and carried at original cost less an allowance provisions of the instrument.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, for any uncollectable amounts.
the amount of the impairment is the difference Financial assets between the assets carrying amount and the Cash and cash equivalents All financial assets are recognised and present value of estimated future cash flows, Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at derecognised on a trade date where the discounted at the financial assets original bank and in hand and other short-term highly purchase or sale of a financial asset is under effective interest rate.
liquid deposits with an original maturity at a contract whose terms require delivery of the acquisition of three months or less.
Cash financial asset within the time frame established The carrying amount of the financial asset is held on deposit with an original maturity by the market concerned, and are initially reduced by the impairment loss directly for at acquisition of more than three months is measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, all financial assets with the exception of trade disclosed as current asset investments.
For except for those financial assets classified as receivables, where the carrying amount is the purposes of the cash flow statement, at fair value through profit or loss, which are reduced through the use of an allowance cash and cash equivalents consist of cash initially measured at fair value.
When a trade receivable is considered and cash equivalents as defined above, net uncollectable, it is written off against the of bank overdrafts that are repayable on Financial assets are classified into the following allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of demand and that are integral to the specified categories: financial assets at fair amounts previously written off are credited Groups cash management.
value through profit or loss FVTPL : derivative against the allowance account.
Changes in the instruments in designated hedge accounting carrying amount of the allowance account are Trade and other payables relationships: held-to-maturity investments: recognised in profit or loss.
Trade and other payables are recognised available-for-sale AFS financial assets: and at original cost.
The classification When an AFS financial asset is considered to be depends on the nature and purpose of the impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously Borrowings financial assets and is determined at the time recognised in other comprehensive income are Borrowings, which include the Groups of initial recognition.
reclassified to profit or loss in the period.
secured loan notes, are stated initially at fair value normally the amount of the proceeds Impairment of financial assets With the exception of AFS equity instruments, net of issue costs.
Thereafter they are stated Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the at amortised cost using an effective interest assessed for indicators of impairment at each impairment loss decreases and the decrease can basis.
Finance costs, which are the difference balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired be related objectively to an event occurring after between the net proceeds and the total where there is objective evidence that, as a the impairment was recognised, the previously amount of payments to be made in respect of result of one or more events that occurred after recognised impairment loss is reversed through the instruments, are allocated over the term of the initial recognition of the financial asset, the profit or loss to the extent that the carrying the debt using the effective interest method.
estimated future cash flows of the investment amount of the investment at the date the have been affected.
impairment is reversed does not exceed what Effective interest method the amortised cost would have been had the The effective interest method is a method For listed and unlisted equity investments impairment not been recognised.
of calculating the amortised cost of a debt classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged instrument and of allocating interest income decline in the fair value of the security below In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment over the relevant period.
The effective interest its cost is considered to be objective evidence losses previously recognised in profit or loss are rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated of impairment.
not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase future cash receipts including all fees and in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is points paid or received that form an integral For all other financial assets, including recognised in other comprehensive income.
part of the effective interest rate, transaction redeemable notes classified as AFS and finance costs and other premiums or discounts lease receivables, objective evidence of Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities through the expected life of the debt impairment could include: The Group derecognises a financial asset only instrument, or where appropriate, a shorter when the contractual rights to the cash flows period, to the net carrying amount on significant financial difficulty of the issuer from the asset expire, or when it transfers the initial recognition.
or counterparty: or financial asset and substantially all the risks default or delinquency in interest or and rewards of ownership of the asset to Income is recognised on an effective interest principal payments: or another entity.
If the Group neither transfers basis for debt instruments other than those it becoming probable that the borrower will nor retains substantially all the risks and financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
rewards of ownership and continues to 50 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Derivative financial instruments On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax and hedge accounting the Groups overseas operations are translated positions requires judgements to be made in The Group uses interest rate and currency into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange relation to the likely outcome of negotiations swap contracts to hedge its exposure to ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of with and enquiries from tax authorities and changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
overseas operations are translated into sterling in some cases e. g. recoverability of VAT on These contracts are designated as cash flow at average rates of exchange for the period.
gaming machines refer to note 16, an hedges and hedge accounting is applied Exchange differences arising from the assessment of the likely outcome of other where the necessary criteria under IAS 39 are translation of the results and the retranslation case law.
Derivative financial instruments are not of opening net assets denominated in foreign used for trading or speculative purposes.
currencies are taken directly to the Groups Pension obligations translation reserve.
When an overseas The Group has both defined benefit and Derivative financial instruments are initially operation is sold, such exchange differences defined contribution pension arrangements.
measured at fair value on the contract date, are recognised in the income statement as and are re-measured to fair value at subsequent part of the gain or loss on sale.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet reporting dates.
Fair value is calculated as the in respect of the Groups defined benefit present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Revenue arrangements is the present value of the Revenue is the fair value of goods and services defined benefit obligation, less the fair value Changes in the fair value of derivative sold to third parties as part of the Groups of the scheme assets.
The cost of providing instruments that are designated and effective trading activities, after deducting sales-based benefits is determined using the projected as hedges of highly probable future cash flows taxes, coupons and staff discounts.
unit credit method as determined annually by are recognised in equity.
The cumulative gain qualified actuaries.
This is based on a number or loss is transferred from equity and recognised The majority of revenue comprises food and of financial assumptions and estimates, the in the income statement at the same time as the beverages sold in the Groups outlets.
This determination of which is significant to the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The revenue is recognised at the point of sale to balance sheet valuation.
These are set out ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised the customer.
Revenue arising from the sale of and discussed in note 7 Pensions and include in the income statement immediately.
development property is recognised on legal judgements in relation to long-term interest completion of the sale.
Revenue relating to rates, inflation, investment returns and Movements in the fair value of derivative transitional service agreements is recognised longevity of current and future pensioners.
instruments which do not qualify for hedge at the point which the service is provided.
accounting are recognised in the income There is no current service cost as all defined statement immediately.
Operating profit benefit schemes are closed to future accrual.
Operating profit is stated after charging The interest cost and the expected return Hedge accounting is discontinued when restructuring costs and movements in valuation on assets are shown as a net amount within the hedging instrument expires or is sold, of the property portfolio but before investment finance income or finance expense.
Actuarial terminated, or no longer qualifies for hedge income and finance costs.
gains and losses are recognised in full in the accounting.
At that point, the cumulative period in which they occur, in the statement gain or loss in equity remains in equity and Tax of comprehensive income, rather than the is recognised in accordance with the above The income tax expense represents both the income statement.
Curtailments and policy when the transaction affects profit or income tax payable, based on profits for the settlements relating to the Groups defined loss.
If the hedged transaction is no longer year, and deferred tax and is calculated using benefit plan are recognised in the income expected to occur, the cumulative gain or tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement in the period in which the loss recognised in equity is recognised in balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from curtailment or settlement occurs.
net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense For the defined contribution arrangements, Equity instruments which are not taxable.
Income tax is recognised the charge against profit is equal to the amount An equity instrument is any contract that in the income statement except when it relates of contributions payable for that period.
evidences a residual interest in the assets of to items charged or credited directly to equity, an entity after deducting all liabilities.
Equity in which case the income tax is also charged or Share-based compensation instruments issued by the Company are credited to equity.
The Group operates a number of recorded at the fair value of the proceeds equity-settled share-based compensation received, net of direct issue costs.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary plans, whereby, subject to meeting any differences between the carrying amounts relevant conditions, employees are awarded Foreign currencies of assets and liabilities for financial reporting shares or rights over shares.
The cost of such Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded purposes and the amount of their tax bases.
awards is measured at fair value, excluding at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the effect of non market-based vesting transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities temporary differences associated with conditions, on the date of grant.
The expense denominated in foreign currencies are investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of is recognised over the vesting period and is translated into the functional currency at the the reversal of the temporary difference can be adjusted for the estimated effect of non relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance controlled and it is probable that the temporary market-based vesting conditions and sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising difference will not reverse in the foreseeable forfeitures, on the number of shares that will on translation are recognised in the income future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is eventually vest due to employees leaving the statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities based on the expected manner of realisation or employment of the Group.
Fair values are are measured at cost using the exchange rate settlement of the carrying amount of assets and calculated using either the Black-Scholes, on the date of the initial transaction.
Deferred tax assets are recognised Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation models only to the extent that it is probable that future depending on the conditions attached to the taxable profits will be available against which particular share scheme.
the asset can be utilised.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 51 Notes to the financial statements For the 53 weeks ended 29 September 2012 continued 1.
General information continued Adjusted profit Amendment to IAS 19 mandates the use Own shares In addition to presenting information on an of the IAS 19 discount rate in calculating the The cost of own shares held in employee IFRS basis, the Group also presents adjusted expected return on pension scheme assets share trusts and in treasury are deducted profit and earnings per share information rather than using the return that might be from shareholders equity until the shares are that excludes exceptional items and other expected from a balanced portfolio of equities, cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such adjustments including the related tax on these bonds and other assets.
This will be effective shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the items.
This adjusted information is disclosed for the Group in 2013 14. fair value of any consideration received is also to allow a better understanding of the included in shareholders equity.
underlying trading performance of the Group IFRS 9 Financial Statements simplifies the and is consistent with the Groups internal classification, recognition and measurement Provisions management reporting.
Exceptional items are requirements for financial assets, financial Provisions are recognised when the Group those which are separately identified by virtue liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell has a present legal or constructive obligation as of their size or incidence so as to allow a better non-financial items.
This will be effective for a result of past events: it is more likely than not understanding of the underlying trading the Group in 2015 16, if adopted by the that an outflow of resources will be required performance of the Group.
These items include European Union.
to settle the obligation: and the amount can movements in the valuation of the property be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured portfolio as a result of the annual revaluation The following standards will be effective using the Directors best estimate of the exercise, impairment review of short leasehold for the Group in 2013 14: expenditure required to settle the obligation and unlicensed properties and restructuring at the balance sheet date and are discounted costs see note 8.
Other adjustments excluded IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: to present value where the effect is material.
from adjusted profit and earnings per share IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 comprise the IAS 19 net pensions finance Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: and Dividends charge which can be volatile, as it is calculated IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements.
Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid at with reference to long-term interest rates and the year end are not recognised in the financial represents a non-cash charge.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption statements until they have been approved by of the standards listed above will have a shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Recent accounting developments material impact on the financial statements of Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
The International Accounting Standards Board the Group in future periods, except IFRS 13 No dividends were proposed or paid in either IASB and International Financial Reporting which will impact the measurement of fair value the current or the prior period.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued for certain assets and liabilities as well as the the following standards and interpretations associated disclosures.
Beyond this, it is not which could impact the Group, with an effective practicable to provide a reasonable estimate date after the date of these financial statements.
of the effect of these standards until a detailed They have not been adopted early by the review has been completed.
Group and are not expected to have any material impact.
Exchange rates The results of overseas operations have been translated into sterling at the weighted average euro rate of exchange for the financial period of 1 1.23 2011 1 1.15, where this is a reasonable approximation to the rate at the dates of the transactions.
Euro and US denominated assets and liabilities have been translated at the relevant rate of exchange at the balance sheet date of 1 1.26 2011 1 1.15 and 1 $1.61 2011 1 $1.55 respectively.
52 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012
