MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Factors that could affect our business A summary of the principalrisks potentially affecting our business Following the establishment of our new Enterprise Risk function in 2011, a fundamental review of the way risks are identied, analysed and controlled was undertaken during the year.
As a result of this comprehensive review a more streamlined approach to establishing our principal risks has been carried out, resulting in the number ofidentied risks moving from 19 in the last Annual Report to 12currently.
This improvement in our risk management approach furtherenhances our ability to develop and grow our business withtheassurance that key risks are effectively managed through robustandembedded processes, with management prioritising theirresource to address significant areas of risk.
The principal  we face are set out below.
Strategic risks Category Areas of risk Mitigation Utilising new technologies to drive efficiency Focus on clear strategic priorities.
Business case Loss of competitive improvements.
Unclear forinvestment in new infrastructure technologies.
position or inappropriate marketing strategy.
Recruitment and retention of talented people.
Bidding and winning large scale contracts.
Incorrectly Relationship management with key targets.
Focuson Inadequate contract priced tenders.
Experienced teams whocan adapt to performance Services and technologies donot t the needs of the changing markets.
Useof internaland external legal market.
Knowledge and familiarity of local legislature, regulations Local management assigned to provide local expertise.
Inability to support and common practices particularly innew territories.
Delegated Board Authority for entry into overseas development Political risk.
Insurance programme innewmarkets in place locally.
Inappropriate dealing with stakeholders Management systems to prevent fraud economic Reputational damage employees, clientsandsupply chain.
Whistleblowing and condential reporting system.
Bribery Technology solutions to review and analysetransactions.
notworking to and corruption exposure.
Training in developing aresponsible culture.
companyvalues Customers reduce volume value of services.
Extensive use of credit exposure Market conditions Increasedprice competition.
Changes in public consolidation tool.
Hedging against economic climate spending.
Ination and interest rate uncertainty.
negatively impacting Customers going into administration and bad debts.
onperformance Customers face difficulty raising funds.
Regulatory risks Category Areas of risk Mitigation Lack of awareness or action outside of relevant laws Departmental responsibility for relevant regulatory Non-compliance andregulations andsubsequent changes thereto.
Specic withlegislation compliance systems in place.
46 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial risks Category Areas of risk Mitigation Facility maturity risk.
Change of Committed bank facility in place spread across Inadequate liquidity credit terms with client and suppliers.
Credit control and sixbanksand ongoing relationships with funders.
tomeet requirements cash ow management.
USPrivate Placement funds of 100m and long term obligations Increased pensionscheme liabilities.
Regular reporting on key indicators.
Statements of compliance with borrowing powers.
Dailyand weekly monitoring of bank balances and net debt.
Risk of breach of insurance conditions covenants.
Failure Group and Division Business Management System.
Crystallisation of losses to log and or provide sufficient and complete information Co-ordination of QHSE, Business Risk and Insurance onuninsuredrisks for each business activity risk exposure.
Failure to adequately control activities.
expert insurance and other advisers for risk assessment.
Financial instability and failure risk of clients, Legal review of contracts and formal, regular Failure of material suppliers, advisers, insurers and funding providers counterparty status assessment.
Delegatedauthority counterparty increased incurrent climate.
Funding becomes more for approval and review ofcounterparty relationships.
orjointventure expensive or is withdrawn.
Diversication of counterparty base to limit Pension scheme counterparties may be underfunded dependencies.
Operational risks Category Areas of risk Mitigation Incident caused by MITIE or its sub-contractors.
Working Ongoing training for all employees supported by QHSE Major health, safety or at height.
Working with electricity, gas, asbestos or other professionals.
Provision of appropriate equipment and PPE.
Fire, water Specic procedures in place forhigh risk areas.
Internal and and waste management.
and slips, trips and falls.
Failure of critical systems, controls, processes or Dened business management systems, policies, control Trading position networks.
Malicious software compromised due Non-conformance with legislation.
Multiple network routes to data centres.
tosystem, control Experienced in-house IT resources.
Systems support and backorprocessfailure ups.
Diversityand geographic spread of operations.
Flexible workforce and network access.
Internal audit, including the use of computer assisted techniques.
Attraction, motivation, retention and development Competitive remuneration.
Talent management and Inability to attract and of talented people.
47 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW become a mentor on the ICAEWs Women in %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV Leadership Programme.
Roger Matthews Bill Robson Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Bill joined MITIE Group PLC in January 1992 following the Member of the Remuneration Committees acquisition of Trident Maintenance Services Limited.
He was Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of MITIE appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001 and now Group PLC in December 2006 and was later appointed holds the position of Managing Director of the groups as Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
Roger previously Property Management division.
held the roles of Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc Larry Hirst CBE and Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director of Compass Group PLC.
Roger is a Non-Executive Chairman Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on the board of LSL Property Services PLC and was recently appointed Chairman for Pertemps Network Group Limited.
Larry joined MITIE as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February He is also a Non-Executive Director of Zetar PLC and a 2010.
He held the position of Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
East and Africa until July 2010 and held a number of senior positions during his 32 year career with IBM including General Ian Stewart Manager, IBM Northern Region and Chief Executive, IBM UK Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Ireland.
Larry was previously appointed as Chairman of Ian was appointed as Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC e-skills Sector Skills Council.
Larry is a Non-Executive Director in 2001 and was appointed as Non-Executive Deputy of ARM Holdings plc and is also Non-Executive Chairman Chairman in March 2007.
Ian was a founding member of of UK Trade and Industry Technology Board.
Ian has announced his retirement from the Board with of the charity Sentebale, an Ambassador to Everywoman, effect from 21 May 2012. International Advisor to British Airways and a Global Ambassador to Monitise plc.
Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE Chief Executive David Jenkins Ruby was appointed Group Finance Director of MITIE Group Senior Independent Director PLC in December 2002, was appointed Chief Operating Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Officer in September 2005 and was appointed the Groups Chief Executive in March 2007.
Prior to joining MITIE, Ruby David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March held a range of senior roles within the support services sector, 2006.
David was previously a senior partner with Deloitte LLP primarily at Serco Group plc.
Ruby has been a Non-Executive in London having spent over 20 years in Assurance and Director on the board of Michael Page International plc Advisory Services.
David is Chairman of Development since May 2007, is their Senior Independent Non-Executive Securities PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Renewable Director, chairs their Audit Committee, and is a member of Energy Systems Holdings Limited.
He was a Governor of their Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Ruby is also Downe House School until completion of his term of a trustee for Business in the Community BitC, a business-led appointment in November 2011. charity focused on promoting responsible business practice Terry Morgan CBE and until recently chaired Race for Opportunity, a part of the Non-Executive Director BitC organisation with a focus on diversity in the workplace.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Last year Ruby was awarded honorary Doctorates by both Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Kingston University and The University of the West of England, Terry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2009. followed in early 2012 with the honour of a Commander of He is Chairman of Crossrail and President of the Chartered the Order of the British Empire for her services to business and Management Institute.
Terry also holds positions as diversity in business.
In March of this year Ruby was Non-Executive Chairman of the Manufacturing Technology announced by the Home Secretary as Chair of the Womens Centre and the National Skills Academy for Railway Business Council, a focused, one-year working group aiming Engineering.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of to ensure action by government, business and others to Boxwood Ltd, and a Trustee of the London Transport Museum.
maximise womens contribution to economic growth.
Terry was previously Chief Executive of Tube Lines Limited and has held positions with BAE Systems, Rover Group plc and Suzanne Baxter Lucas Girling Limited.
Group Finance Director Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of Graeme Potts MITIE Group PLC in April 2006.
Suzanne is a Chartered Non-Executive Director Accountant.
Prior to joining MITIE, she specialised in Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees mergers and acquisitions related transaction support Graeme was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in and held a number of commercial and operational roles July 2006.
Graeme was formerly Chief Executive of Reg with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne holds a seat on the Vardy plc, a divisional Chief Executive Officer and Executive Opportunity Now Advisory Board, a part of the BitC Director of Inchcape plc and Chief Executive of RAC organisation with a focus on gender diversity in the Motoring Services.
He is a Non-Executive Director of BEN, workplace, and during the year was a member of the the automotive industry charity, and is Managing Director Finance and Risk Committee of BitC.
She has recently of Eden GM Limited, a motor retail group.
