88 88 M Mo on ney eyS Su up pe er rm ma ar rk ke et t.. c co om G m Gr ro ou up PL p PLC C Financial StatGe em neen rt asl A An nnual nual Re Repor port t 2 20 01 12 2 Shareholder Information Registered ofce and registered number Enquiring about your shareholding MoneySupermarket House If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, St Davids Park please contact our registrar see contact details on the left.
Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Groups Ewloe shareholder portal at www.
com where you Chester CH5 3UZ can, amongst other things, view details of your shareholding, set up or No.
6160943 amend a dividend mandate and update your address details.
Telephone: 44 0 1244 665700 Investor relations website Website: www.
com The investor relations section of our website, www.
com, provides further information for anyone Company Secretary interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report and share Darren Drabble price, Company announcements including the half year and full year results announcements and associated presentations are also Financial advisors stockbrokers published there.
Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited One Cabot Square Dividend mandates London E14 4QJ If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account, you should contact our registrar see contact details UBS Limited on the left or visit the Groups shareholder portal at 1 Finsbury Avenue www.
com where you can set up or amend London EC2M 2PP a dividend mandate.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account Auditors is credited on the due date.
KPMG Audit Plc St James Square Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase further Manchester M2 6DS shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application form is available from our registrar see contact details on the left.
Solicitors Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Share dealing service Exchange House You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and convenient Primrose Street way via the Capita share dealing service either online London EC2A 2HS www.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.00am-4.30pm Addleshaw Goddard LLP Monday-Friday.
100 Barbirolli Square Manchester M2 3AB Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the Company.
Principal bankers Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are Lloyds Banking Group plc recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial City Ofce advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT Electronic communications Financial PR You can elect to receive shareholder communications electronically by The Maitland Consultancy Limited writing to our registrar, Capita Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, Orion House SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
This 5 Upper St. Martins Lane will save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental London benets.
When you register, you will be sent a notication to say when WC2H 9EA shareholder communications are available on our website and you will be provided with a link to that information.
Registrar Cautionary note regarding forward looking Capita Registrars statements The Registry This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in 34 Beckenham Road nature.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, Beckenham assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the Kent BR3 4TU actual results, performance or achievements of the Group to be materially different from any future results, performance or Telephone: 0871 200 1536 UK achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Except as required by the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Monday-Friday Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Company undertakes no 44 0 20 3008 2245 overseas obligation to update, revise or change any forward looking statements to reect events or developments occurring on or after the date of this E-mail: moneysupermarket@capitaregistrars.
