com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information The Consolidated Financial Statements of MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC Company, a company incorporated in England, and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 4 March 2013.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 82 to 87.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.
Comparative gures presented in the Financial Statements represent the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis, which the Directors deem appropriate, given the Groups positive cash position, lack of debt, and continued growth and forecast profitability.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The most significant areas of estimation uncertainty, and areas where critical judgements are made in applying accounting policies that have a material effect on the Financial Statements, are listed below.
The uncertainties encountered, and judgements made, are described in more detail in the relevant accounting policies and accompanying notes: t Note 3 acquisitions t Note 3 contingent consideration and remuneration t Note 12 goodwill and other intangibles, including their amortisation and impairment t Note 13 revenue recognition t Note 13 provision for doubtful debts t Note 14 accruals t Note 18 share-based payments t Note 21 commitments and contingencies Basis of consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
significant inuence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
Accounting for business combinations From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
com Group PLC 59 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: t the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus t the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus t if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less t the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classied as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Where the contingent consideration is dependent on future employment, it shall be treated as a cost of continuing employment, and therefore is recognised as an expense over the relevant period.
Acquisitions between 22 June 2007 and 1 January 2010 For acquisitions between 22 June 2007 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
The Group was established via a series of transactions that occurred concurrently on 22 June 2007.
These comprised the incorporation of the Company with Simon Nixon as sole shareholder, the acquisition by the Company using a share for share exchange of Simon Nixons 45% interest in MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited and the acquisition by the Company of all other shares in MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited from third parties.
The acquisition of Simon Nixons shares was between two parties, being Simon Nixon and the Company, who were under common control at the time of the transaction.
The acquisition was of an interest in a company which gave the investor a significant inuence in the company and it was concluded that this arrangement was a common control transaction and not within the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
As a result the Company accounted for this 45% interest in MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited at original carrying value rather than fair value at the date of the acquisition.
The acquisition of the remaining shares in MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited was accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations applying the accounting guidance for a business combination achieved in stages.
This resulted in the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited being recognised in full and the goodwill in respect of the acquisition from third parties being recognised.
Foreign currency The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
The functional currency of the foreign subsidiary icero GmbH is the euro.
The income and expenses of the foreign operation are translated into sterling at an average exchange rate for the period in which the activity occurred.
The assets and liabilities of the foreign operation are translated into sterling using exchange rates ruling as at the balance sheet date.
The exchange difference arising upon translation is taken directly to a separate component of equity.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised as a profit or loss.
Revenue The Group generates fees from internet lead generation click based revenue, commissions from brokerage sales and advertising through a variety of contractual arrangements.
The Group recognises click based revenues and associated costs in the period that the lead is generated.
Brokerage commissions are recognised at the point of completion of the transaction with the customer.
Advertising revenue is recognised in the period when an advertisement is delivered to the end user.
Revenue is recognised net of value added tax.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until brought into use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Buildings 50 years Plant and equipment including IT equipment 3 years Fixtures and ttings 5 years Ofce equipment 5 years The useful lives and depreciation rates are reassessed at each reporting date.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the carrying value may be impaired.
Other intangible assets The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All the Groups intangible assets other than goodwill have been identied as having nite useful lives.
As such, they are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a nite useful life is reviewed at least at each financial year end.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with nite lives is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Market-related 10 years Customer relationships 7 years Customer lists 3 years Technology 3 years Market-related intangible assets are dened as those that are primarily used in the marketing or promotion of products and services, for example trademarks, trade names and internet domain names.
Customer-related intangible assets consist of customer lists, customer contracts and relationships, and non-contractual customer relationships.
For accounting purposes, customer relationships and customer lists have been identied separately.
Relationships with high-prole customers provide the Group with prominence in the marketplace, create volume and trafc on the website, and enhance the reputation of the brand.
Customer lists allow the Group to undertake targeted marketing activities.
Technology-based intangible assets relate to innovations and technical advances such as computer software, patented and unpatented technology, databases and trade secrets.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For the purposes of impairment reviews, the recoverable amount of the Groups assets is taken to be the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
com Group PLC 61 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income when incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised when it meets the criteria outlined in IAS 38.
Expenditure that does not meet the criteria is expensed directly to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
mployee benets Dened contribution plans Obligations for contributions to dened contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as incurred.
Share based payment transactions The Groups share schemes allow certain Group employees to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
The fair value of share awards made is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at award date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The fair values of the share awards are measured using the Monte Carlo method for options subject to a market-based condition and the Black-Scholes model for all others, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the number of share awards expected to vest.
Short term employee benets Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as the related service is provided.
A provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Advertising costs The Group incurs costs from advertising via a number of different media.
Costs associated with the production of adverts are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income only once the advert is available to the Group in a format ready for use, having been approved for airing or displaying.
The cost of airing or displaying the advert is taken as an expense in the period in which the advert is aired or displayed.
Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable, which is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as it accrues using the effective interest method.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates in force for the year, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised at the expected future tax rate of the value of the intangible assets with nite lives which are acquired through business combinations representing the tax effect of the amortisation of these assets in future periods.
These liabilities will decrease in line with the amortisation of the related intangible assets, with the deferred tax credit recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in accordance with IAS 12.
Group management of capital The Groups objectives when managing capital are: t to safeguard the entitys ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders: and t to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk.
The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets.
In assessing the level of capital all components of equity are taken into account, i. e. share capital, retained earnings and reserves where applicable, as well as unvested share options and awards.
In line with internal capital management requirements, the Group manages its cash balances by where possible depositing them with a number of financial institutions to reduce credit risk.
The Group had no debt as at 31 December 2012 and is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements: management of capital therefore focuses around its ability to generate cash from its operations.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or sell assets to raise funds.
During the prior year the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to 50,928,800 of its own shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares.
The Group believes it is meeting its objectives for managing capital as funds are available for reinvestment where necessary as well as being in a position to make returns to shareholders where this is felt appropriate.
There were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted during the period The Group has adopted the following amendments and interpretations which have not had a significant impact on the Groups results: t Deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets amendments to IAS 12 Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued during the year ended 31 December 2012 but are not yet effective, and therefore have not yet been adopted by the Group.
These are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups accounts when adopted, except where stated.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 2011 On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements which is a replacement of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special purpose entities.
This is part of a new suite of standards on consolidation and related matters, which will replace the existing accounting for subsidiaries and joint ventures now joint arrangements, and will make limited amendments in relation to associates.
Concurrent with the issuance of IFRS 10, the IASB also issued: t IFRS 11 Joint ventures 2011 : t IFRS 12 Disclosures of involvement with other entities 2011 : t IAS 27 Separate financial statements revised 2011, has been amended for the issuance of IFRS 10 but retains the current guidance for separate financial statements: and t IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures revised 2011, has been amended for conforming changes based on the issuance of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
Each of the standards in the package of five has an effective date for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, with earlier application permitted so long as each of the other standards in the package of five is also early adopted.
com Group PLC 63 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective continued Transition guidance: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 Further to the consolidation standards above, the IASB has issued transitional guidance, effective from 1 January 2013.
The amendments simplify the transition to these new standards and provide additional relief from disclosures.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments 2010 On 28 October 2010, the IASB published a revised version of IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
The revised standard retains the requirements for classication and measurement of financial assets that were published in November 2009 but adds guidance on the classication and measurement of financial liabilities.
As part of its restructuring of IFRS 9, the IASB also copied the guidance on derecognition of financial instruments and related implementation guidance from IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement to IFRS 9.
On 19 November 2011, the IASB issued Mandatory effective date and Transition Disclosures which amended the effective date of IFRS 9 to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 2011 On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, which establishes a single source of guidance for fair value measurement under IFRSs.
IFRS 13 defines fair value, provides guidance on its determination and introduces consistent requirements for disclosures on fair value measurements.
The Standard does not include requirements on when fair value is required: it prescribes how fair value is to be measured if another standard requires it.
IFRS 13 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with early adoption permitted, and applies prospectively from the beginning of the annual period in which the Standard is adopted.
IAS 19 Employee benets 2001 the amendments On 16 June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 Employee benets 2011 the amendments that change the accounting for dened benefit plans and termination benets.
The objective of this limited scope project was to improve the financial reporting of employee benets.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with earlier application permitted.
IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income 2011 On 16 June 2011, the IASB issued Presentation of items of other comprehensive income.
The amendments require the grouping of items of other comprehensive income into: items that might be reclassied to profit or loss in subsequent periods: and items that will not be classied to profit and loss in subsequent periods.
The amendments are applicable for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 with earlier adoption permitted.
IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation 2011 In December 2011, the IASB amended the accounting requirements and disclosures related to offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The amendments to IAS 32 are intended to clarify existing application issues relating to the offsetting rules and therefore reduce the level of diversity in current practice.
The new disclosures are required for annual or interim periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and the clarifying amendments to IAS 32 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Both require retrospective application for comparative periods.
On 17 May 2012, the IASB issued Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2009-2011 cycle, incorporating amendments to five IFRSs.
The amendments must be applied retrospectively and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, with earlier application permitted.
Of the five, three apply to the Group, they are: t IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment Spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment should be classied as property, plant and equipment when they meet the denition of property, plant and equipment in IAS 16: t IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation Income tax relating to distributions to holders of an equity instrument and to transaction costs of an equity transaction should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes: and t IAS 34 Interim financial reporting The total assets and total liabilities for a particular reportable segment would be separately disclosed in interim financial reporting only when the amounts are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and there has been a material change from the amounts disclosed in the last annual financial statements for that reportable segment.
Not yet endorsed in the EU 3.
Acquisitions Financial Services Net Limited On 14 October 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Financial Services Net Limited FSN for 5m, with a further 4m of consideration payable dependent upon the achievement of certain cumulative financial targets over a 3 year period commencing May 2011.
During 2011 the goodwill of 2.2m recognised on the acquisition of FSN was written off in full to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income based on the business performance to date against the above targets, and latest forecasts.
Management assessed the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the performance of FSN, and reduced the amount accrued at 31December 2011 by 2.2m to 0.2m.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Acquisitions continued Financial Services Net Limited continued In 2012 FSN has continued to trade below its forecast performance.
Management performed an impairment review of the remaining intangible assets prior to the year end, based on updated forecasts for the business, and as a result of this review the remaining net book value of the intangible assets of 4.4m was written off to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In addition, management also reviewed the amount of contingent consideration which they expected to become payable, and as a result released a credit of 0.2m to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Local Daily Deals Limited On 31 August 2011 the Group acquired 51% of Local Daily Deals Limited LDD for an initial consideration of 1m, rising to a totalconsideration of up to 11m payable on the third anniversary of the acquisition depending on the achievement of certain financial targets.
The Group has accounted for the acquisition using the anticipated acquisition method, whereby 100% of LDDs results since acquisition have been consolidated into the results of the Group, as a result of the call and put options in place over the noncontrolling interest.
The deferred consideration payable was dependent upon continued employment, and therefore under IFRS was accounted for as contingent remuneration with the forecast amount payable being accrued over the earnout period and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The estimated fair value of the contingent amount payable was assessed as being 1.0m.
As at 31 December 2011 0.1m had been charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
During the period, management reviewed the amount of contingent remuneration that they expected to become payable, based on the performance of the business to date and its latest forecasts.
As a result, a 0.1m credit has been released to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Since the performance of LDD has been behind managements expectations the goodwill balance of 0.6m was also reviewed for impairment during the period and as a result has been written off in full to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
com MSE On 21 September 2012, the Group acquired certain trade and assets from Martin Lewis and his company MoneySavingExpert.
com for an initial consideration of 65.5m.
The initial consideration of 65.5m was settled by a cash payment of 35.0m and 30.5m of equity represented by 22.1 million ordinary shares in the Company.
In addition, a contingent amount of up to 27.0m, payable in part against the achievement of certain non-financial metrics and in part at the discretion of the Company Board, is dependent on the continued employment of Martin Lewis for three years following the acquisition.
000 Consideration: Initial consideration, paid in cash 35,000 Initial consideration, paid in equity shares in Company 30,531 Total consideration 65,531 The MoneySavingExpert.
com website offers free online content for consumers, in areas such as credit cards and loans, shopping, deals and vouchers, utilities, phones, banking and saving, travel and motoring, insurance, mortgages and homes, and income and family, and includes a range of online tools, researched articles in respect of specic products, personal finance guides, weekly newsletter emails, and online forums.
Martin Lewis and the MoneySavingExpert.
com website also provide information on and promote topical consumer issues such as financial education in schools and reclaiming payment protection insurance.
The business is being run separately from the rest of the Group according to an editorial code, to ensure that MoneySavingExpert.
com Group PLC 65 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 3.
Acquisitions continued Effect of acquisition The acquisition had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities: Recognised values on acquisition 000 MSEs net assets at the acquisition date: Other current assets 16 Intangible assets see note 12 12,895 Net identiable assets and liabilities 12,911 Goodwill on acquisition 52,620 Total consideration 65,531 A detailed description of the different intangible assets which were identied within the acquired business, and the methods used to value them, are provided within note 12.
com by the Group is expected to provide a number of benets to both the Group and the acquired business, allowing the enlarged Group to reach a wider audience, and improve the visibility and accessibility of MoneySavingExpert.
The goodwill identied upon the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com represents the benets referred to above, as well as the skills and knowledge within the acquired business workforce.
com have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group with effect from 21 September 2012 and in the three months and 9 days to 31 December 2012, the business contributed revenue prior to consolidation adjustments of 3.9m and a net profit of 2.8m to the consolidated profit for the year.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, Group revenue would have been an estimated 209.1m and profit before tax would have been an estimated 32.0m.
In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on the first day of the accounting period.
As noted above, additional amounts of up to 27.0m may become payable on the third anniversary of the completion date in part upon the achievement of a number of non-financial performance measures specified in the purchase agreement and in part at the discretion of the Company Board, subject to the continued employment of Martin Lewis.
These amounts have been accounted for separate to the business combination as remuneration as they are linked to the continued employment of MartinLewis.
The fair value of the amount that management expects to become payable will be charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income over the earnout period as an employment expense.
The Group has estimated the amount of this element which will become payable by attributing different probabilities to a range of possible outcomes derived from the most recent non-financial forecasts of the business performance.
At the balance sheet date the fair value of the contingent amount was 25.0m, and 2.3m has been charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the period, included within administrative expenses, and 0.2m has been recognised as an expense within net finance costs, being the unwinding of the discount rate applied.
The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of 3.4m 2011: 1.1m during the period relating to legal and advisory fees, which have been included in administrative expenses.
The impact on both basic and diluted earnings per share is a decrease of 0.6p per share.
The Group was previously a significant customer of MoneySavingExpert.
Management considered the settlement of the pre-existing relationship on acquisition, and since the pre-acquisition trade was on an arms length, commercial basis, no settlement adjustments arose.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Segmental information Business segments In applying IFRS 8 Operating segments, the Group has disclosed five reportable segments, being Money, Insurance, Travel, Homeand MoneySavingExpert.
Money, Insurance and Home operate under the brand name MoneySupermarket.
com, and Travel under the brand name TravelSupermarket.
com, however, all four segments are reported separately.
com will be disclosed as a separate operating segment, with revenue generated by FSN and LDD reported within Other.
This disclosure correlates with the information which is presented to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker, the Company Board, which reviews revenue by segment.
The Groups costs, finance income, tax charges and net assets are only reviewed by the ChiefOperating Decision Maker at a consolidated level, with the exception of MoneySavingExpert.
com, and therefore have not been allocated between all segments in the analysis below.
All of the Group revenue of 204.8m 2011: 181.0m reported in 2012, was generated in the UK 2011: 181.0m.
Reportable InterMoneySaving Segments Segmental Money Insurance Travel Home Expert Total Other revenue Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2012 Revenue Segment revenue 57,389 120,368 13,074 11,403 3,931 206,165 735 2,148 204,752 Results Operating expenses 1,147 173,227 profit from operating activities 2,784 31,525 Net finance costs 143 Share of profit of associates using the equity accounting method, net of tax 158 profit before tax 31,540 Income tax charge 6,708 profit for the year 24,832 At 31 December 2012 Assets and liabilities Intangible assets excluding goodwill 89,988 Goodwill 107,585 Other unallocated assets 53,003 Total assets 250,576 Deferred tax liability 13,432 Other unallocated liabilities 37,409 Total liabilities 50,841 Other segment information Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment 3,170 Intangible assets 69,032 Total capital expenditure 72,202 Depreciation 3,581 Amortisation 26,148 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 5,945 MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 67 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 4.
Segmental information continued Reportable InterMoneySaving Segments Segmental Money Insurance Travel Home Expert Total Other revenue Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2011 Revenue Segment revenue 53,435 104,394 13,319 9,181 180,329 719 181,048 Results Operating expenses 157,005 profit from operating activities 24,043 Net finance income 239 profit before tax 24,282 Income tax charge 7,494 profit for the year 16,788 At 31 December 2011 Assets and liabilities Intangible assets excluding goodwill 105,054 Goodwill 55,580 Other unallocated assets 64,827 Total assets 225,461 Deferred tax liability 23,251 Other unallocated liabilities 35,648 Total liabilities 58,899 Other segment information Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment 4,054 Intangible assets 4,515 Total capital expenditure 8,569 Depreciation 3,819 Amortisation 24,202 Impairment of goodwill 2,199 5.
Results from operating activities 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging crediting Depreciation 3,581 3,819 Amortisation of intangible assets 26,148 24,202 Impairment of goodwill 5,945 2,199 Net VAT recovery 10,622 Auditors remuneration: Audit of these Financial Statements 90 85 Audit of subsidiaries Financial Statements 80 68 Review of interim Financial Statements 28 27 Taxation compliance services 33 33 Taxation advisory services 160 35 Services relating to corporate finance 485 88 Other services 113 410 The Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Amendment Regulations 2011 is mandatory for periods starting on or after 1 October 2011.
The comparatives in respect of the disclosures of Auditor Remuneration have been restated accordingly.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Staff numbers and cost The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of Number of employees employees 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 IT operations 142 146 Administration 333 284 475 430 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Wages and salaries 23,160 20,885 Compulsory social security contributions 2,579 2,426 Contributions to dened contribution plans 552 507 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1,979 2,200 Social security contributions related to share awards and options 1,861 865 30,131 26,883 In addition to the above, 2,325,000 2011: nil has been charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income during the period in relation to the contingent remuneration expected to become payable in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com, and 96,000 has been credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 2011: 96,000 charge in relation to the contingent remuneration expected to become payable in relation to the acquisition of Local Daily Deals Limited see note 3.
Net finance costs 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Finance income Interest received on bank deposits 197 239 Finance expense Interest payable on loan facility 146 Unwind of discount on contingent remuneration 194 340 Net finance costs income 143 239 8.
Income tax Income tax charged in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Current tax Current tax on income for the year 15,458 13,938 Adjustment in relation to prior period 80 2,040 15,538 15,978 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7,282 6,414 Deferred tax on unapproved equity-settled share awards 391 Adjustments due to change in corporation tax rate 1,505 1,999 Adjustment in relation to prior period 43 320 8,830 8,484 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6,708 7,494 MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 69 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 8.
Income tax continued Reconciliation of the effective tax rate The tax charge for the year is lower 2011: higher than the effective standard rate of corporation tax in the UK in 2012 of 24.5% 2011: 26.5%.
The differences are explained below.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 profit for the year 31,540 24,282 Standard rate of tax at 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 7,727 6,435 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 205 405 Deferred tax not recognised 229 65 Movement on deferred tax assets related to share-based payments 47 192 Impact on deferred tax of reduction in corporation tax rate to 23% 2011: 25% 1,537 1,963 Adjustment in relation to prior period 37 2,360 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6,708 7,494 From 1 April 2012, the corporation tax rate changed from 26% to 24% resulting in a blended corporation tax rate for the year of 24.5%.
From 1 April 2013, the corporation tax rate will further reduce to 23%.
Furthermore, on 5 December 2012, it was announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 21% by 2014.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share has been calculated on the following basis: 2012 2011 profit after taxation attributable to ordinary equity holders 000 24,832 16,788 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue millions 519.4 509.3 Dilutive effect of share-based instruments millions 8.4 11.9 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue millions 527.8 521.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share p 4.8 3.3 Diluted earnings per ordinary share p 4.7 3.2 70 MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Dividends 2012 2011 000 000 Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2010: 2.53p per share 12,884 Interim dividend for 2011: 1.5p per share 7,654 Special dividend for 2011: 3.93p per share 20,000 Final dividend for 2011: 3.03p per share 15,431 Interim dividend for 2012: 1.8p per share 9,273 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December : Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2012: 3.94p per share 21,169 11.
com Group PLC 71 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 12.
During 2007 the Group employed the services of an appropriately qualied and experienced independent third party to value the intangible assets acquired from MoneySupermarket.
This valuation was used as the initial carrying value for these assets.
Following the impairment in 2008, the market capitalisation of the Group approximated to the total carrying value of the goodwill, intangible and other non-current assets of the Group.
At 31 December 2012 the market capitalisation exceeded the carrying value of the goodwill, intangible and other non-current assets, and net current assets by more than 100% 2011: more than 100%.
On adoption of IFRS 8 the Group was required to allocate goodwill between its cash generating units CGU that represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, but are not larger than an operating segment as dened by IFRS 8.
These CGUs are the five operating segments Insurance, Money, Travel, Home Services and MoneySavingExpert.
In addition, the recently acquired businesses, Financial Services Net Limited FSN and Local Daily Deals Limited LDD, are separate CGUs for the purposes of monitoring goodwill.
The Group has performed impairment testing at a CGU level.
For the original four segments, the goodwill was allocated on 1 January 2009 based on estimates of the relative values of the operating segments at that date with 30.7m allocated to Insurance, 15.5m to Money, 6.6m to Travel and 2.2m to Home Services.
The balances at 31 December 2012 are in line with those at 1 January 2009.
Goodwill impairment for FSN, LDD and MSE has been considered separately from the four operating segments outlined above and the Group.
mpairment reYiew by Yertical and Group For the current year, the recoverable amount of the assets was taken to be their value in use and was calculated by reference to the forecast cash ows.
The present value of the future cash ows has been calculated with the following key assumptions: t Cash ows for year 1 for each CGU represent managements best estimate of future cash ows as at 31 December 2012, and are based upon the Groups approved budget for 2013 incorporating where possible an allocation of cost of sales, advertising and overheads costs.
The main assumptions underlying the 2013 budget relate to visitor numbers, source of visitors, revenue per transaction visitor and marketing spend, which incorporate past experience.
The forecast assumes continued improvement during the course of 2013 driven by new media campaigns, utilisation of the Groups data asset and investments made during 2012 in the core technology for the Groups key channels.
All segments have been assumed to have similar rates of growth.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Intangible assets continued t Cash ows for the first 3 years assume an average 10% per annum increase in revenue, with all costs expected to grow at 10% per annum.
Cash ows after 3 years assume no growth.
t Cash ows into perpetuity have been incorporated into the calculations.
t A pre-tax discount rate of 13.5% 2011: 13.5% has been used in the forecast for the Travel, Insurance, Money and Home Services segments.
When there are clear indications that the economy has emerged from recession a different set of assumptions may be more appropriate.
The analysis performed calculates that the recoverable amount of the assets allocated to the Insurance, Money, Travel and Home Services segments exceeds their carrying value by in excess of 100%, and as such, no impairment was identied.
No reasonably possible change to a key assumption would result in an impairment.
As explained in note 4, whilst the Group is able to allocate revenue between the Insurance, Money, Travel and Home Services operating segments, its cost base is reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker at a Group rather than segmental level, and a number of the significant costs which the Group incurs cannot be allocated either directly or on a reasonable and consistent basis to the CGUs that are each operating segment.
Therefore the cash ows estimated for these segments include all of the Groups forecast revenues and an allocation of the Groups forecast costs.
The Group has therefore also performed a further impairment test for the Group as a whole, in a manner consistent with previous years.
In these calculations the Group is treated as one group of CGUs, and the test compared the carrying amount, including goodwill and other corporate assets, to the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount has been estimated based on the present value of its future cash ows which has been calculated with a set of assumptions consistent with those set out above in relation to the individual operating segment calculations.
The analysis performed calculates that the recoverable amount of the Groups assets exceeds their carrying value by 469m 2011: 264m, and as such, no impairment was identied.
With regard to the Group level impairment testing, the level of the increase in the discount rate, with all the other assumptions held constant, required to give a value in use for the Groups assets equal to their carrying value, would be in excess of what can reasonably be expected to happen 2011: outside of reasonable range.
Similarly, a decrease in the annual cash ows of 59.0m 2011: 35.0m with all other assumptions held constant, would also give a value in use for the Groups assets equal to their carrying value.
At an asset category level, management believe that the assumptions relating to each intangible asset remain applicable, and that no adjustment is required to their valuation, nor their useful economic lives.
Acquisition of inancial SerYices 1et Limited S1 The fair value of the intangible assets recognised upon the acquisition of FSN was calculated as set out below: Market related Within FSN, the main market related intangible assets are the domain names which FSN owns.
These assets were valued using an income-based approach, namely, the royalty savings method, which estimates the royalty which the Group would have to pay a third party to use the domain names if it did not own them, typically as a percentage of the revenue earned from the domain names during their useful economic life of 10 years.
The Group estimated revenue based on the most recent 3 year forecasts, and for later periods assumed inationary increases of 5%.
A royalty rate of 15% was applied based on available industry data.
A discount rate of 15.8% was used to calculate the present value of the future royalty savings.
Customer relationships This asset represented the value present within the existing relationships which FSN had with product providers and brokers.
The valuation was based on the cash ows which were expected to result from these relationships during the 7 year useful economic life of the asset, adjusted for estimated future attrition of the providers and relationships following the date of acquisition.
Again, the Group based the estimate on the most recent 3 year forecasts, and for later periods assumed inationary increases of 5%, with an assumed attrition rate of the provider relationships of 50% per annum, based on managements expectations.
A discount rate of 15.8% was used to calculate the present value of the future benefit resulting from the relationships.
com Group PLC 73 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 12.
Intangible assets continued Customer lists This asset represented the value of the customer data held by FSN at the date of acquisition, and was valued based on the cost of recreating such a database in the open market, using in-house estimates of the cost of each data element.
The goodwill balance recognised upon the acquisition of FSN represented the anticipated incremental value which the Group expected to generate by applying the existing skills and expertise within the Groups workforce to the acquired business and assets.
During 2011 the goodwill of 2.2m recognised on the acquisition of FSN was written off in full to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income based on the business performance against the targets set, and latest forecasts.
Management also assessed the fair value of the contingent consideration and reduced the amount accrued at 31 December 2011 by 2.2m to 0.2m.
In 2012 FSN has continued to trade below management expectations.
As a result of this management reviewed the remaining intangible assets for impairment.
The recoverable amount of the assets was taken to be their value in use, and was calculated by reference to FSNs forecast cash ows.
For the purposes of IAS 36, FSN is taken to be one CGU.
The present value of the forecast cash ows was calculated with the following key assumptions: t Cash ows for year 1 represent managements best estimate of future cash ows as at 31 December 2012, and are based upon the Groups approved budget for 2013.
The main assumptions underlying the budget relate to visitor numbers, the amount of revenue generated per visitor, and the staff resource required to run the business.
The forecast assumes a level of performance consistent with that in 2012. t Cash ows into perpetuity assume no growth in the number of visitors, and no increase in the revenue generated per visitor, with all costs expected to remain at.
t Cash ows into perpetuity have been built into the model.
t A pre-tax discount rate of 16.5% 2011: 16.5% has been used in the forecast.
The analysis performed calculates the value in use of FSN being lower than the carrying value of the business identied intangible assets.
Therefore, an impairment charge of 4.4m has been recognised in the year within administrative expenses, as well as a credit of 0.2m in relation to the release of the accrued contingent consideration.
As a result, there is no difference between the carrying value and the recoverable amount of the business intangible assets as at the balance sheet date.
Acquisition of Local Daily Deals Limited LDD The Group recognises its intangible assets in the following asset classes.
No intangible assets were recognised upon the acquisition of LDD for the following reasons: Market related At acquisition the main market related intangible asset was the domain name which LDD owned.
Assets such as this are typically valued using an income-based approach, based on estimated revenue in the companys most recent forecasts, and the savings which the Group or an equivalent third party would expect to make by now owning the domain name.
Prior to acquisition the companys website attracted low volumes of visitors, and since acquisition the website has been relocated within the Groups main website.
In light of this, the Group did not assign any value to the domain name or any other market related intangible assets.
Customer relationships This asset class represents the value within the existing relationships which LDD has with its business partners.
Given the nature of LDDs business and the short life-time of the relationships, the Group did not identify any value within this asset.
Customer lists This asset class represents the value of the customer data held by LDD at the date of acquisition.
The volume of customer data held by the business has been assessed by management as immaterial.
As such no value was identied within this asset.
Technology This asset class relates to technical innovations and advances such as databases, software and trade secrets.
Whilst the business did own the website on which its business operates, the cost of replicating such a website has been estimated by management as immaterial to the Groups operations.
Intangible assets continued The goodwill balance recognised upon the acquisition of LDD represented the anticipated incremental value which the Group expected to generate by applying its existing customer database and expertise to the LDD business.
The Group does not expect any of the goodwill to be deductible for tax purposes.
In 2012, LDD has traded below its forecast performance, and as a result management reviewed the goodwill balance for impairment during the period.
The recoverable amount of the assets was taken to be their value in use, and was calculated by reference to LDDs forecast cash ows.
For the purposes of IAS 36, LDD is taken to be one CGU.
The forecast assumes a performance consistent with 2012. t Cash ows into perpetuity assume no growth in the revenue generated, with all costs expected to remain at.
t A pre-tax discount rate of 16.5% has been used in the forecast.
The analysis performed calculates the value in use of LDD being lower than the carrying value of goodwill created on the acquisition of LDD.
Therefore an impairment charge of 0.6m has been recognised in the year in administrative expenses.
As a result, there is no difference between the carrying value and the recoverable amount of the goodwill as at the balance sheet date.
Acquisition of certain trade and assets of Martin Lewis and MoneySaYingE[pert.
com The fair value of the intangible assets recognised upon the acquisition of trade and certain assets from Martin Lewis and MoneySavingExpert.
com MSE were calculated as set out below: Market related Within MSE, the main market related intangible assets are the MSE tradename, MSE domain name and Martin Lewis image and reputation.
These assets were valued using an income-based approach, namely, the royalty savings method, where it is assumed that a company, without similar assets, would license the right to use these assets and pay a royalty related to turnover achieved over their useful economic life of 10 years.
A royalty rate of 20% has been applied for the first three years after acquisition, which will include the use of Martin Lewis name and image, and a 10% royalty rate has been used for the following seven years when Martin Lewiss name and image will not be included.
Customer lists This asset represents the value of the customer data held by MSE at the date of acquisition, and its valuation has been performed with reference to the cost of buying an equivalent book of customer data on the open market.
This was done through analysis of recent sales of comparable assets.
Non-compete agreement To value the non-compete agreement management considered what percentage of the business could be lost if Martin Lewis was to leave the acquired business and subsequently compete against the Group.
The non-compete agreement is valid for a period of four years following acquisition.
However, as the contingent remuneration which may become payable to Martin Lewis is dependent upon his continued employment by the business for three years following the acquisition, the non-compete agreement has been valued for the twelve months following the three year earnout period.
com Group PLC 75 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 12.
Intangible assets continued Tax amortisation benefit Included in the market related intangible and non-compete agreement is an additional increment of value, the tax amortisation benefit.
The goodwill balance recognised upon the acquisition represents the anticipated incremental value which the Group expects to generate by applying the existing skills and expertise within the Groups workforce to the acquired business and assets, as well as the skills and expertise of the acquired workforce and Martin Lewis.
The recoverable amount has been estimated based on the present value of its future cashows using the following key assumptions: t Cash ows for year 1 represent managements best estimate of future cash ows as at 31 December 2012, and are based upon the Groups approved budget for 2013.
The forecast assumes an improvement over 2013, driven by investments in technology and search engine optimisation.
t Cash ows for the first three years assume an average 10% per annum increase in the revenue generated, whilst payroll costs have been forecast to increase by 5% per annum, with all other costs expected to grow at 5% per annum.
Cash ows after three years assume no growth.
t A pre-tax discount rate of 16.2% has been used in the forecast.
The analysis performed calculates that the recoverable amount of the assets exceed their carrying value by in excess of 21%, and as such, no impairment was identied.
The discount rate would need to increase to 19% with all other assumptions held constant, to give a value in use of MSEs assets equal to the carrying value.
Similarly, a decrease in the annual cash ows of 2.5m with all other assumptions held constant, would also give a value in use equal to the carrying value.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Trade receivables 20,768 15,974 All receivables fall due within one year.
As a result of click based revenue being recognised in the period that the lead is generated, a revenue accrual for approximately one months revenue is recognised at the year end date.
At 31 December 2012, trade receivables are shown net of a provision for doubtful debts of 72,000 2011: 53,000, which represents a judgement made by management of which receivable balances are unlikely to be recovered taking into consideration the ageing of the debt, evidence of poor payment history or financial position of a particular debtor.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 At 1 January 53 85 Charge for the year 23 62 Amounts written off 4 94 At 31 December 72 53 As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Neither past Past due not impaired due nor Total impaired 0-30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days 120 days 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 31 December 2011 15,974 15,008 957 61 4 8 48 At 31 December 2012 20,768 18,323 1,604 796 61 28 44 The Groups standard payment terms are 15 days.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Trade and other payables Non-current 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Contingent remuneration in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com 2,521 2,521 Current 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Trade payables 17,208 16,210 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 10,050 12,165 Deferred income 33 42 Contingent consideration in relation to the acquisition of Financial Services Net Limited 385 Contingent remuneration in relation to the acquisition of Local Daily Deals Limited 96 27,291 28,898 As a result of click based revenue being recognised in the period that the lead is generated, an accrual for the cost of sales relating to the revenue accrued at the year end date see note 13 is included within trade payables.
As at 31 December, the analysis of financial liabilities within trade payables, non-trade payables and accrued expenses is as follows: Total Current 0-30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days 120 days 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 31 December 2011 28,375 19,166 5,225 1,476 180 99 2,229 At 31 December 2012 27,258 21,881 2,933 208 62 22 2,276 As at 31 December 2012, the Group did not hold any other financial liabilities requiring disclosure under IAS 32.
Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 2012 2011 000 000 Intangible assets recognised under IFRS 16,896 25,403 Share schemes 2,262 1,454 Goodwill related to MoneySavingExpert.
com 203 Accelerated capital allowances 999 698 Deferred tax liability at 31 December 13,432 23,251 The following table illustrates the movement in the deferred tax liability during the year: 2012 2011 000 000 At 1 January 23,251 32,212 Temporary differences 6,173 6,421 Revaluation of LTIP equity-settled share awards 682 827 Reversal of deferred tax liability recognised on the acquisition of Financial Services Net Limited 1,289 Issue of LTIP equity-settled share awards 127 34 Reduction in corporation tax rate to 23% 2011: 25% 1,505 1,999 Adjustment in relation to prior period 43 320 At 31 December 13,432 23,251 Deferred tax liabilities arise from the creation of the intangible assets upon the acquisition of MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited by the Company, and the acquisition of Financial Services Net Limited by MoneySupermarket.
Deferred tax assets arise on share option schemes based on the expected tax deduction on vesting and the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated at the tax rate enacted at the balance sheet date of23%.
com Group PLC 77 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 16.
Capital The following rights attached to the shares in issue during the year: Ordinary shares The holders of ordinary shares were entitled to returns of capital, receive a dividend and vote.
Issued and fully paid Ordinary Number of shares shares At 1 January 2011 and 1 January 2012 509,288,007 Issued on exercising of LTIP share awards 5,872,192 Issued on exercising of SAYE options 4,296 Issued on acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com 22,123,894 At 31 December 2012 537,288,389 Ordinary shares At 1 January 2011 and 1 January 2012 101,857 Issued on exercising of LTIP share awards 1,174 Issued on exercising of SAYE options 1 Issued on acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com 4,425 At 31 December 2012 107,457 The Group has a Long Term Incentive Plan under which conditional nil cost awards of ordinary shares in the Company have been made to certain Directors and employees of the Group see note 18.
Financial instruments Interest rate risk The Group invests its cash in a range of cash deposit accounts with UK banks.
Interest earned therefore closely follows movements in Bank of England base rates.
A movement of 1% in this rate would result in a difference in annual pre-tax profit of 187,000 based on Group cash, cash equivalents and financial instruments at 31 December 2012.
At the balance sheet date, 18,314,000 was invested with Lloyds Banking Group, this being the most invested with any one bank.
Effective interest rates In respect of interest-earning financial assets, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the year end date: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Effective Effective interest rate 000 interest rate 000 Cash and cash equivalents 0.66% 18,680 0.68% 35,005 Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit worthy counterparties as a means of mitigating risk of financial loss from default.
The Groups exposure is continuously monitored by the credit control team and finance management.
By value, over 90% 2011: 90% of the Groups revenue comes from blue chip companies.
At the balance sheet date, the five largest trade receivables, by provider, accounted for 14% 2011: 22% of the total trade receivables balance of 20,768,000 2011: 15,974,000 and the largest individual balance was 855,442 2011: 1,080,637.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Financial instruments continued Fair values The Groups financial assets and liabilities are principally short-term in nature, and therefore their fair value is not materially different from their carrying value.
The valuation method for the Groups financial assets and liabilities can be dened as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The financial liabilities arising on acquisitions held at 31 December 2012 are valued using a level 3 valuation method, being their fair value with any change in fair value taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other financial assets and liabilities are valued at amortised cost.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows.
Details of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risks, are set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Unsecured bank loan facilities with a maturity date of 31 May 2015 - amount used - amount unused 20,000 During the year, 13 million was drawn down against the bank loan facility and was subsequently repaid before the year end.
Share-based payments Share, ncentiYe Plan scheme S, P Upon listing, the Company granted 3,000 of ordinary shares at the price of 1.70 per ordinary share to each eligible employee free of charge.
If an employee left within one year of listing, all of these ordinary shares were forfeit: between one and two years of listing, 50% were forfeit: between two and three years of listing, 20% were forfeit: and after three years of listing, none were forfeit.
948,184 shares were issued under the Share Incentive Plan scheme in 2007.
On 31 July 2010 eligible employees became entitled to receive their allocation of free shares.
93,886 2011: 54,365 shares have been withdrawn from the trust by employees during the period and a further 388,199 remain held in trust 2011: 482,085.
Long 7erm, ncentiYe Plan scheme L7, P On 8 April 2009, conditional awards were made over 8,256,530 ordinary shares under the MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan scheme to senior employees 2009 LTIPs.
Under this scheme, up to 70% of the shares were to vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon the achievement of an adjusted EBITDA gure for each of the three financial years from 2009 to 2011, and up to 30% of the shares were to vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon the total shareholder return TSR of the Company relative to a comparator group of dened companies.
These awards were therefore subject to market-based performance conditions.
On 11 June 2012 94.38% of the awards vested following partial achievement of the performance criteria.
1 On 7 April 2010, conditional awards were made over 6,473,309 ordinary shares under the MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan scheme to senior employees 2010 LTIPs.
Under this scheme, up to 70% of the shares vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon the absolute total shareholder return of the Company against a target set at the start of the period, and up to 30% of the shares were to vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon the total shareholder return of the Company relative to a comparator group of dened companies.
com Group PLC 79 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 18.
Share-based payments continued Long 7erm, ncentiYe Plan scheme L7, P continued 1 During the prior year, conditional awards were made over 3,945,803 ordinary shares under the MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan scheme to senior employees 2011 LTIPs.
Under this scheme, up to 50% of the shares were to vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon the absolute total shareholder return of the Company against a target set at the start of the period, and up to 50% of the shares vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon the total shareholder return of the Company relative to a comparator group of dened companies.
These awards are therefore subject to market-based performance conditions.
1 During the year, conditional awards were made over 3,148,724 ordinary shares under the MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan scheme to senior employees 2012 LTIPs.
Under this scheme, up to 70% of the award vests at the end of a three year period dependent upon the achievement of a specified average growth rate in Adjusted EBITDA from 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2014, and up to 30% of the award vests at the end of a three year period dependent upon the total shareholder return TSR of the Company relative to a comparator group of dened companies.
1 The gures for the awards made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are the maximum available if the performance targets are met in full, representing 150% of the actual awards made.
SharesaYe scheme During 2011, the Group established an HMRC-approved savings scheme available to all employees.
The scheme allows employees to save an amount of their net pay into a savings account each month, and at the end of the three year period, choose to either receive back their savings or use them to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a discounted exercise price.
The exercise price for the 2011 Sharesave scheme was xed at 89.6p per share.
During 2012, the Group established a further HMRC-approved scheme available to all employees, on the same basis as the scheme established in 2011.
The exercise price for the 2012 Sharesave scheme was xed at 107.6p per share.
MoYements in the year The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of, and movements in, share options during the year.
The number of options in the table represents the maximum number which may vest: Number WAEP Outstanding at 1 January 2011 10,978,314 0.00 LTIP awards made during the year 2,630,535 0.00 LTIP awards forfeit during the year 1,038,400 0.00 LTIP awards lapsed during the year 649,601 0.00 Outstanding at 31 December 2011 11,920,848 0.00 LTIP awards made during the year 2,099,149 0.00 LTIP awards vested and exercised during the year 5,872,192 0.00 LTIP awards forfeit during the year 741,887 0.00 LTIP awards lapsed during the year 339,328 0.00 Outstanding at 31 December 2012 7,066,590 0.00 The following table lists the inputs to the Black-Scholes models and Monte Carlo simulations used for the schemes for the year ended 31 December 2012: 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 Sharesave Sharesave LTIP LTIP LTIP Fair value at grant date 0.39 0.37 1.32 0.83 0.49 Share price 1.38 1.10 1.31 0.90 0.75 Exercise price 1.08 0.90 0.0 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility % 33.0 50.0 33.6 50.0 53.2 Expected life of option award years 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.7 1.7 2.5 1.3 0.3 Expected dividend yield % 3.5 4.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Risk-free interest rate % 2.64 1.9 2.64 1.9 2.0 Expected volatility has been estimated by considering historic average share price volatility for the Company or similar companies.
Staff attrition has been assessed based on historic retention rates.
com Group PLC Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Share-based payments continued The share option charge in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income can be attributed to the following types of share option and share award: 2012 2011 000 000 Long Term Incentive Plan scheme 1,906 2,185 Sharesave scheme 73 15 1,979 2,200 19.
Operating lease commitments The future minimum lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of land and buildings are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Operating lease commitment payments: Within one year 738 135 Between two and five years 2,471 70 Over five years 2,972 6,181 205 20.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group operates a dened contribution pension scheme based on basic salary.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
The amounts charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income represent the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
In the year ended 31 December 2012 552,244 of contributions were charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2011: 506,890.
As at 31 December 2012 93,989 2011: 62,338 of contributions were outstanding on the balance sheet.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is a defendant in a small number of disputes incidental to its operations which, in aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Provision has been made for the expected settlement where the Group believes a payment will be made to settle the dispute.
At the end of 2011, the Group was in the process of nalising a new VAT recovery method with HM Revenue & Customs.
During 2012 formal approval of the new method was received.
As a result of this the Group recognised a net credit of 10.6m relating to the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 December 2012.
Related party transactions The Group has the following investments in subsidiaries and associates: Country of Ownership Principal incorporation interest % activity MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited UK 100 Holding company MoneySupermarket.
com Limited UK 100 Internet price comparison MoneySupermarket.
com Financial Group Holdings Limited UK 100 Holding company MoneySavingExpert.
com Limited UK 100 Personal finance website TravelSupermarket.
com Limited UK 100 Dormant InsureSupermarket.
com Limited UK 100 Dormant Mortgage 2000 Limited UK 100 Financial intermediary services Making Millionaires Limited UK 100 Holding company MoneySupermarket Limited UK 100 Dormant icero GmbH Germany 100 Dormant Betcompare.
com Limited UK 100 Dormant Financial Services Net Limited UK 100 Financial intermediary services Local Daily Deals Limited UK 51 Discounted deals website HD Decisions Limited UK 25 Credit scoring technology The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
Intercompany transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries have been excluded from this note, as per the exemption offered in IAS 24.
com Group PLC 81 Financial Statements Annual Report 2012 22.
Related party transactions continued The aggregate value of transactions and outstanding balances relating to entities which were not wholly-owned subsidiaries at the balance sheet date were as follows: Transaction Transaction Balance Balance value value outstanding outstanding Year ended Year ended as at as at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 Company 000 000 000 000 Local Daily Deals Limited 850 99 949 99 HD Decisions Limited 1,110 794 90 0 Transactions with key management personnel In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benets to Directors and executive ofcers.
Directors and executive ofcers also participate in the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan scheme, see note 18.
Gerald Corbett, Michael Wemms, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Simon Nixon, Peter Plumb, Graham Donoghue and Paul Doughty received dividends from the Group totalling 21,440,050 in 2011 and 12,996,673 in 2012.
During the prior year, short-term funding was made to Paul Doughty, a Director of the Company.
The amount advanced was 800,000 for a period of 5 days.
Fixed interest of 7% per annum was charged along with an arrangement fee of 1% of the value of the advance.
There were no amounts outstanding to the Company or any future commitments of the Company as at 31 December 2012 2011: nil.
Key management personnel compensation Key management, dened as the executive management team, received the following compensation during the year: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 000 000 Short-term employee benets 1,544 1,843 Share-based payments 1,445 1,581 Post employment benets 141 162 3,130 3,586 In addition to the above, the executive management team received a bonus of 2,061,000 2011: 1,815,000 in relation to the reporting period.
Interest in associates The Groups share of post-acquisition total recognised profit in HD Decisions Limited HD for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 158,000 2011: nil.
HDs reporting date is 31 October.
Summary aggregated financial information on associates 100 per cent : 2012 2011 000 000 Assets 1,449 1,057 Liabilities 94 548 profit 631 24.
Post balance sheet events There have been no significant post balance sheet events requiring disclosure.
