Overview Business review Governance Financial statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys with applicable law and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and detect fraud and other irregularities.
have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
profit or loss for that period.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: By order of the Board Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Paul Boulton For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Company Secretary & General Counsel prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
14 February 2013 For the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 49
