Other information 168 Glossary and definitions Business, financial and accounting ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code published by of the Group incorporated in Chile and operating the Governance theFinancial Reporting Council in May 2010 and Water concession in Chiles Antofagasta Region Code applicable to listed companies for reporting years acquired from ECONSSA.
beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The code replaced the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance ADR American Depositary Receipt.
and was first applied by the Group for theyear ended AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary Desalant Desalant S. A. former owner of a desalination plant of the Group incorporated in Chile which acts as the located in Antofagasta and acquired by the Group corporate centre for the mining division.
Annual report The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Directors The Directors of the Company.
Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, incorporated in Canada which Antomin Antomin Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the has a 60% non-controlling interest in the Groups Group incorporated in Jersey a 51%-owned subsidiary subsidiary Twin Metals.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation Antucoya Copper project located approximately 45 km east andAmortisation.
The project is 70% owned by the Group.
ECONSSA Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a30%-owned the Chilean state-owned company which previously associate of the Group incorporated in Chile and operated the regulated and non-regulated water operating the port in the city of Antofagasta.
distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Region Australian Australian currency.
dollars El Tesoro Minera El Tesoro, a 70%-owned subsidiary of theGroup Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
incorporated inChile a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner Group until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni ofthe Group in Tethyan.
Board The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 40% joint venture responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
partner of the Group in Energa Andina S. A. Capex Capital expenditure s. Encuentro The Caracoles project in the Centinela Mining District was renamed to Encuentro during 2012.
Caracoles Compaa Contractual Minera Caracoles, a whollyowned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Energa Energa Andina S. A. a 60%-owned joint venture entity This project is now known as Encuentro.
Andina S. A. of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Cash costs A measure of the cost of operational production EPS Earnings per share.
expressed in terms ofcents per pound of payable Equatorial Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary copper produced.
Cash costs are stated net of ofthe Group incorporated in Australia.
by-product credits and include tolling charges for Esperanza Minera Esperanza, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the concentrates forLos Pelambres and Esperanza.
Cashcosts exclude depreciation, financial income and Esperanza Sur Copper prospect located in the Centinela Mining District expenses, hedging gains and losses, exchange gains held through Esperanza.
and losses and corporation tax.
ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name Centinela Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region of ofECONSSA.
Mining District Chile, where ElTesoro and Esperanza are located.
Formerly known as the SierraGorda district.
CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate FCA Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned ofQuienco.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Bolivia.
FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean namefor the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, Chilean peso Chilean currency.
awholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated 2008 Combined The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance inthe United Kingdom and operating a rail network Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June inChiles Antofagasta Region.
2008 which was applicable to listed companies for FSA Financial Services Authority.
reporting years beginning on or after 29June 2008.
TheCombined Code was replaced with the 2010 UK FTSE 100 Index A  weighted index representing Corporate Governance Code.
theperformance ofthe 100 largest UK-domiciled blue chip companies.
Compaa Compaa Minera Milpo S. A.
A. of Peru is a former Minera Milpo owner of a 18.5% interest in Caracoles, acquired by FTSE All-Share A  weighted index representing theGroup in February 2009.
Index theperformance ofall eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Companies Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
Act 2006 GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 169 Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate with Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary companies.
Hedge Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument Reko Diq Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district accounting permitted under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: in south-west Pakistan.
The Groups interest is held Recognition and Measurement, whichrecognises the through Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 offsetting effects on profit orlossof changes in the fair joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation of Canada.
values of a hedging instrument and the hedged item.
Ro Figueroa Ro Figueroa, an exploration project located in Chiles IAS International Accounting Standards.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, Committee.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Telgrafo The former name of the Esperanza Sur copper prospect Inversiones Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate held through Esperanza and located in the Centinela Hornitos ofthe Group incorporated in Chile which owns the Mining District.
150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
jointventure entity of the Group incorporated IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added inAustralia.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Key Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, Companys share price plus reinvested dividends.
Management directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Turnbull Guidance The revised guidance on internal control for directors on Personnel Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group in KPI Key performance indicator.
LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
Twin Metals Twin Metals Minnesota LLC, a 40%-owned subsidiary LME London Metal Exchange.
of the Group incorporated in the UnitedStates.
Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary UK United Kingdom.
2010 UK The UK Corporate Code published by the Financial LSE London Stock Exchange.
Corporate Reporting Council in May 2010 and applicable to LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
Governance listedcompanies for reporting years beginning on Code orafter 29June 2010.
The code replaced the 2008 Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
partner in El Tesoro, Esperanza and Antucoya.
Metallica Minera Metallica Resources Chile Limitada, asubsidiary Resources Chile of New Gold Inc. formerly Metallica Resources Inc., US dollars United States currency.
Limitada acompany with exploration interests in the Ro Figueroa Project.
Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary oftheGroup incorporated in Chile.
Mirador Copper oxide deposit which forms part of the ElTesoro operation.
Mulpun Coal gasification project located near Valdivia insouthern Chile.
Provisional A sales term in several copper and molybdenum pricing concentrate sale agreements and cathodes sale agreements which provides for provisional pricing ofsales at the time of shipment, with final pricing beingbased on the monthly average LME copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specific future periods, normally ranging from 30 to180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes ofIAS 39, the provisional sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative i. e. the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted which is separated from the host contract i. e. the sale of metals contained in the concentrate orcathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family andlisted on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
Other information 170 Glossary and definitions Mining industry Brownfield A development or exploration project in the vicinity Oxide and Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Sulphide ores occurs on the weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results in the production of cathode copper By-products Products obtained as result of copper processing.
Sulphide ore comes credits Los Pelambres andEsperanza receive credit for the from an unweathered parent ores process and normally in copper gold and silver content inthecopper concentrate sold.
results in the production of concentrate through a concentrates Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum concentrate.
flotation process which then requires smelting and Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such refining to produce cathodecopper.
as flotation orgravity concentration, which involves Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained copper separating ore minerals from unwanted wasted rock.
forwhich payment isreceived after metallurgical Concentrates require subsequent processing such deduction.
assmelting or leaching to break down or dissolve theore minerals and obtain the desired elements, Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated usually metals.
chalcopyrite and other sulphide minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, generally in Contained The proportion or quantity of copper contained open pits, for copper and its by-product molybdenum.
copper inagiven quantity of ore or concentrate.
Price Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under Copper cathode Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining participation a sales agreement, usually in addition to TC RCs and ofimpure copper byelectro-winning.
calculated as a percentage of the difference between Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered the copper price at final pricing and an agreed reference economic toprocess and used in the calculation of ore copper price, and which may result in an increase or reserves and mineralresources.
Flotation A process by which chemicals are added to materials in Price sharing Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement a solution which are attracted to bubbles and float, asan agreed percentage of the price for the metal while other materials sink, resulting inthe production of contained in copper concentrate, as an alternative concentrate.
toTC RCs and or price participation.
Grade A Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and Run-of-Mine A process for the recovery of copper from ore, typically copper cathode certificated in the case of El Tesoro and Michilla.
ROM used for low-grade ores.
The mined, uncrushed ore is Greenfield The development or exploration of a new project not leached with a chemical solution.
The metal is then project previously examined.
recovered from the solution through the SX-EW process.
Heap-leaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
Thecrushed material is laid on a slightly sloping, SX-EW Solvent-Extraction and Electro-Winning.
A process impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling forextracting metal from an ore and producing pure gravity fed chemical solution through the beds to metal.
First the metal is leached into solution: the ponds.
The metal is then recovered from the solution resulting solution is then purified in the solventthrough the SX-EW process.
extraction process: the solution is then treated in an JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
electro chemical process electro-winning to recover Leaching The process by which a soluble mineral can cathode copper.
Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which LOM or The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, remains as a result of the concentrating process Life of Mine calculated by reference to scheduled production rates afterthe recoverable minerals have been extracted i. e. comparing the rate at which ore is expected to be inconcentrate form.
extracted from the mine to current defined reserves.
TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being terms used to Mineral Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such set the smelting and refining charge or margin resources form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects forprocessing copper concentrate and normally for eventual economic extraction.
Mineral resources are seteither on an annual basis or on a spot basis.
stated inclusive of ore reserves, asdefined by JORC.
Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate MW Megawatts one million watts.
These include TC RCs, price participation and price sharing for copper concentrate Open pit Mine working or excavation which is open and roasting charges for molybdenum concentrate.
Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can of ore processed over a given period oftimeexpressed beeconomically and legallyextracted.
Ore grade The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal Underground Natural or man-made excavation under the surface content in an ore body or quantity of processed ore. mine ofthe Earth.
Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments have been carried out to demonstrate at a given date extraction could be reasonably justified and which include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social andgovernmental factors.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 171 Currency abbreviations US cents Cents of US dollars.
Definitions and conversion of weights and measures g t grammes per tonne.
