Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 101 Notes to the financial statements IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
IFRS 11 deals with how 1 Basis of preparation a joint arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control should be classified.
Under IFRS 11, a jointly controlled arrangement that is classified a Accounting standards applied as a joint venture cannot be accounted for using proportionate consolidation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and must be accounted for using the equity method.
The Group has International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts previously used proportionate consolidation to account for joint ventures ofthe Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
according to IAS 31, and following the adoption of IFRS 11 these amounts Forthese purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued by the will be accounted for using the equity method.
Although the assessment of International Accounting Standards Board IASB and Interpretations the anticipated impact of the standard is continuing the Group does not issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee expect this will have a significant impact.
IFRIC that have been endorsed by the European Union EU.
IFRS 12 is a disclosure standard and is applicable to entities that have The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and or Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the unconsolidated structured entities.
In general, the disclosure requirements Groups going concern status are within the corporate governance report.
inIFRS 12 are more extensive than those in the current standards.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for fair value measurements The prior year balance sheet reflects a reclassification of certain balances and disclosures about fair value measurements.
The Standard defines fair between current and non-current inventories to better reflect balances value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and requires which are expected to be processed more than 12 month after the balance disclosures about fair value measurements.
The Group anticipates that IFRS sheet date.
At 31 December 2011 this results in a current inventory balance 13 will be adopted in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the of US$435.8 million and non-current inventory balance of US$104.7 million.
annual period beginning 1 January 2013 and that the application of the new At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standard may affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial result in more extensive disclosures in the financial statements.
statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRIC 20 clarifies the requirements for stripping costs in the production IFRS 9 Financial instruments phase of a surface mine and is effective for annual periods beginning on IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements orafter January 2013.
The Group will adopt the interpretation across its operations for the annual period beginning 1 January 2013 and has IFRS 11 Joint arrangements assessed the impact of adoption on the treatment of operational stripping IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in other entities costs at each of its operations.
The Group does not expect adoption of the IFRS 13 Fair value measurement interpretation to result in any significant change to the comparative figures IAS 27 as revised in 2011 Separate financial statements tobe included in the 2013 financial statements.
IAS 28 as revised in 2011 Investments in associates and joint ventures b Adoption of new accounting standards IAS 32 as revised in 2011 Financial Instruments: Presentation In the current financial year the Group has adopted the following standards IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of that have affected the presentation and disclosure in these financial asurface mine statements: The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements amended June measurement of the Groups financial assets in particular as the standard 2011.
The amendments increase the required level of disclosure within the introduces new classifications of financial assets.
The amendment requires items within The Group will adopt IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 in the consolidated the statement of comprehensive income to be analysed between items that financial statements for the annual period beginning 1 January 2013. will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and items that will be IFRS 10 replaces the parts of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial reclassified to profit or loss in accordance with the respective IFRS to which statements that deal with the consolidated financial statements.
includes a new definition of control that contains three elements: a power The following standards, interpretations and amendments are effective but over an investee, b exposure, or rights, to variable returns from investment have not had any significant impact on the financial statements: with the investee, and c the ability to use its power over the investee to Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Deferred tax Recovery of affect the amount of the investors returns.
The Group is continuing with the underlying assets assessment of the anticipated impact of adopting IFRS 10 but does not Amendments to IFRS 1: Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed expect it to have a significant impact on the consolidation of investees in Dates for First-time Adopters theGroup.
Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets and offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Financial statements 10 102 2 Notes to the financial statements c Investments in associates 2 Principal accounting policies An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise a Accounting convention significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the power toparticipate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these convention as modified by the use of fair values to measure certain financial consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
instruments, principally provisionally priced sales as explained in Note 2 f This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group and then, and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 y. in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to reflect the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment and b Basis of consolidation any other changes to the associates net assets such as dividends.
When The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements the Groups share of losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in ofAntofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively that associate the Group discontinues recognising its share of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to obtain oftheassociate.
The consolidated financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the d Investments in jointly-controlled entities Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company balances A jointly-controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term and transactions.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net interest and shares joint control over the operating and financial decisions earnings attributable to non-controlling shareholders are presented as with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and Jointly-controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidated income statement.
consolidation, which combines the Groups share of the results of the Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle jointly-controlled entity on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the Groups financial statements.
event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at When a Group entity transacts with its jointly-controlled entity, profits and thenon-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised losses resulting from the transactions with the jointly-controlled entity are amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the measurement basis is made on an  basis.
extent of interests in the jointly-controlled entity that are not related to Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, theGroup.
when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent toacquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the e Currency translation amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the thecurrency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not aretranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests functional currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains and and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in losses on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period within their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the other finance items.
amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in Company is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are translated into When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items are translated recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation of the i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the net assets of such entities are taken to equity and recorded in a separate fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of currency translation reserve.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any the transition date to IFRS are recognised as income or as expenses in the non-controlling interests.
When assets of the subsidiary are carried at income statement in the period in which an operation is disposed.
revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances has been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated between Group entities are taken to reserves where that balance is, in in equity, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive substance, part of the net investment in a foreign operation, i. e. where income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
had directly disposed of the relevant assets i. e. reclassified to profit or Allother exchange gains and losses on Group balances are dealt with in loss or transferred directly to retained earnings as specified by theincome statement.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial theperiod-end rate.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a jointly controlled entity.
Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note 2 g relating to business combinations and goodwill.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 103 f Revenue recognition g Business combinations and goodwill Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair consideration received or receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of theassets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group have passed.
This is generally when title and any insurance risk has passed in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements agreed location or when any services have been provided.
fromthe effective date of acquisition.
The identifiable assets, liabilities Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with andcontingent liabilities of a business which can be measured reliably anadjustment for provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained arerecorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
For copper and molybdenum concentrates, which are sold to Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition smelters and roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced amount date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
isthe market value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination fortolling charges.
Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisitioncathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in atthe time of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average abusiness combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent London Metal Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted market molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
from 30 to 120 days after delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional contains an embedded derivative which is required to be separated from information obtained during the measurement period which cannot thehost contract.
The host contract is the sale of metals contained in the exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges that existed at the acquisition date.
deducted, and the embedded derivative is the forward contract for which The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted.
At each reporting date, the consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments provisionally priced metal sales together with any related tolling charges are depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent marked-to-market, with adjustments both gains and losses being recorded consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent in revenue in the consolidated income statement and in trade debtors in the reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Forward prices at the period end are used for copper Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is concentrate and cathode sales, while period-end average prices are used remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market.
orIAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal asappropriate.
outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
acquisition date i. e. the date when the Group obtains control and the Dividend income from available-for-sale investments and associates resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising isrecognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have beenestablished.
previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of thesum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the next identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition ofassociates is included within investments in equity accounted entities.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
Where the fair values of theidentifiable net assets acquired exceed the sum of the consideration transferred, the surplus is credited to the profit or loss in the period of acquisition as a bargain purchase gain.
Financial statements 10 104 4 Notes to the financial statements i Stripping costs 2 Principal accounting policies continued Pre-stripping and operational stripping costs are incurred in the course g Business combinations and goodwill continued ofthe development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the Group Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal of waste material as part of the acquires an interest in a project company in exchange for funding initial development of an open-pit, in order to allow access to the ore body.
exploration and evaluation expenditure up to a specified level of expenditure These costs are capitalised within mining properties within property, plant or a specified stage in the life of the project.
Funding is usually conditional and equipment.
The capitalised costs are depreciated once production onthe achievement of key milestones by the partner.
Typically there is no commences on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore consideration transferred or funding liability on the effective date of extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable reserves for acquisition of the interest in the project company and no goodwill is that pit at the beginning of the year.
recognised on this type of business combination.
Operational stripping costs relate to the costs of extracting waste material as The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the part of the ongoing mining process.
The costs of extracting material from an consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective date open-pit mine are generally allocated between ore and waste stripping in ofdisposal.
Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as the difference proportion to the tonnes of material extracted.
The waste stripping costs are between the sales proceeds net of expenses and the net assets generally absorbed into inventory, and therefore expensed as that inventory attributable to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal is processed and sold.
Where the stripping costs relate to a significant represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of stripping campaign which is expected to provide benefits for an extended operations, the net results attributable to the disposed entity are shown period of time, the costs will be capitalised within mining properties within separately in the income statement.
The capitalised costs will then be amortised on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted h Exploration and evaluation expenditure compared with the total ore contained in the area of the pit to which the stripping campaign relates.
Exploration and evaluation costs, other than those incurred in acquiring exploration licences, are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
j Intangible assets When a decision is taken that a mining project is commercially viable normally when the project has reached the feasibility stage all further Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are directly attributable pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment of pre-production expenditure ceases when commercial levels of production losses.
Intangible assets include the cost of acquiring exploration licences.
Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the Costs incurred in acquiring exploration licences are accounted for as end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate intangible assets in accordance with the policy in Note 2 j and are stated being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite atcost less accumulated amortisation.
useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Infrastructure assets relating to the Water concession are recorded within intangible assets, as part of concession rights.
Concession rights also include an amount recognised in respect of the right to use those assets notrecognised as their lives extend substantially beyond the period of the concession.
Concession rights are measured as the difference between thecost of the concession and the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition plus the fair value of any further assets transferred to the Group by way of concession subsequent to acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets thatare acquired separately.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 10 105 5 k Property, plant and equipment m Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs ofacquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be areincurred, when a decision has been taken that a mining project is recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the commercially viable normally when the project has reached the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashThe cost of property, plant and equipment comprises the purchase price generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended.
isan indication that the asset may be impaired.
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred in Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value preparing the site for mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are Capitalisation ceases when the mine is capable of commercial production, discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects with the exception of development costs which give rise to a future benefit.
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Interest on borrowings directly related to construction or development of specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not projects is capitalised, until such time as the assets are substantially ready beenadjusted.
for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is For mining properties, estimates of future cash flows are based on when they are capable of commercial production.
assumptions as to expected production levels, commodity prices, cash costs of production and capital expenditure.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets l Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows that can be amortisation of intangible assets recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement-related expenditure.
When calculating value in use, it also requires that calculations Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over should be based on exchange rates current at the time of assessment.
theremaining life of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major Foroperations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: impairment review is conducted in the relevant functional currency.
i Land freehold land is not depreciated.
Any leasehold land is If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated depreciated on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
tobe less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised financing recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income costs, are depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to statement immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the thevolume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
value that would have been determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the income statement iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis immediately.
v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
vi Machinery, equipment and other assets straight-line basis over 5to10 years.
vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available foruse.
viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter ofthe lease term andtheir useful life.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, atleast annually, and changes to residual values and useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
Financial statements 10 106 6 Notes to the financial statements p Taxation 2 Principal accounting policies continued Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the period relating to both n Investment property current and deferred tax.
Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or for capital Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ appreciation and includes land held for a currently undetermined future use.
from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes The Group has elected to adopt the cost model in IAS 40 Investment items of income or expense that are taxable and deductible in different years Property.
Accordingly, investment property is measured initially at cost, and also excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The liability for which includes transaction costs for the acquisition of the property and, current tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the consolidated asdetailed in Note 2 l relating to property, plant and equipment, is financial statements which have been enacted or substantively enacted at notdepreciated.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary o Inventory differences i. e. differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used Inventory consists of raw materials and consumables, work-in-progress and inthe computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the finished goods.
Work-in-progress represents material that is in the process balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary differences of being converted into finished goods.
The conversion process for mining with certain limited exceptions as follows: operations depends on the nature of the copper ore. For sulphide ores, processing includes milling and concentrating and results in the production i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and of copper concentrate.
For oxide ores, processing includes leaching of joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to control the stockpiles, solution extraction and electro-winning and results in the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance production of copper cathodes.
Finished goods consist of copper ofpast profits earned in the foreseeable future: concentrate containing gold and silver at Los Pelambres and Esperanza and ii d eferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or copper cathode at El Tesoro and Michilla.
Los Pelambres also produces liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable molybdenum as a by-product.
profit and is not a business combination: nor is deferred tax provided on Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, and subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and liabilities, net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price for example where they are depreciated: and less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress is production cost and for raw materials and consumables it is purchase price.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that Production cost includes: they will be recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Labour costs, raw material costs and other costs directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the Depreciation of plant, equipment and mining properties directly involved period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is inthe production process: charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also An appropriate portion of production overheads.
Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted and is available for further processing.
Costs directly attributable to the extraction of ore are generally allocated as part of production cost in proportion to the tonnes of material extracted.
Operational stripping costs are generally absorbed into inventory, and therefore expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
If ore will not be processed within 12 months of the statement of financial position date it is included within non-current assets.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when any stockpiled ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 10 107 7 q Provisions t Share-based payment Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the At the end of each reporting period until the liability is settled, and at the date amount of the obligation.
of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
The Group currently does The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the not have any equity share-based payments to employees or third parties.
consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding u Post-employment benefits the obligation.
When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
For such schemes, the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable in the year.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
r Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs Theseverance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs when independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and formal closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
losses are immediately recognised in income statement within Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation operatingcost.
work, discounted to their net present value, are provided and capitalised atthe start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs v Cash and cash equivalents arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged against profits over the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call life of the mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or with banks, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amortisation of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as financing value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current period.
w Liquid investments The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments that charged against operating profits as extraction progresses.
Changes in the donot meet the IAS 7 definition of cash and cash equivalents, normally measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during production because even if readily accessible, the underlying investments have an is charged against operating profit.
average maturity profile greater than 90 days from the date first entered into.
These assets are designated as fair value through profit or loss.
s Provision for termination of Water concession x Leases Under the terms of the Water concession from ECONSSA, certain items of working capital recognised by Aguas fide Antofagasta are to be transferred to Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement the state-owned operator ECONSSA at the end of the concession period for account in equal annual amounts over the term of the lease.
Provision is made for the estimated net present value of Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at these assets and liabilities which are expected to be in existence when the inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the concession comes to an end.
The unwinding of the discount is charged minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit within financing costs.
The interest element is charged within financing costs so as toproduce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance oftheliability.
Financial statements 10 108 8 Notes to the financial statements vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 25 e, the 2 Principal accounting policies continued Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price movements.
The y Other financial instruments Group does not use such derivative instruments for trading purposes.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The effective provisions of the instrument.
portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of future cash flows have been i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently joint ventures are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
recognised in profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit and are normally measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 25 b. in profit or loss are recorded within revenue.
The time value element of Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in measured are measured at cost.
Securities are classified as held-forprofit or loss within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other trading when they are acquired principally for the purpose of sale in the financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate short term, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to included in profit or loss for the period.
Other investments are classified those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair as available-for-sale, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value.
Changes in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the period.
value are recognised directly in equity, within the Fair value reserve, The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionally-priced until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which commodity sales contracts is set out in further detail in Note 2 f relating time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is to revenue.
included in profit or loss for the period.
Dividends on available-for-sale vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at equity investments are recognised in the income statement when the fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of right to receive payment is established.
impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events generally carry any interest and are normally stated at their nominal that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the value less any impairment.
Impairment losses on trade receivables are estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
recognised within an allowance account unless the Group considers Forloans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the difference that no recovery of the amount is possible, in which case the carrying between the assets carrying value and the present value of estimated value of the asset is reduced directly.
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
not interest-bearing and are normally stated at their nominal value.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans impairmentloss directly for all financial assets with the exception and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net oftrade receivables.
They are subsequently measured at amortised With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the amethod of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective is reversed through profit or loss immediately to the extent that the interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been appropriate, a shorter period.
Finance charges, including premiums had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are equity instruments, any increase in fair value subsequent to an accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Amounts are either recorded as financing costs in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 k. Finance charges are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a fixed rate of return without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classified within borrowings and translated into US dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are included within finance costs.
v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments of the Company comprise its sterling denominated issued ordinary share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 e, the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates of exchange based on dates of issue.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 10 109 9 c Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty As explained in Note 2 r, provision is made, based on net present values, for decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs as soon as the obligation Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements arises following the development or ongoing production of a mining involves the use of judgement and or estimation.
The provision is based on a closure plan prepared with the estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts assistance of external consultants.
and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual results may Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information case of capitalised decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs about such judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting over the life of the mine.
The ultimate cost of decommissioning and site policies in Note 2 or the other notes to the financial statements, and the key rehabilitation cost is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to areas are set out below.
many factors including changes to relevant legal requirements, the a Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment emergence of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
and ore reserves estimates The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a As explained in Note 2 l, mining properties, including capitalised financing result, there could be significant adjustments to the provisions established costs, are depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the which would affect future financial results.
year compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
d Deferred taxation There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and As explained in Note 2 p, deferred tax is not provided for future tax payable assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when new on undistributed earnings where the Group is able to control the remittance information becomes available.
These include assumptions as to grade of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance of past profits estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, commodity prices, exchange earned in the foreseeable future.
rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and reclamation costs and Management uses its judgement in estimating the probability of such discount rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any changes in these remittances.
These are based on Group forecasts and include assumptions assumptions could affect prospective depreciation rates and carrying as to future profits and cash flows which depend on several factors values.
including commodity prices, operating costs, production levels, capital The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated expenditures, interest costs, debt repayment and tax rates and cash on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Management requirements which may also depend on several factors including future reviews the appropriateness of useful economic lives at least annually and, dividend levels.
A change in the assumptions used or in the estimate as to again, any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset the probability that past profits will be remitted would impact the deferred carrying values.
tax charge and balance sheet provision.
b Impairment of assets As explained in Note 2 m, the Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
In making assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cashflows are allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit CGU.
Therecoverable amount of those assets, or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and inselecting appropriate discount rates to be applied within the value in use calculation.
The key assumptions are set out in Note 2 m and Note 5.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation, licencing status, reserves and resources, price assumptions or other estimates and assumptions in thevalue in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respectiveassets.
Financial statements 11 110 0 Notes to the financial statements 4 Revenue and total profit from operations and associates An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Sales of goods 6,558.3 5,900.6 Rendering of services 181.8 175.4 Group revenue 6,740.1 6,076.0 Other operating income 14.3 10.7 Investment income 24.6 23.3 Total revenue 6,779.0 6,110.0 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures and total profit from operations and associates is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Group revenue 6,740.1 6,076.0 Cost of sales 2,464.5 2,139.9 Gross profit 4,275.6 3,936.1 Administrative and distribution expenses 606.1 469.7 Closure provision 0.3 16.5 Severance charges 21.8 4.3 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional item 50 0.0 140.5 Exploration and evaluation expenditure 300.8 215.4 Other operating income 14.3 10.7 Other operating expenses 23.1 27.0 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,838.4 3,073.4 Share of income from associates 6.7 24.0 Total profit from operations and associates 2,845.1 3,097.4 Details of exceptional items are given in Note 5.
Included in share of income from associates in December 2011 is US$18.8 million for the Groups share of proceeds received in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. relating to compensation for lost profits from the main contractor as a result of delays to the construction.
5 Exceptional items The exceptional items in the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 and their impact on the results are set out below.
Operating profit Profit before tax Earnings per share 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US cents US cents Before exceptional item 3,338.4 3,213.9 3,254.2 3,216.7 140.2 139.7 Provision against carrying value of assets 50 0.0 140.5 50 0.0 140.5 35.5 14.3 After exceptional items 2,838.4 3,073.4 2,754.2 3,076.2 104.7 125.4 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 111 111 In December 2012 development of the Antucoya project was temporarily The following general assumptions are relevant to assessments of the suspended while a review of the project was undertaken, given existing and Groups mining projects or operations: potential levels of cost escalation.
The review, which is intended to provide Commodity prices greater certainty over the cost position and other relevant parameters for the Commodity price assumptions are based on internal forecasts.
A decision as to whether to resume development of forecasting process includes an assessment of the likely development of the the project will be taken when the review is complete.
Given the inherent supply demand balance of the industry over the coming years, incorporating uncertainties while a review such as this is being undertaken, an impairment estimates of future demand levels and analysis of likely new mining projects, review has been performed in respect of the project as at 31 December including the incentive price for those new projects.
External consensus 2012, and as a consequence an impairment of US$500 million has been commodity price forecasts are used as part of this forecasting process, recognised in respect of the projects assets.
The Groups attributable share partly as a benchmarking process.
of the impairment is US$350 million.
No tax credit has been recorded Ore reserves relating to the impairment.
The recoverable amount in the impairment review Production volumes incorporated into mine plans will be based primarily on was determined by a value in use calculation prepared using managements ore reserve estimates.
The ore reserve estimates are subject to a number current forecasts as to capital expenditure, future commodity prices, ofassumptions and estimations, including geological, metallurgical and operating costs and production volumes.
The present value of the forecast technical factors, future commodity prices and production costs.
future cash flows was calculated using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.5%.
Capital expenditure, operating costs and production levels In the year ended 31 December 2011 a provision of US$140.5 million Capital expenditure, operating costs and production levels for projects under consisting of US$120.7 million of intangible assets and US$19.8 million development will be based firstly on the detailed project feasibility study, ofproperty, plant and equipment was made relating to the Groups joint updated where relevant for specific negotiations or contractual agreements venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Ltd. Further details in respect with suppliers, and actual cost levels being experienced.
Production levels ofthisare set out in Note 38. will depend upon the duration of the construction period, and the ramp-up Key assumptions used in the impairment review process period required to reach full production capacity.
The estimation of the value in use of an asset, through determining the Operating costs and production levels for operating assets will be based present value of the forecast future cash flows, is inherently uncertain and oninternal budgets and mine plans.
Detailed operational and financial subject to anumber of forecasts and assumptions which could change budgets for the following year are produced on an annual basis.
The key assumptions are discussed below.
term production and cost forecasts will be based on long-term mine plans, Antucoya project which are also updated on an annual basis.
In the specific case of the Antucoya project, as explained above, the project The cost forecasts incorporate estimates of future pricing levels for key inputs is currently under a temporary suspension while a review is undertaken.
such as steel, energy, oil and sulphuric acid, as well as exchange rates.
Therefore, currently the most significant factors in respect of the project Actual production levels will be impacted by the actual grade and arethe outcome of the review process, whether a decision is then taken to characteristics of the ore which is mined, the recovery levels achieved resume development of the project, and if so the timing of the resumption whenthat ore is processed, and the general efficiency and reliability of ofdevelopment.
the operations plant and equipment.
Financial statements 11 112 2 Notes to the financial statements 6 Segment information The Groups reportable segments are as follows: Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Antucoya Exploration and evaluation Railway and other transport services Water concession Corporate and other items For management purposes, the Group is organised into three business divisions based on their products Mining, Railway and other transport services andthe Water concession.
The mining division is split further for management reporting purposes to show results by mine and exploration activity.
LosPelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla are all operating mines and Antucoya is a development project.
Los Pelambres produces primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum as a by-product.
Esperanza produces primarily copper concentrate containing gold as a by-product.
El Tesoro and Michilla both produce copper cathodes.
The transport division provides rail cargo based in Chile and Bolivia and road cargo based in Chile together with a number of ancillary services based in Chile.
The water division produces and distributes potable water to domestic customers and untreated water to industrial customers in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Exploration and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation expenses.
Exploration costs relating to Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan are included within the Exploration and evaluation segment, and all other Tethyan related costs are included within Corporate and other items.
Corporate and other items also comprise costs incurred by the Company and Antofagasta Minerals S. A. the Groups mining corporate centre, that are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Consistent with its internal management reporting, the Groups corporate and other items are included within the mining division.
Management monitors the operating results of business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Segment performance is evaluated based on the operating profit of each of the segments.
Operating profit excludes the share of net gain from associates of US$6.7 million year ended 31 December 2011 net gain of US$24.0 million.
Operating profit is shown after exceptional items see Note 5. ii I nter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of US$6.2 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$14.7 million.
Revenue from the Water concession is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of US$6.8 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$7.3 million and after eliminating sales tothe Railway and other transport services of US$0.2 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$0.2 million.
Revenue from Esperanza is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales of the Run-of-Mine oxides to El Tesoro of US$4.8 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$16.4 million.
iii R evenue includes the effect of both final pricing and mark-to-market adjustments to provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 25 d. iv Revenue includes a loss at Los Pelambres of US$5.9 million year ended 31 December 2011 nil, a realised gain on commodity derivatives at El Tesoro of US$0.2 million year ended 31 December 2011 gain of US$0.5 million and a realised gain at Michilla of US$6.1 million year ended 31 December 2011 loss of US$15.6 million.
Further details of such gains or losses are given in Note 25 e. v The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 25 d. vi The exceptional item affecting operating profit in 2011 relates to a provision against carrying value of assets of Reko Diq see Note 5. vii The effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
viii Capital expenditure represents purchases of property, plant and equipment stated on an accruals basis see Note 14 and may therefore differ from theamount included in the cash flow statement.
ix T he assets of the Railway and transport services segment includes US$80.8 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$74.3 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones inChiles Antofagasta Region and US$4.8 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$6.0 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International S. A. ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
The assets of Corporate and other items segment includes US$22.0 million year ended 31 December 2011 US$4.5 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayan S. A. an energy company which has been formed to construct and operate a wind farm in Chile.
Financial statements 11 114 4 Notes to the financial statements 6 Segment information continued b Entity-wide disclosures Revenue by product 2012 2011 US$m US$m Copper Los Pelambres 3,091.3 3,255.9 Esperanza 1,249.0 646.4 El Tesoro 851.0 827.8 Michilla 307.4 355.0 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 314.7 293.8 Gold Los Pelambres 85.7 63.9 Esperanza 415.5 251.3 Silver Los Pelambres 62.0 63.0 Esperanza 39.7 25.2 Total Mining 6,416.3 5,782.3 Railway and transport services 190.4 178.8 Water concession 133.4 114.9 6,740.1 6,076.0 Revenue by location of customer 2012 2011 US$m US$m Europe United Kingdom 35.2 Switzerland 77.3 215.7 Rest of Europe 635.7 722.2 Latin America Chile 386.7 364.8 Rest of Latin America 237.4 208.2 North America United States 258.9 229.9 Asia Japan 2,390.5 2,268.9 China 1,508.9 1,145.4 Rest of Asia 1,209.5 920.9 6,740.1 6,076.0 Information about major customers In the year ended 31 December 2012 the Groups mining revenues included US$1,143.8 million related to one large customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenues year ended 31 December 2011 two large customers representing US$1,875.9 million.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 11 115 5 Non-current assets by location of assets 2012 2011 US$m US$m Chile 6,922.7 6,733.3 Bolivia 34.1 32.3 USA 93.8 92.0 Other 2.1 1.0 7,052.7 6,858.6 Non-current assets balance disclosed by location of asset excludes financial instruments, available for sale investments and deferred tax assets.
7 Profit for the year Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Foreign exchange losses gains included in net finance costs 4.8 14.2 included in income tax expense 0.3 2.1 Amortisation of intangible asset included in cost of sales 14.6 14.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 470.6 404.7 assets held under finance leases 9.0 12.3 Property and equipment written-off 6.0 18.8 Impairments of property, plant and equipment exceptional items 50 0.0 140.5 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 1,753.1 1,617.2 Employee benefit expense 395.5 301.0 Auditors remuneration audit and audit-related services 1.3 1.3 non-audit services 0.8 0.7 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 229 208 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 279 179 the audit of the Companys subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 302 279 Total audit fees 810 666 Audited related services 522 665 Total fees for audit and audit-related services 1,332 1,331 Other non-audit fees Tax compliance services 13 23 Other taxation advisory services 18 22 Other services 807 644 Total other non-audit service fees 838 689 Total auditors remuneration 2,170 2,020 Audit-related services of US$522,000 in 2012 US$665,000 in 2011 relate mainly to reviewing of the half-yearly financial report pursuant to legislation, assistance with local IFRS implementation and review of IFRS 2010 pro-forma financial statements.
Other services of US$807,000 in 2012 US$644,000 in 2011 relates mainly to fees paid by Los Pelambres for environmental advisory services relating tomonitoring of compliance with environmental commitments.
Details of Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 80.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Financial statements 11 116 6 Notes to the financial statements 8 Employee benefit expense a Average number of employees 2012 2011 Number Number Los Pelambres 878 816 Esperanza 1,032 753 El Tesoro 571 526 Michilla 709 589 Exploration and evaluation 54 36 Corporate and other employees Chile 371 259 United Kingdom 12 10 Other 62 83 Mining 3,689 3,072 Railway and other transport services 1,662 1,606 Water concession 286 278 5,637 4,956 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries and the Groups share of employees of jointly controlled entities.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates.
iii The average number of employees includes the Executive Director but does not include Non-Executive Directors.
b Aggregated remuneration The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 394.0 286.9 Social security costs 15.3 9.8 Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 22.2 4.3 Long-term incentive plan charge in the year 4.5 436.0 301.0 During 2012, the amount relating to Minera Antucoya of US$13.8 million on wages, salaries and security cost and US$0.4 million of severance charge has been capitalised, and subsequently impaired.
c Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and for the running of the key business divisions of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 23.0 20.1 Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 0.5 0.5 Long-term incentive plan charge in the year 2.3 25.8 20.6 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on pages 84 to 88.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 11 117 7 9 Net finance expense 2012 2011 US$m US$m Investment revenue Interest receivable 19.6 21.0 Fair value through profit or loss 5.0 2.3 24.6 23.3 Interest expense Interest payable 85.7 93.0 Preference dividends 0.2 0.2 85.9 93.2 Other finance items Time value effect of derivatives 12.4 49.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 3.3 Unwinding of discount on provisions 12.4 11.3 Foreign exchange 4.8 14.2 29.6 48.7 Net finance expense 90.9 21.2 At 31 December 2012 an expense of US$1.3 million relating to net interest expense and other finance items at Antucoya at 31 December 2011 US$2.2 million at Esperanza was capitalised, and subsequently impaired, during the year and is consequently not included within the above table.
10 Taxation The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 546.7 541.5 Mining tax Royalty 177.5 203.2 Withholding tax 147.7 218.5 Exchange gains losses on corporate tax balances 0.3 2.1 871.6 965.3 Deferred tax charge credit Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 154.9 75.8 Mining tax Royalty 0.1 3.4 Withholding tax 6.0 91.5 149.0 19.1 Total tax charge Income tax expense 1,020.6 946.2 The rate of first category i. e. corporation tax in Chile remained at 20% in 2012.
The rate was initially decreased to 18.5% according to amendments to the Chilean tax regime introduced in 2010.
However, in the second half of 2012 the Chilean government passed a bill to increase the rate back to 20% and to apply this increase retrospectively with effect from 1 January 2012.
The rate is expected to remain at 20% for the foreseeable future.
Los Pelambres, El Tesoro, Michilla and Esperanza are also subject to a mining tax royalty which is tax deductible i. e. an allowable expense in determining liability to first category tax.
On 12 January 2011 the Group voluntarily elected to accept amendments to the mining tax as permitted pursuant to a law enacted in Chile on 21 October 2010.
Between 2010 and 2012, production from Los Pelambres, Esperanza, the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits at El Tesoro and Michilla is subject to a mining tax royalty at a rate of between 49% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate of4% applied to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of below 40% and a maximum rate of 9% applied to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin exceeding 75%.
Production from the Tesoro North-East deposit and the Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro is subject to a mining tax at a rate of between 514% of tax-adjusted operating profit, based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate of 5% applying to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin of below 35% and a maximum rate of 14% applied to operations with a tax-adjusted operating profit margin exceeding 85%.
In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on any remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
Accordingly, withholding tax will be levied at a rate of 18% in respect ofremittances of profits earned in recent years when the first category i. e. corporation tax rate was 17%.
Withholding tax will be levied at a rate of15% inrespect of remittances of profits earned when the current rate of first category i. e. corporation tax of 20% is applied.
Financial statements 11 118 8 Notes to the financial statements 10 Taxation continued 2012 2011 US$m % US$m % Profit before tax 2,754.2 3,076.2 Tax at the Chilean corporate tax rate of 20% for 2012 2011 20% 550.8 20.0 615.2 20.0 Tax effect of share of results of associate 1.3 4.8 0.2 Provision against carrying value of assets not recognised for deferred tax 100.0 3.6 28.1 0.9 Items not subject to or deductible from first category tax 15.7 0.5 3.4 0.1 Effect of increase in first category tax rate on deferred tax balances 67.8 2.5 Effect of deferred tax rates provided at rates lower than current year first category tax rate 24.6 0.7 Royalty 177.6 6.4 199.8 6.5 Withholding taxes provided in year 141.7 5.1 127.0 4.1 Exchange differences 0.3 2.1 0.1 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 1,020.6 37.1 946.2 30.8 The tax charge for the year was US$1,020.6 million and the effective tax rate was 37.1%.
This rate varies from the standard rate of 20% principally due to the withholding tax charge of US$141.7 million, the effect of the Chilean mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$177.6 million, deferred tax effect of US$67.8 million as a result of the permanent increase in the first category tax rate in Chile from 17% to 20% and the effect of the US$500 million impairment provision against the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment relating to Antucoya for which a tax credit has not been recorded.
In 2011 the total tax charge was US$946.2 million and the effective tax rate was 30.8%.
This rate varied from the standard rate of 20% principally due to the withholding tax charge of US$127.0 million and the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of US$199.8 million.
11 Earnings per share 2012 2011 US$m US$m Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings 1,032.0 1,236.6 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings excluding exceptional items 1,382.0 1,377.1 2012 2011 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2012 2011 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 104.7 125.4 Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items 140.2 139.7 Basic earnings per share is calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items is calculated on profit after tax and non-controlling interest giving net earnings, excluding exceptional items and related tax and non-controlling interest, of US$1,382.0 million.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 11 119 9 12 Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2012 2011 2012 2011 US cents US cents US$m US$m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 118.3 118.3 12.0 12.0 special 236.6 985.9 24.0 100.0 354.9 1,104.2 36.0 112.0 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 83.8 78.8 8.5 8.0 83.8 78.8 8.5 8.0 438.7 1,183.0 44.5 120.0 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements, is as follows: 2012 2011 2012 2011 US cents US cents US$m US$m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 123.2 118.3 12.5 12.0 special 764.1 236.6 77.5 24.0 887.3 354.9 90.0 36.0 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2012 including the interim dividend of 98.5 cents per share or US$971.1 million 2011 44 cents per share or US$433.8 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to US$0.2 million 2011 US$0.2 million.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend of 90.0 cents will be paid on 13 June 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 May 2013.
Shareholders can elect on or before 13 May 2013 to receive this interim dividend in US Dollars, Pounds Sterling or Euro, and the exchange rate to be applied to interim dividends to be paid in Pounds Sterling or Euro will be set as soon as reasonably practicable after that date which is currently anticipated to be on 16 May 2013.
Further details of the currency election timing and process including the default currency of payment are available on the Antofagasta plc website www.
co. uk or from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 870 702 0159.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors report.
Financial statements 12 120 0 Notes to the financial statements 13 Intangible assets Total Concession Exploration intangible right licences assets US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2011 271.3 120.7 392.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 29.5 29.5 At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012 241.8 120.7 362.5 Additions 3.9 3.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 20.7 20.7 At 31 December 2012 266.4 120.7 387.1 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2011 80.5 80.5 Charge for the year 14.7 14.7 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 120.7 120.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 8.7 8.7 At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012 86.5 120.7 207.2 Charge for the year 14.6 14.6 Foreign currency exchange difference 7.7 7.7 At 31 December 2012 108.8 120.7 229.5 Net book value At 31 December 2012 157.6 157.6 At 31 December 2011 155.3 155.3 The concession right relates to the 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile which the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. acquired in December 2003 and any other subsequent additions or acquisitions subject to the terms of the concession.
This intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
In 2011 the US$120.7 million provision against the carrying value of exploration licences relates to the Groups joint venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Ltd. Further details in respect of this are set out in Notes 5 and 38.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 12 121 1 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Machinery, mining Buildings and Railway Wagons and equipment Assets under properties infrastructure track rolling stock and others construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2011 911.4 2,427.8 63.4 132.2 2,733.5 1,651.4 7,919.7 Additions 95.2 1.4 0.1 8.9 93.5 573.8 772.9 Decommissioning provisions capitalised 56.7 56.7 Reclassifications 41.9 810.3 4.0 5.1 1,097.8 1,968.1 9.0 Asset disposals 0.1 2.2 4.6 12.3 12.1 31.3 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.1 4.1 0.3 5.1 0.7 1.3 At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012 1,048.5 3,241.4 67.5 141.9 3,964.1 244.3 8,707.7 Additions 101.4 2.6 3.9 6.7 38.8 850.1 1,003.5 Decommissioning provisions capitalised 59.6 59.6 Reclassifications 4.1 154.9 2.7 129.1 284.6 2.0 Asset disposals 0.6 0.3 4.7 16.2 0.2 22.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 3.7 4.1 0.2 8.0 At 31 December 2012 1,145.2 3,402.3 71.4 146.6 4,179.5 809.8 9,754.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 381.0 605.1 12.6 68.1 755.5 4.0 1,826.3 Charge for the year 64.8 128.7 2.2 10.0 211.3 417.0 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 23.9 23.9 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 1.5 18.3 19.8 Reclassifications 6.0 0.1 14.9 9.0 Asset disposals 1.2 3.7 7.6 12.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.8 At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012 445.8 739.7 14.8 74.4 986.0 4.0 2,264.7 Charge for the year 50.1 146.7 2.4 11.2 269.2 479.6 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 8.1 8.1 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 56.4 443.6 500.0 Reclassifications 2.4 0.1 2.3 Asset disposals 0.1 3.5 12.4 16.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 4.7 0.5 5.2 At 31 December 2012 552.3 893.4 17.2 82.0 1,249.1 447.6 3,241.6 Net book value At 31 December 2012 592.9 2,508.9 54.2 64.6 2,930.4 362.2 6,513.2 At 31 December 2011 602.7 2,501.7 52.7 67.5 2,978.1 240.3 6,443.0 Assets under finance leases included in the totals above Net book value At 31 December 2012 28.0 30.1 58.1 At 31 December 2011 30.7 34.3 65.0 The Group has pledged assets with a carrying value of US$2,123 million 2011 US$637.9 million as security against bank loans provided to the Group.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to US$748 million 2011 US$126.1 million of which US584.6 million were related to the development of Antucoya project.
As part of the review of the Antucoya project which is currently being undertaken the majority of the projects contracts were cancelled subsequent to the year end in January 2013, without incurring significant cancellation penalties.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was US$1.3 million in 2012 2011 US$0.9 million.
At 31 December 2012 US$8.1 million 2011 US$23.9 million of depreciation in respect of assets relating to Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla have been capitalised within inventories, and accordingly is excluded from the depreciation charge recorded in the income statement as shown in Note 6 a.
The US$500.0 million provision in 2012 against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment relates to the Antucoya project.
Further details in respect of this are set out in Note 5.
The US$19.8 million provision in 2011 against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment relates to assets held by the Groups joint venture Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Financial statements 12 122 2 Notes to the financial statements 15 Investment property 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 3.1 3.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.4 0.6 Balance at the end of the year 3.5 3.1 Investment property represents the Groups forestry properties, which are held for long-term potential and accordingly classified as investment property and held at cost as permitted by IAS 40.
The fair value of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2012 was US$11.0 million 2011 US$11.0 million, based on an independent valuation carried out during 2008 by Gabriel Durn, who is not connected with the Group.
Mr. Durn is a Forestry Engineer, Valuer and Assessor of forestry properties for Banco Itau in Chile, with extensive experience of valuation in the region where the assets are located.
The valuation was based on market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
Direct operating expenses principally ongoing maintenance costs arising on these properties amounted to US$0.2 million 2011 US$0.2 million.
16 Investments in subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
The Group has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 would result in a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Antofagasta plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of incorporation Country of operations Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc Great Britain Chile Railway 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited Great Britain Chile Investment 100% Sierra Gorda Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Minerals S. A. Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile Mining 60% Minera El Tesoro Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Michilla S. A. Chile Chile Mining 74.2% Minera Esperanza Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Antucoya Limitada Chile Chile Mining 70% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA Mining 40% Antofagasta Services Limited Great Britain Great Britain Group services 100% Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Atacama Aguas y Tecnologa Limitada Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia Agency Chile Chile Railway 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile Road transport 100% Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. Bolivia Bolivia Railway 50% Forestal S. A. Chile Chile Forestry 100% The Group exercises management control over the boards of Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. and Twin Metals Minnesota LLC.
Accordingly, these investments are treated as subsidiaries and are consolidated in these Group financial statements.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 12 123 3 17 Investment in associates Inversiones Total Total Hornitos ATI El Arrayan associates associates 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 74.3 6.0 4.5 84.8 58.0 Capital contribution 19.6 19.6 Acquisitions 4.5 Losses in fair value of cash flow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 0.1 1.7 1.8 Interest expense capitalised by associate payable to subsidiary 0.6 0.6 0.5 Share of net profit loss before tax 9.2 0.1 0.4 8.9 29.2 Share of tax 2.1 0.1 2.2 5.2 Share of income loss from associates 7.1 0.4 6.7 24.0 Dividends received 1.1 1.1 1.2 Balance at the end of the year 80.8 4.8 22.0 107.6 84.8 The investments which are included in the US$107.6 million balance at 31 December 2012 are set out below: i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
Share of income from associates for the year ended 31 December 2012 includes US$3.4 million for the Groups share of insurance compensation as a result of business interruption that occurred between 20 September 2012 and 28 December 2012.
In 2011 share of income from associates includes US$18.8 million for the Groups share of proceeds received in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. relating to compensation for lost profits fromthe main contractor as a result of delays to the construction.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
iii T he Groups 30% interest in Parque Eolico el Arrayan SPA, which will develop and operate a 115MW wind power plant.
Construction of the plant commenced in July 2012 with the expectation to achieve commercial operation during the third quarter of 2014.
The Groups share of the summarised financial information of investment in associates is as follows: Total Total Inversiones Hornitos ATI El Arrayan associates associates 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets after fair value adjustments 177.0 23.6 40.3 240.9 202.7 Total liabilities 9 6.
0 13 5.7 118.5 Revenue 57.4 10.7 68.1 71.5 Profit loss after tax 7.1 0.4 6.7 24.0 Financial statements 12 124 4 Notes to the financial statements 18 Joint venture agreements a Tethyan Copper Company Limited In 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Tethyan Copper Company Limited now Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limited, and then entered into a joint venture agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick, to establish a 50:50 joint venture in relation to Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limiteds mineral interests in Pakistan.
From the date of incorporation to 31 December 2012, Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limited was wholly engaged in mineral exploration and evaluation activities and did not generate any revenue.
Limiteds operating loss resulting during the year was US$20.4 million 2011 US$23.7 million.
In addition in 2011, the Group made a provision of US$140.5 million against the carrying value in the Group accounts of its 50% share of the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Further details in respect of this are set out in Note 38.
The following amounts represent the Groups 50% share of the assets and liabilities, and results of the jointly-controlled entity, and are included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Total current assets 1.6 2.4 Total current liabilities 4.4 5.0 Total non-current liabilities 0.1 0.2 Groups share of jointly-controlled entitys net assets 2.
2 8.2 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 140.5 Groups share of jointly-controlled entitys results 10.
2 148.7 In addition to these amounts, the Group incurred expenses of US$1.4 million 2011 US$2.4 million relating to Tethyan which are included in Corporate and other items.
In October 2008 Energa Andina S. A. Energa Andina was formed as a vehicle for the exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
Initially the company was 60% owned by the Group and 40% owned by Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP of Chile.
On 6 May 2011 ENAP soldits 40% shareholding in Energa Andina to Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada Origin.
Control over the key operational and financial decisions inrespect of the company are jointly exercised by the Group and Origin, and accordingly the company is accounted for as a jointly-controlled entity, with results included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method.
In 2012 and 2011, Energa Andina S. A. was wholly engaged in geothermal exploration and evaluation activities and did not generate any revenue in the periodafter its incorporation.
The operating loss resulting from Energa Andina S. A. for the year was US$17.5 million 2011 US$12.7 million, which relates mainly to exploration and evaluation costs expensed in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, and of which 60% is attributable to the Group.
The following amounts represent the Groups 60% share of the assets and liabilities, and results of the jointly-controlled entity, and are included in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated income statement of the Group under the proportionate consolidation method: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Total current assets 3.4 4.3 Groups share of jointly-controlled entitys net assets 3.4 4.3 Operating loss 1 7.
5 7.6 Groups share of jointly-controlled entitys results 1 7.
5 7.6 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 12 125 5 19 Available-for-sale investments 2012 2011 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 36.5 21.8 Additions 1.5 27.3 Movements in fair value 5.4 12.3 Foreign currency exchange difference 1.1 0.3 Balance at the end of the year 44.5 36.5 Available-for-sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
At 15 June 2012, Antofagasta subscribed 9.7 million shares of Full Metals Minerals Ltd. for a subscription price of US$1.5 million, representing 16.32% ofFullMetals Minerals Ltd. enlarged issued share capital.
The investments which are included in the US$44.5 million balance at 31 December 2012 are set out below: i US$35.2 million relating to the market value of shares in Duluth Metals Limited.
ii U S$3.7 million relating to the market value of shares in Panoro Minerals Limited.
iii US$3.2 million relating to the market value of shares in Eurasian Minerals Inc. iv US$0.8 million relating to the market value of share in Stratex International plc.
v US$0.7 million relating to the market value of share in Sipa Resources Limited.
vi US$0.8 million relating to the market value of share in Full Metals Limited.
vii US$0.1 million relating to the market value of other investments.
20 Inventories 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current: Raw materials and consumables 192.7 148.0 Work-in-progress 243.4 241.8 Finished goods 58.8 46.0 494.9 435.8 Non-current: Work-in-progress 162.5 104.7 162.5 104.7 Total 657.4 540.5 Non-current work-in-progress represents inventory expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Inventories with a carrying amount of US$126.3 million 2011 US$24.6 million have been pledged as security for the Esperanza project financing.
21 Trade and other receivables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade debtors 599.4 712.3 0.6 0.5 600.0 712.8 Other debtors 202.5 212.6 107.7 67.2 310.2 279.8 801.9 924.9 108.3 67.7 910.2 992.6 The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
Many other significant trade receivables are secured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
The average credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 32 days 2011 42 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing: where these have resulted in credit balances, they have been reclassified to trade creditors.
Financial statements 12 126 6 Notes to the financial statements 21 Trade and other receivables continued Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.9 3.4 Charge for the year 2.3 0.8 Unused amounts reversed 0.3 0.1 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.2 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 6.1 3.9 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Up to 3 months 36 months More than impaired past due past due 6 months past due Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 900.4 6.6 1.4 1.8 910.2 2011 988.9 2.4 0.3 1.0 992.6 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does nothold any collateral as security.
Included within trade receivables due within one year is US$63.0 million relating to input VAT incurred at Minera Antucoya.
This amount is available to be offset against future VAT liabilities at Antucoya.
Advanced reimbursements of these amounts are expected to be received from the Chilean Internal Revenue Service while the project is under construction, and are ultimately dependent upon the generation of sales by the project.
At 31 December 2012, the other debtors include US$11.8 million 2011 US$10.3 million relating to prepayments.
22 Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was comprised of: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 1,815.9 1,335.1 Liquid investments 2,480.6 1,944.9 4,296.5 3,280.0 At 31 December 2012 and 2011 there is no cash which is subject to restriction.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m US dollars 4,091.3 3,081.5 Chilean pesos 201.6 165.4 Australian dollars 1.6 27.1 Sterling 0.9 4.4 Other 1.1 1.6 4,296.5 3,280.0 Details of cross-currency swaps in place at the end of the year are given in Note 25 e ii.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 12 127 7 23 Borrowings a Analysis by type of borrowing Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2012 2011 Notes US$m US$m Los Pelambres Corporate loans i 357.8 492.5 Finance leases ii 29.1 32.4 Esperanza Project financing iii 893.8 1,008.7 Subordinated debt iv 238.1 227.7 Short-term loans v 30.0 Finance leases vi 5.2 7.4 El Tesoro Corporate loan vii 214.6 296.2 Finance leases viii 0.9 Antucoya Short-term loan Marubeni ix 102.0 Corporate and other items Finance leases x 39.3 36.0 Railway and other transport services Loans xi 4.7 6.3 Short-term loans xii 0.5 Other Preference shares xiii 3.2 3.1 Total 1,889.2 2,140.3 i C orporate loans at Los Pelambres are unsecured and US dollar denominated.
These loans have a remaining term between two and four years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus margins between 0.9% 1.6%.
ii F inance leasing at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated, comprising US$20.1 million at fixed rate of 5.48% and US$9.0 million at LIBOR three-month plus 3%, with remaining duration of six to seven years.
iii S enior debt at Esperanza comprises US$893.8 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 7.7 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus margins between 1.375% 3.000%.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2012 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Esperanza was US$395.2 million.
iv This balance includes long-term subordinated debt provided to Esperanza by Marubeni Corporation with duration of eight years and weighted average interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 3.75%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Esperanza has been eliminated on consolidation.
v Short-term loans at Esperanza from local banks were repaid during the first months of 2012. vi Finance leases at Esperanza are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of two years and with an average interest rate of approximately LIBOR three-months plus 2.8%.
vii The corporate loans at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated.
This loan has approximately 2.7 years remaining, with an interest rate over the life of the loan of LIBOR six-months plus 1.2%.
viii Finance leases at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated, and are fixed rate with an average interest rate of 1.5%.
ix S hort-term loans at Antucoya from Marubeni have a remaining duration of 3.4 months and an interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 3.65%.
x Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 15.3 years and a fixed rate of 5.29%.
xi Railway and other transport services includes a balance of US$4.5 million related to bonds issued in the Bolivian stock market to refinance short-term loans with a fixed interest rate of 5.5% and duration of two to three years.
xii Short-term loans at Railway and other transport services comprises US$0.5 million from local banks with an average duration of 12 months and with afixed interest rate of 6.0%.
xiii The preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by the Company.
There were 2,000,000 shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2012.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding-up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
Financial statements 12 128 8 Notes to the financial statements 23 Borrowings continued b Analysis of borrowings by currency The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: 2012 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,466.1 1,466.1 Other loans including short-term loans 345.5 345.5 Finance leases 37.8 36.6 74.4 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 37.8 3.2 1,848.2 1,889.2 2011 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,797.4 1,797.4 Other loans including short-term loans 264.0 264.0 Finance leases 35.3 40.5 75.8 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 35.3 3.1 2,101.9 2,140.3 c Analysis of borrowings by type of interest rate The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2012 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2012 US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,466.2 1,466.2 Other loans including short-term loans 5.2 340.2 345.4 Finance leases 60.2 14.2 74.4 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 68.6 1,820.6 1,889.2 2011 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 1,797.4 1,797.4 Other loans including short-term loans 6.3 257.7 264.0 Finance leases 57.9 17.9 75.8 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 67.3 2,073.0 2,140.3 The above floating rate corporate loans include the project financing at Esperanza, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2012 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt was US$395.2 million 2011 US$840.0 million.
d Maturity profile The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2012 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 330.1 330.4 472.9 332.7 1,466.1 Other loans 104.2 1.5 1.5 238.2 345.4 Finance leases 12.7 10.3 21.3 30.2 74.5 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 447.0 342.2 495.7 604.3 1,889.2 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 12 129 9 Within Between Between After 2011 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 261.8 330.0 671.7 533.9 1,797.4 Other loans 31.6 1.6 3.1 227.7 264.0 Finance leases 8.5 9.5 21.7 36.1 75.8 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 301.9 341.1 696.5 800.8 2,140.3 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Within 1 year 15.7 12.0 Between 12 years 13.2 12.6 Between 25 years 27.9 27.0 After 5 years 38.6 46.7 Total minimum lease payment 95.4 98.3 Less amounts representing finance charges 21.0 22.5 Present value of minimum lease payment 74.4 75.8 All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
e Borrowings facilities The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the end of each year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at those dates, were as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Expiring in one year or less 1,254.6 1,252.6 Expiring in more than one but not more than two years 49.4 Expiring in more than two years 135.4 1,390.0 1,302.0 The available facilities comprise general working capital facilities at the Groups operating subsidiaries all of which were undrawn at the end of each year.
Ofthese facilities, US$1,122.7 million 2011 US$1,095.4 million are denominated in US dollars, US$33.3 million 2011 US$135.4 million in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos, US$22.3 million 2011 20.7 million in Euro and US$211.7 million 2011 US$50.5 million in Chilean pesos.
24 Trade and other payables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 361.1 274.6 361.1 274.6 Other creditors and accruals 349.1 229.3 7.4 9.3 356.5 238.6 710.2 503.9 7.4 9.3 717.6 513.2 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 32 days 2011 46 days.
Financial statements 13 130 0 Notes to the financial statements Total Total 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Categories of financial instruments Financial assets The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories Derivatives in designated defined in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, hedge accounting were asfollows: relationships 33.0 10.3 43.3 59.0 Available-for-sale 2012 2011 US$m US$m investments 45.9 45.9 36.5 Financial assets Debtors mark-to-market 1.8 1.8 4.3 Derivatives in designated hedge accounting Fair value through profit relationships 43.3 59.0 andloss 2,480.6 2,480.6 1,944.9 Available-for-sale investments 44.5 36.5 Financial liabilities Loans and receivables at amortised cost Derivatives in designated includingcash and cash equivalents 2,726.1 2,327.7 hedge accounting relationships 19.3 19.3 34.9 Fair value through profit and loss liquid investments 2,480.6 1,944.9 Creditors mark-to-market 2.4 2.4 20.1 Financial liabilities 2,526.5 13.1 10.3 2,549.9 1,989.7 Derivatives in designated hedge accounting There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
relationships 19.3 34.9 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,606.8 2,653.5 c Financial risk management 2,668.4 1,679.7 The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other b Fair value of financial instruments price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such follows: derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined management framework.
The Board has established the Risk Management with reference to quoted market prices: Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding risk management policies.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using are reported to the Risk Management Committee.
prices from observable current market transactions: and i Commodity price risk the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted copper cathodes output at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing cash flow analysis based on the applicable yield curve for the duration of adjustments which may be 30 to 120 days after delivery to the customer, the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and optional derivatives.
molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales which The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially remain open as to final pricing.
In 2012, sales of copper and molybdenum different from the carrying values presented for either 2012 or 2011. concentrate and copper cathodes represented 86.3% of Group turnover and therefore revenues and earnings depend significantly on LME and The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are realised copper prices.
measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: The Group uses futures, min-max instruments and options to manage its exposure to copper prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices volatility due to fluctuations in their fair value prior to the maturity of the unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than and copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given in quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or Note 25 d. Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : are given in Note 25 e. and level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 131 1 Commodity price sensitivity The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the investments is given in Note 22, and the currency exposure of the Groups copper price on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
borrowings is given in Note 23.
The effects of exchange gains and losses Amovement in the copper forward price as at the reporting date will affect included in the income statement are given in Note 7.
Exchange differences the final pricing adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income than the US dollar the most material of which is Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. statement.
A movement in the copper forward price will also affect the are taken to the currency translation reserve and are disclosed in the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 98. if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash flow Currency sensitivity hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
dollar Chilean peso exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by thereporting date.
10cents, net earnings would have decreased by US$9.6 million 2011 The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary decrease by US$13.2 million and hedging reserves in equity would have financial instruments including cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments, decreased by US$4.6 million 2011 decreased by US$14.3 million.
trade receivables, trade payables and borrowings.
The impact on equity is If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are 10cents, net earnings would have decreased by US$0.3 million 2011 effective designated cash flow hedges, and changes in the fair value of increase by US$3.9 million and hedging reserves in equity would have available-for-sale equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other increased by US$18.5million 2011 increased by US$24.0 million.
variables, such as interest rates, remain constant.
If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would reporting date, net earnings would have decreased by US$2.8 million 2011 impact revenue and earnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper decrease in US$7.1 million : and hedging reserves in equity would have price during the year would have affected net earnings by US$74.8 million decreased by US$3.7 million 2011 no additional impact on equity.
If the 2011 US$68.3 million and earnings per share by 7.6 cents 2011 US dollar had weakened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the 6.9cents, based on production volumes in 2012, without taking into reporting date, net earnings would have increased by US$3.4 million 2011 account the effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A US$1 increase in US$8.6 million : and hedging reserves in equity would have change in the average molybdenum price for the year would have affected increased by US$ 4.5 million.
2011 no additional impact on equity.
net earnings by US$11.8 million 2011 US$9.8 million, and earnings per share by 1.2 cents 2011 1.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2012, iii Interest rate risk and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
A US$100 The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at floating rates.
change in the average gold price for the year would have affected net Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Groups net finance income earnings by US$15.6 million 2011 US$10.3 million, and earnings per share orcost, and to a lesser extent on the value of financial assets and liabilities.
by 1.6 cents 2011 1.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2012, and TheGroup occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
interest rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 25 e. ii Currency risk The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23. isthe currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Interest rate sensitivity Operating costs are influenced by the countries in which the Groups The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest operations are based principally in Chile as well as those currencies in rates in relation to the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
After The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the effect on interest expense in the US dollar, the Chilean peso is the most important currency influencing respect of floating rate borrowings, and interest income in respect of cash costs and to a lesser extent sales.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the Given the significance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow presentational currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency TheUS dollar is also the currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, rates, remain constant.
although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, notably Chilean If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held pesos and sterling, to meet short-term operational and capital commitments as at the reporting date, net earnings would have increased by US$20.5 and dividend payments.
million 2011 increase in US$10.6 million and hedging reserves in equity When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts would have increased by US$3.5 million 2011 increase in US$6.6 million.
and currency swaps to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates in This does not include the effect on the income statement of changes in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group may also use thefair value of the Groups liquid investments relating to the underlying these instruments to reduce currency exposure on future transactions and investments in fixed income instruments.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the Group in the year are given in Note 25 e. Financial statements 13 132 2 Notes to the financial statements vi Credit risk 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, continued liquid investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
The credit risk on cash, cash iv Other price risk equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial instruments is The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available-for-sale equity limited as the counterparties are financial institutions with high credit ratings investments.
assigned by international credit agencies.
Equity price sensitivity All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity ofexternal credit ratings where available.
Credit is provided only within values of the available-for-sale financial assets held as at the reporting date.
setlimits, which are regularly reviewed.
If the value of the available-for-sale investments had increased by 10% as at Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
the reporting date, equity would have increased by US$4.6 million 2011 increase in US$3.7 million.
There would have been no impact on the The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements income statement.
represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented inthe balance sheet are net of allowances for any doubtful receivables.
v Cash flow risk The Groups future cash flows depend on a number of factors, including vii Liquidity risk commodity prices, production and sales levels, operating costs, capital The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves expenditure levels and financial income and costs.
Its cash flows are and financing facilities, through the review of forecast and actual cash flows.
therefore subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly described above as well as operational factors and input costs.
To reduce liquid investments, which typically can be accessed or liquidated within the risk of potential short-term disruptions to the supply of key inputs such 24hours, and in all cases not more than five days, while the majority of as electricity and sulphuric acid, the Group enters into mediumand borrowings comprise corporate loans at Los Pelambres, repayable over long-term supply contracts to help ensure continuity of supply.
Long-term periods of up to four years, corporate loans at El Tesoro repayable over electricity supply contracts are in place at each of the Groups mines.
These approximately three years, and corporate loans at Esperanza, repayable contracts are for a period of between one to two years, in most cases linking over approximately eight years.
the cost of electricity under the contract to the current cost of electricity on At the end of both 2012 and 2011, the Group was in a net cash position, the Chilean grids.
The Group seeks to lock in supply of sulphuric acid for asdisclosed in Note 33.
Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid future periods of a year or longer, with contract prices agreed in the latter investments are given in Note 22, while details of borrowings including part of the year, to be applied to purchases of acid in the following year.
thematurity profile are given in Note 23.
Details of undrawn committed Further information on production and sales levels and operating costs borrowing facilities are also given in Note 23. aregiven in the Operational review on pages 36 to 51.
The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments in respect of its financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
Thetable includes both interest and principal cash flows.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 133 3 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2012 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 187.7 185.6 363.8 888.0 1,625.1 Other loans including short-term loans 105.2 0.2 1.5 239.7 346.6 Finance leases 7.7 8.3 13.2 66.0 95.2 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 708.0 2.2 3.5 3.9 717.6 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 4.6 5.1 8.0 19.3 1,010.3 201.0 387.3 1,205.6 2,804.2 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2011 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Corporate loans 162.1 176.1 370.9 1,324.9 2,034.0 Other loans including short-term loans 31.7 0.1 1.7 230.9 264.4 Finance leases 2.7 2.7 5.3 50.2 60.9 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 502.2 0.9 6.6 3.5 513.2 Derivative financial instruments 7.2 9.7 8.3 9.7 34.9 706.0 189.6 393.0 1,619.2 2,907.8 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 US$160.334 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a fixed end date.
viii Capital risk management The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving the financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of net cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments less borrowings which was US$2,407.3 million at 31 December 2012 2011: US$1,139.7 million, as well as gross cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments which was US$4,296.5 million at 31December 2012 2011: US$3,280.0 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of demand and term deposits and managed funds investing inhigh quality, fixed income instruments.
Some of the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater than 90days.
These amounts are presented as liquid investments but are included in net cash for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has ariskaverse investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 23.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects on a case-by-case basis.
Financial statements 13 134 4 Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued d Embedded derivatives provisionally priced sales Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time ormonth of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price forspecified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months after shipment to the customer.
Under IFRS, both gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and totrade debtors in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end monthly average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
The mark-to-market adjustments to the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: Balance sheet net mark-to-market effect on debtors 2012 2011 US$m US$m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 1.8 18.0 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 0.4 0.1 Esperanza copper concentrate 0.5 4.3 Esperanza gold in concentrate 1.2 1.6 El Tesoro copper cathodes 0.2 0.2 Michilla copper cathodes 0.1 0.2 0.6 15.8 For the year ended 31 December 2012 Los Los Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres Esperanza Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 3,144.8 1,298.1 852.8 303.1 89.8 416.5 362.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 18.0 4.3 0.2 0.2 1.6 0.1 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 75.8 29.5 4.0 1.3 0.2 1.5 1.3 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 93.8 25.2 4.2 1.5 0.2 3.1 1.4 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 23.5 11.7 6.0 3.2 4.1 1.6 29.6 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 1.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.4 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 21.7 12.2 6.2 3.3 4.1 2.8 30.0 Total pricing adjustments 72.1 13.0 2.0 1.8 3.9 0.3 28.6 Realised losses gains on commodity derivatives 5.9 0.2 6.1 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 3,211.0 1,311.1 851.0 307.4 85.9 416.8 333.9 Tolling charges 119.7 62.1 0.2 1.3 19.2 Revenue net of tolling charges 3,091.3 1,249.0 851.0 307.4 85.7 415.5 314.7 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 135 5 For the year ended 31 December 2011 Los Los Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres Esperanza Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 3,620.7 721.5 836.6 379.8 64.2 248.6 337.4 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 124.3 4.1 1.4 0.3 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 116.2 3.5 1.0 0.5 0.3 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in thecurrent year 8.1 0.6 0.4 0.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 194.9 51.0 8.5 8.6 0.4 5.1 25.9 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 18.0 4.3 0.2 0.2 1.6 0.1 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 212.9 46.7 8.7 8.8 0.4 3.5 26.0 Total pricing adjustments 221.0 46.7 9.3 9.2 0.1 3.5 26.0 Realised gains losses on commodity derivatives 0.5 15.6 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 3,399.7 674.8 827.8 355.0 64.1 252.1 311.4 Tolling charges 143.8 28.4 0.2 0.8 17.6 Revenue net of tolling charges 3,255.9 646.4 827.8 355.0 63.9 251.3 293.8 i Copper concentrate The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to five months from shipmentdate.
At 31 December 2012 sales totalling 203,400 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 359.6 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 359.3 cents per pound.
At 31 December 2011 sales totalling 201,600 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 344.7 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 347.9 cents per pound.
ii Copper cathodes The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2012, sales totalling 13,400 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 358.9 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 360.2 cents per pound.
At 31 December 2011, sales totalling 12,600 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of 344.5 cents per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of 345.9 cents per pound.
iii Gold concentrates The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2012, sales totalling 42,400 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$1,676.9 per ounce compared with an average provisional invoice price of US$1,704.8 per ounce.
At 31 December 2011, sales totalling 15,300 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$1,536.0 per ounce compared with an average provisional invoice price of US$1,638.6 per ounce.
iv Molybdenum concentrate The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2012, sales totalling 1,700 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$11.4 per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of US$11.5 per pound.
At 31 December 2011, sales totalling 1,100 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of US$13.4 per pound compared with an average provisional invoice price of US$13.4 per pound.
Financial statements 13 136 6 Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued e Derivative financial instruments The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
Thetime value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
i Mark-to-market adjustments and income statement impact The balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments in respect of derivatives at the end of each year, and the total effect on the income statement for each year, are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2012 Total balance sheet impact of mark-toImpact on income statement Impact on reserves market adjustments Losses resulting from Gains losses resulting mark-to-market from mark-to-market adjustments adjustments Realised on hedging Total net on hedging Net financial losses gains instruments loss gain instruments asset liability 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Commodity derivatives Los Pelambres 5.9 5.9 El Tesoro 0.2 0.2 1.7 1.2 Michilla 6.1 12.4 6.3 20.0 26.0 Exchange derivatives Michilla 0.7 0.7 14.8 7.0 Interest derivatives Esperanza 13.7 13.7 8.9 18.1 Energy derivatives Los Pelambres 10.3 10.3 12.6 12.4 25.0 12.3 24.0 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 137 7 For the year ended 31 December 2011 Total balance sheet impact of mark-to-market Impact on income statement Impact on reserves adjustments Gains resulting from Gains losses resulting mark-to-market from mark-to-market adjustments adjustments Realised on hedging Total net on hedging Net financial gains losses instruments gain loss instruments asset liability 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Commodity derivatives El Tesoro 0.5 0.5 1.8 0.5 Michilla 15.6 49.1 33.5 86.4 58.4 Exchange derivatives Michilla 7.8 7.8 Esperanza 1.1 1.1 1.8 Corporate and other items 2.0 2.0 Railway and other transport services 2.4 2.4 Interest derivatives Esperanza 22.4 22.4 8.4 27.0 40.8 49.1 8.3 87.0 24.1 At 31 December 2011, US$1.1 million of the net realised losses on exchange derivatives relates to a net gain on hedging instruments at Esperanza where hedge accounting has been applied and is recognised in foreign exchange within net finance expense see Note 9.
The remaining US$4.4 million net losses on exchange derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied have been recognised in foreign exchange derivatives within net finance expense see Note 9.
The gains losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
The net financial asset liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Analysed between: Non-current assets 8.0 47.6 Current assets 35.3 11.4 Current liabilities 6.2 16.9 Non-current liabilities 13.1 18.0 24.0 24.1 ii Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the copper price.
a Min-max instruments At 31.12.12 For instruments held at 31.12.12 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Weighted Weighted production 1 January average average hedged 2013 Covering a floor cap tonnes Months period up to: US cents US cents Michilla 57,000 14.3 31-12-14 353.0 470.8 Between 1 January 2013 and 31 January 2013 nil tonnes of additional min-max instruments were entered into, and min-max instruments for 2,750 tonnes ofcopper production matured.
As a result up to 31 January 2013: i 3 3,000 tonnes of 2013 Group copper production had been hedged with min-max options of which 2,750 tonnes matured by 31 January 2013 and 30,250 tonnes remain outstanding and will mature by the end of the year.
ii 24,000 tonnes of 2014 Group copper production has been hedged with min-max options.
Financial statements 13 138 8 Notes to the financial statements 25 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued b Futures arbitrage The Group also has futures for copper production, to buy and sell copper production with the effect of swapping COMEX prices for LME prices without eliminating underlying market price exposure.
At 31.12.12 For instruments held at 31.12.12 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Weighted production 1 January Covering a average hedged 2013 period price tonnes Months up to: US cents El Tesoro 9,300 6.9 31-01-14 372.3 Exchange derivatives The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rates influencing operating costs and the fair value of non-US dollar denominated assets or liabilities.
Cross-currency swaps The Group has used cross-currency swaps to swap Chilean pesos for US dollars.
At 31.12.12 For instruments held at 31.12.12 Weighted Principal average value of remaining Weighted crossperiod from average currency 1 January Covering a rate swaps held 2013 period US$m Months up to: Ch$ US$ Michilla 63.0 5.0 16-09-13 542.3 Between 1 January 2013 and 31 January 2013 US$7.0 million of cross-currency swaps relating to Michilla matured.
Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest relating to the Esperanza financing for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2012 theGroup had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Actual Weighted notional average amount Maturity fixed rate Start date date US$m % Esperanza 15-02-2011 15-08-2018 395.2 3.372 The actual notional amount hedged depends upon the amount of the related debt currently outstanding.
Energy derivatives The Group entered into a derivative contract to hedge its exposure to the spot price energy.
Under the hedge the price of energy is fixed.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Energy consumption Contract Maturity hedged Price Start date date 000 MW USD Mwh Los Pelambres 01-01-2013 31-03-2013 259.2 130 Between 1 January 2013 and 31 January 2013 89,300MW of hedged energy consumption matured.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 139 9 26 Long-term incentive plan The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
In addition, Diego Hernndez, the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals, was additionally granted an exceptional, long-term award One-off Award following his appointment during 2012.
Details of the Awards Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary sharessubject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested and the market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable by participants in respect oftheawards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
Inordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reflect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
The One-off Award was granted for the same purpose as the awards granted under the LTIP but by reference to metrics which are specific to the participants role as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals.
Under the One-off Award, the participant has been granted conditional rights to receive acash payment by reference to the market value of the ordinary shares at vesting.
Vesting of the One-off Award will be as follows: Half of the One-off Award is subject both to certain performance conditions which are measured over a three-year period ending on 1 August 2015, thethree-year anniversary of the effective date of Mr. Hernndezs appointment and to continued employment.
That half of the award will normally vestonly after the end of the three-year performance period and only to the extent that those performance conditions are met.
The other half of the One-off Award is subject to continued employment and will normally vest on 1 August 2015.
Valuation process and accounting for the awards The fair value of the awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model are as follows: 2012 Weighted average share price USD 21.25 Expected volatility 18.45% Expected life of awards 3 years Risk-free rate 0.38% Expected dividend yields 1.64% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life of awards used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability and compliance of the objectives determined according to the characteristic of each plan.
The number of awards outstanding at the end of the period is as follows: Restricted Performance One-off Awards Awards Award Outstanding at 1 January 2013 203,923 203,923 Granted during the period 92,534 92,534 83,496 Cancelled during the period 62,183 62,183 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 234,274 234,274 83,496 Number of awards that have vested 74,142 The Group has recorded a liability for US$4.5 million at 31 December 2012 of which US$3.1 million is due after more than one year and total expenses ofUS$4.5 million for the year.
In 2011 the amount of the fair value of the awards which accrued between the grant date of 29 December 2011 and year end was estimated to be less than US$0.1 million.
Financial statements 14 140 0 Notes to the financial statements 27 Post-employment benefit obligations a Defined contribution schemes The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2012 was US$0.1 million 2011 US$0.1 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
b Severance provisions Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based onfinal salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in the income statement within operating cost.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2012 by Ernst & Young, a qualified actuary in Santiago-Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2012 2011 Average nominal discount rate 5.5% 5.3% Average rate of increase in salaries 2.8% 3.1% Average staff turnover 4.8% 4.6% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current service cost charge to operating profit 12.0 9.8 Actuarial gains losses charge to operating costs 9.8 5.5 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 3.3 3.9 Foreign exchange charge to other finance items 5.6 6.6 Total charge to income statement 30.7 1.6 Movement in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 61.2 68.0 Current service cost 12.0 9.8 Actuarial gains losses 9.8 5.5 Charge capitalised 0.4 Interest cost 3.3 3.9 Paid in the year 10.4 8.4 Foreign currency exchange difference 5.6 6.6 Balance at the end of the year 81.9 61.2 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 14 141 1 28 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during 2012 and 2011.
Temporary Accelerated differences capital on Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2011 392.7 41.3 248.4 17.7 21.7 52.9 586.3 Charge credit to income 71.7 20.0 91.5 29.1 3.4 50.4 21.9 Reclassification 7.9 7.9 Credit deferred in equity 16.9 16.9 At 1 January 2012 456.5 61.3 156.9 5.5 26.2 2.5 581.3 Charge credit to income 17 2.
1 149.9 Credit capitalised 0.3 0.3 Charge deferred in equity 0.4 0.
4 At 31 December 2012 628.9 87.0 150.9 13.5 26.4 1.4 731.3 The charge to the income statement of US$149.9million 2011 US$21.9 million credit includes a charge for foreign exchange differences of US$0.9 million 2011 includes a credit of US$2.8 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to doso.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2012 2011 US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 103.8 83.2 Deferred tax liabilities 835.1 664.5 Net deferred tax balances 731.3 581.3 At 31 December 2012, the Group had unused tax losses of US$217.6 million 2011 US$16.5 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the US$7.1 million of these losses in 2012 2011 US$14.9 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2012, the Group has deductible temporary differences of US$500.0 million 2011 nil for which no deferred tax assets were recognised inthe balance sheet.
The amount relates to a provision against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of the Antucoya project.
Further details inrespect of this are set out in Note 5.
At 31 December 2012, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilitieshave not been recognised was US$4.939.8 million 2011 US$4,551.7 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is likely that such differences will not reverse in theforeseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
Financial statements 14 142 2 Notes to the financial statements 29 Long-term provisions 2012 2011 US$m US$m Balance at the beginning of the year 321.1 244.4 Credit Charge to operating profit in the year 0.3 16.5 Release of discount to net interest in the year 9.1 7.4 Capitalised adjustment to provision 59.6 56.7 Utilised in year 6.0 2.6 Foreign currency exchange difference 1.1 1.3 Balance at the end of the year 384.6 321.1 Analysed as follows: Decommissioning and restoration 383.3 320.0 Termination of Water concession 1.3 1.1 Balance at the end of the year 384.6 321.1 a Decommissioning and restoration Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised over a period of up to 24 years based on current mine plans.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the closure provisions at Esperanza, El Tesoro, Michilla and Antucoya were increased by a total of US$57.1 million following detailed updated reviews, of which US$59.6 million related to an increase in decommissioning costs which was capitalised, and a net credit of US$2.5 million within operating profit relating to a decrease in restoration costs.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the closure provision at Los Pelambres was increased by a total of US$67.8 million following a detailed, updated review, of which US$56.7 million related to an increase in decommissioning costs which were capitalised, and a net charge of US$11.1 million within operating profit relating to an increase in restoration costs.
The capitalised provision balances are depreciated over the life of the corresponding asset or mine life if shorter.
b Termination of Water concession The provision for the termination of the Water concession relates to the provision for items of plant, property and equipment and working capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to the previous state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known as ESSAN at the end of the concession period, and is based on the net present value of the estimated value of those assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
30 Share capital and other reserves i Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2012 2011 2012 2011 Number Number US$m US$m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2012 2011 2012 2011 Number Number US$m US$m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,856,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2011 or 2012.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings in accordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 23a xiii.
ii Other reserves Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2011 and 2012 are included within the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 98.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 14 143 3 31 Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests of the Group are as follows: Capital Capital contribution Share of Change in increase from profit loss for ownership on nonnonthe financial interest in controlling controlling Share of Hedging At 01.01.12 year subsidiaries interest interest dividends reserves At 31.12.12 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Los Pelambres 953.1 645.9 622.6 4.1 980.5 Esperanza 220.0 175.3 2.3 397.6 El Tesoro 298.8 70.8 75.0 0.4 294.2 Michilla 50.4 2.5 3.9 1.8 50.8 Antucoya 150.6 18.2 16.8 115.6 Twin Metals 72.1 42.8 31.1 10.1 70.4 Railway and other transport services 16.8 0.5 1.0 16.3 Total 1,611.2 701.6 18.2 31.1 26.9 702.5 7.8 1,694.2 32 Other transactions a Exploration agreements The Group has entered into new exploration agreements during 2012 with: an agreement with Magnus Minerals Limited for generative exploration in Northern Finland: a strategic alliance with Manica Minerals Limited in relation to early stage exploration in Western Zambia: a Memorandum of Understanding with Chalcophile Resources Pty.
Ltd. in respect of a proposed farm-in over the Companys Clermont Copper Project incentral Queensland: a strategic exploration alliance with Laurentian Goldfields Ltd. for generative copper exploration in southern Quebec, Canada: a strategic exploration alliance with Lara Exploration Ltd. for generative copper exploration in Brazil.
Additionally, after evaluation of the results of the exploration activities, the Group decided in 2012 not to proceed further with the agreement with Eurasian Switzerland and La Zarza Spain.
b Sale of 30% interest in Minera Antucoya to Marubeni Corporation On 14 December 2011, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement with Marubeni Corporation Marubeni under which Marubeni would become a 30% partner in the Antucoya project and fund its 30% share of the development costs.
The transaction closed on 31 July 2012 resulting in US$359.6 million being received by the Group, comprising consideration of US$351.8 million base consideration of US$350 million plus interest to completion of US$1.8 million and pre-closing capital contributions attributable to Marubeni of US$7.8 million.
Financial statements 14 144 4 Notes to the financial statements 33 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement a Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2012 2011 US$m US$m Profit before tax 2,754.2 3,076.2 Depreciation and amortisation 494.2 431.7 Net profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.3 14.9 Provision against carrying value of assets 500.0 140.5 Net finance expense 90.9 21.2 Share of profit of associate 6.7 24.0 Increase in inventories 108.8 131.8 Decrease increase in debtors 34.6 1.4 Increase in creditors and provisions 51.1 25.2 Cash flows from operations 3,806.2 3,552.5 b Analysis of changes in net cash At 1.1.
11 Cash flows Other Exchange At 31.12.11 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 2,734.7 1,387.1 12.5 1,335.1 Liquid investments 806.9 1,138.0 1,944.9 Total cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,541.6 249.1 12.5 3,280.0 Bank borrowings due within one year 134.8 104.3 263.0 293.5 Bank borrowings due after one year 2,014.2 246.3 1,767.9 Finance leases due within one year 2.8 10.2 15.0 0.8 8.4 Finance leases due after one year 41.6 28.9 3.1 67.4 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 Total borrowings 2,196.5 114.5 60.6 2.3 2,140.3 c Net cash 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 4,296.5 3,280.0 Total borrowings 1,889.2 2,140.3 Net cash 2,407.3 1,139.7 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 14 145 5 Aguas fide Antofagasta will also be required to transfer to ECONSSA any 34 Operating lease arrangements tangible fixed assets and working capital items under its ownership at the end of the 30-year concession period.
A provision for the termination of the 2012 2011 Water concession has been created for the fixed assets and working capital US$m US$m items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to Minimum lease payments under operating leases ECONSSA at the end of the concession period.
The provision is based on recognised inincome for the year 20.5 18.0 the net present value of the estimated value of these assets and liabilities in At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for existence at the end of the concession.
The release of the discount applied future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, in establishing the net present value of future costs is charged to the income which fall due as follows: statement in each accounting period and is disclosed as a financing cost.
Further details of this provision are given in Note 29 b.
2012 2011 The Chilean Water Regulator Superintendencia fide Servicios Sanitarios sets US$m US$m domestic tariffs every five years following a regulatory review including Within one year 16.7 13.9 representations from the operator of the concession.
The last regulatory In the second to fifth years inclusive 20.2 24.7 review was completed during 2011 and there was not significant variation After five years 5.2 5.4 compared to the last regulatory review in 2006.
42.1 44.0 36 Exchange rates in US dollars Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating subsidiaries of the Group.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into dollars and sterling at the period end rates of exchange.
35 Concession arrangements Results denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into dollars at the average rate for each period.
In 2003, the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled 2012 2011 by the state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly know as ESSAN.
The US$1.6163 1: US$1.5509 1: concession consists of two businesses, one an unregulated business Year end rates US$1 Ch$480 US$1 Ch$519 supplying mines and other industrial users and the other a regulated water US$1.5835 1: US$1.6033 1: business supplying domestic customers.
The concession contract was Average rates US$1 Ch$487 US$1 Ch$483 signed and control of the assets and operation assumed on 29 December 2003 by Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
Under the concession contract, certain assets and liabilities mainly certain specific tangible fixed assets and working capital items were transferred to Aguas fide Antofagasta by way of sale.
Other assets mainly water rights and infrastructure were transferred by way of concession and will devolve to ECONSSA at the end of the 30-year period.
Financial statements 14 146 6 Notes to the financial statements c Compaa Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A.
37 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related As explained in Note 17, the Group acquired a 30% interest in Antofagasta parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed Terminal Internacional S. A. ATI on 16 December 2004, which has been inthisnote.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are treated in these financial statements as an associate.
Group received a dividend of US$ 1.1million from ATI 2011 US$1.2 million.
The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties d Antomin Limited, Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin who are not members of the Group are set out below.
The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of Quienco S. A. Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial copper exploration properties.
The Group originally acquired its 51% interest conglomerate, the shares of which are traded on the Santiago Stock in these properties for a nominal consideration from Mineralinvest Exchange.
The Group and Quienco are both under the control of the Establishment, a company controlled by the Luksic family, which continues Luksic family, and three Directors of the Company, Jean-Paul Luksic, to hold the remaining 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
Antofagasta Guillermo Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez, are also directors of Quienco.
has the exclusive right to acquire at fair value under certain conditions the The following material transactions took place between the Group and shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors, or the theQuienco group of companies, all of which were on normal commercial underlying properties, for a period of five years from August 2008.
The terms: Group has also committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the the Group sold copper cathodes during the year for US$11.1 million 2011 properties held by these entities.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 US$0.7 million to Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
The balance the Group incurred US$16.5 million year ended 31 December 2011 due from Madeco at the end of the year was less than US$0.1 million US$1.1 million of exploration work at these properties.
2011 US$0.1 million : the Group bought copper wire from Madeco for less than US$0.3 million e Tethyan Copper Company Limited 2011 less than US$0.1 million : As explained in Note 18 a, during 2006 the Group entered into a joint the Group earned interest income of US$2.4 million 2011 US$0.5 venture agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick Gold to million during the year on deposits with Banco fide Chile S. A. a subsidiary establish a 50:50 joint venture over Tethyan Copper Company Limiteds of Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end of the year were US$83.4 Tethyan mineral interests in Pakistan.
million 2011 US$23.7 million : During the year the Group contributed US$9.9 million 2011 US$9.7 million the Group earned interest income of US$0.7 million 2011 US$0.2 to Tethyan, to provide funds for Tethyans legal advisory and administrative million during the year on investments with BanChile Corredores fide Bolsa costs.
The balance due from Tethyan to Group companies at the end of the S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Investment balances at the end of the year year was US$0.1 million 2011 US$0.1 million.
Details of amounts relating were US$35.9 million 2011 US$5.7 million : to Tethyan included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Group bought fuel from ENEX S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco of under the proportionate consolidation method are set out in Note 18 a. US$74.6 million 2011 US$39.3 million.
The balance due from ENEX S. A. at the end of the year was US$ 1.7 million 2011 US$3.6 million.
f Energa Andina S. A. the Group has contract shipping services from Compaia Sudamericana In October 2008 Energa Andina S. A. was formed as a vehicle for the fide Vapores S. A. subsidiary of Quienco, of US$ 6.6 million 2011 exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
Initially, the company was 60% owned by the Group and 40% owned by Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP of Chile.
On 6 May 2011 ENAP sold b Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico S. A. its 40% shareholding in Energa Andina to Origin Energy Geothermal Chile In 2012, the Group leased office space on normal commercial terms from Limitada for US$12.0 million.
The balance due from Energa Andina S. A. to Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico S. A. a company controlled by the Luksic the Group at 31 December 2012 was less than US$0.1 million 31 December family, at a cost of US$ 0.7 million 2011 US$0.7 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group contributed US$14.5 million to Energa Andina year ended December 2011 US$9.0 million.
O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re ev viie ew w O Op pe er rat atiio on na all r re ev viie ew w F Fiina nan ncia ciall r re ev vie iew w G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e F Fina inan nci cial al s st ta at te emen ment ts s O Ot the her r i in nffor orma mat tiion on Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 14 147 7 g Minera Cerro Centinela S. A.
38 Litigation Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. Centinela, an entity ultimately controlled by Tethyan Copper Company Limited the Luksic family, has an interest of 7.973% in Minera Michilla S. A. Michilla, a shareholding it has held since Michilla was created through the merger of Mining lease application and international arbitration two predecessor companies on 31 December 1993.
During the year ended The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
Limited 31 December 2012 Michilla paid dividends of US$1.2 million year ended Tethyan Australia, its joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation 31December 2011 US$ 1.6 million to Centinela.
Tethyan Australia is seeking, with and through its wholly-owned subsidiary Tethyan Copper Company Pakistan Private Limited Tethyan h Directors and other key management personnel Pakistan and, together with Tethyan Australia, Tethyan to develop the Reko Diq copper-gold deposit in the Chagai Hills district of the province Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests are given in ofBalochistan in south-west Pakistan.
Tethyan held a 75% interest in theRemuneration Report on pages 84 to 88.
Information relating to the anexploration licence encompassing the Reko Diq deposit, with the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is government of Balochistan the provincial authority holding the remaining givenin Note 8.
25% interest, resulting in an effective interest for the Antofagasta group of37.5%.
The relationship between Tethyan and the government of i Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Balochistan in respect of their interests in the project is governed by The Group has acquired a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. from theChagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture Agreement CHEJVA.
GDF SUEZ, which is accounted for as an associate.
During the year ended Tethyan completed the feasibility study in respect of the project and submitted 31 December 2010 there was a US$57.2 million capital reduction in this to the government of Balochistan in August 2010.
The balance due from Inversiones Hornitos to the Tethyan submitted an application to the government of Balochistan in Group at 31 December 2012 was nil year ended 31 December 2011 accordance with the Balochistan Mineral Rules for a mining lease.
The Group paid US$129 million year ended 15November 2011, Tethyan was notified by the government of Balochistan 31December 2011 US$70.6 million to Inversiones Hornitos in relation that the government had rejected the application.
tothe energy supply contract at Esperanza.
Tethyan is pursuing two international arbitrations in order to protect its legal j Sale of 30% interest in Minera Antucoya to Marubeni rights: one against the government of Pakistan with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes ICSID asserting breaches of the Corporation Bilateral Investment Treaty between Australia where Tethyan Australia On 14 December 2011, the Group signed a Memorandum of Understanding isincorporated and Pakistan, and another against the government of with Marubeni Corporation Marubeni pursuant to which Marubeni would Balochistan with the International Chamber of Commerce ICC, asserting become a 30% partner in the Antucoya project for consideration totalling breaches of the CHEJVA.
US$350 million and a commitment to fund its pro rata share of the Tethyan believes strongly that it has complied with the requirements of the development costs of the project.
This transaction closed on 31 July 2012 Balochistan Mineral Rules and the CHEJVA and is entitled to the grant of the resulting in US$359.6 million being received by the Group, comprising mining lease.
consideration of US$351.8 million base consideration of US$350 million plus interest to completion of US$1.8 million and pre-closing capital contributions attributable to Marubeni of US$7.8 million.
Marubeni holds a 30% interest in Minera Esperanza and Minera El Tesoro.
Marubeni is a related party of the Group for the purposes of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority as it holds a significant interest in these two subsidiaries of the Group.
Further details of this transaction are set out in Note 23. k El Arrayan In December 2011, the Group exercised an option to acquire a 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A. El Arrayan for a consideration of US$4.5 million, and will be responsible for its share of development costs.
During 2012 the Group contributed US$19.6 million to Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A.
This interest is accounted for as an associate.
El Arrayan will develop and operate a 115MW wind power plant.
Financial statements 14 148 8 Notes to the financial statements 38 Litigation continued 39 Contingent liabilities Supreme Court hearings Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries is subject to various claims which arise in On 26 June 2007 the High Court of Balochistan at Quetta dismissed a petition the ordinary course of business.
No provision has been made in the financial which had sought to declare that the Chagai Hills Exploration Joint Venture of statements and none of these claims are currently expected to result in any 1993 and the exploration licences granted to Tethyan were null and void.
It material loss to the Group.
Details of the principal claim in existence either also overturned an injunction passed earlier by the Court.
The constitutional during or at the end of the year and the current status is set out below: petition had been filed before the High Court in November 2006 and was Minera Los Pelambres and Antofagasta Minerals S. A. directed at the government of Pakistan and the government of Balochistan, although it also named, among others, Tethyan Pakistan as a respondent.
mining properties The petitioners filed a Civil Petition for Leave to Appeal CPLA against the A number of mining concession applications have been submitted by third High Court judgement.
The Supreme Court has been concurrently hearing parties which overlap mining concessions held by Minera Los Pelambres the CPLA as well as some new constitutional petitions which were filed in and Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
Both companies have instigated legal action late 2010 and early 2011.
These new petitions relate primarily to whether against those third parties in order to protect their legal rights over those it is in the public interest for Tethyan to receive a mining lease.
The Group believes these claims do not affect the On 3 February 2011, the Supreme Court issued an interim order providing, current mining plan, do not have any merit and that the possibility of any among other things, that the government of Balochistan could not take any significant adverse impact to the Group as a result of these actions decision in respect of the grant or other disposition of a mining lease until isremote.
matters before the Supreme Court were decided.
On 25 May 2011, the Supreme Court recalled this interim order and instructed the government of Los Pelambres Mauro tailings dam Balochistan to proceed to expeditiously decide on Tethyans application for As previously announced, during 2008 Los Pelambres entered into binding the mining lease transparently and fairly in accordance with the law and the settlements in respect of litigation relating to the Mauro tailings dam.
The Supreme Court also decided that the petitions should remain December 2008, Los Pelambres became aware of further legal proceedings pending until the decision on the application by the competent authority.
which had been initiated in first instance courts in Santiago and Los Vilos by Following the government of Balochistans rejection of Tethyans mining certain members of the Caimanes community located near the Mauro valley.
lease application, the Supreme Court resumed hearings in respect of these These claims, some of which have already been rejected by the relevant matters: on 7 January 2013 the Supreme Court issued a short order courts, sought to prevent the operation of the Mauro tailings dam.
upholding the CPLA and finding in favour of the constitutional petitioners, LosPelambres is continuing to take necessary steps to protect its position.
and declaring the CHEJVA illegal and void.
Tethyan is in the process Two claims were filed with the Court of Appeals in La Serena in 2012 in ofevaluating this judgement.
No date has been set for the issue of the respect of the Mauro tailings dam.
These follow several previous detailed judgement.
unsuccessful related claims made by the same claimants in different courts Tethyan believes strongly that the CHEJVA is a valid agreement between in the past four years.
The first claim alleged that the tailings dam was itself and the government of Balochistan, and that Tethyan has complied affecting the quality of the water of the Caimanes community located near with the requirements of the Balochistan Mineral Rules and the CHEJVA and the Mauro valley.
The Court of Appeal of La Serena rejected this claim and is entitled to the grant of the mining lease.
However, given the uncertainty inJanuary 2013 the decision was upheld by the Supreme Court of Chile on caused by the government of Balochistans rejection of Tethyans mining appeal, thereby confirming the Groups view that the operation of the Mauro lease application, the Group recognised a provision against the US$140.5 dam complies with applicable Chilean and international environmental million carrying value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment standards without affecting water quality of the Pupio river.
The second relating to the project in 2011. claim alleged that the Mauro tailings dam posed a danger to the population of Caimanes because it would not resist an earthquake of certain magnitudes, and that indications of leaks could threatened the dams stability.
The Court of Appeal of La Serena also rejected this claim.
The claimants have appealed this decision to the Supreme Court of Chile where a decision is pending.
40 Ultimate Parent Company The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the interest of  and the E. Abaroa Foundation aregiven in theDirectors report.
