Other information 156 Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates At 31 December 2012 An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which Introduction tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a reasonable level of confidence.
It is based The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in this report on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through comply with the requirements of the Australasian Code for Reporting of appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, Exploration Results, Mineral Resources andOre Reserves 2004 edition workings and drill holes.
The locations are too widely or inappropriately theJORC Code which has been used by the Group as minimum standard spaced to confirm geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely for the preparation and disclosure of the information contained herein.
enough for continuity to be assumed.
Thedefinitions andcategories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources areset out below.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared by or content can be estimated with a high level ofconfidence.
It is based on under the supervision ofCompetent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered The Competent Persons have sufficient experience relevant to the style of through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and totheactivity pits, workings and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to which they are undertaking.
The Competent Persons consent to the confirm geological and grade continuity.
inclusion in thisreport of the matters based on their information in the form An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or and context in which it appears.
The Competent Person for Exploration Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for Results and Mineral Resources except for the Twin Metals Mineral Resource losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate Estimate is Guillermo Muller CP, Chile, Manager of Mineral Resource assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration Evaluation for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Competent Person for the of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, TwinMetals Mineral Resource Estimate is Dr. Harry Parker, SME, Registered marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These Member, Technical Director of AMEC.
The Competent Person for Ore assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could Reserves is Murray Canfield P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical Manager Operations reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing for Antofagasta Minerals S. A. confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive programme of audits aimed atproviding assurance in respect of ore A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, reserves and mineral resources estimates.
The audits areconducted by and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes suitably qualified Competent Persons from within a particular division, diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the another division of the Company or from independent consultants.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full reserves mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and and resources, with the Groups attributable share for each mine shown in governmental factors.
Theseassessments demonstrate at the time of the Attributable Tonnage column.
The Groups economic interest in each reporting that extraction could .
mine is disclosed in the notes following the estimates on pages 157to160.
The totals in the table may include some small apparent differences as the A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured specificindividual figures have not been rounded.
Itincludes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration ofand modification Definitions and categories of ore reserves by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, and mineral resources environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time ofreporting that extraction could reasonably A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic bejustified.
economic interest inoron the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects foreventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
The cut-off grade applied to resources estimates thedetermination of ore reserves is 0.20% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specific cut-off grades foreach mine and using a long-term copper price Ore reserves increased by a net 131 million tonnes after depletion of 30 of275 cents per pound 240 cents per pound in2011, US$12.00 per pound million tonnes.
Thisisaresult of a redesign of the final pit, incorporating molybdenum US$12.00 per pound in 2011 and US$1,100 per gold ounce thefirst update to resources, prices and costs since the feasibility study.
US$900 per gold ounce in 2011, unless otherwise noted.
These same Mineral resources decreased by a net 408 million tonnes, after depletion.
values have been used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where Mineral resources have been limited to those contained within an unappropriate.
smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 330 cents per pound In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation that 300 cents per pound in 2011.
The optimised pit shell used to limit mineral has reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction JORC code resources is based on an integrated block model that estimates the the resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimised based on Esperanza and Esperanza Sur mineral deposits together in one model.
measured, indicated and inferred resources and considering a copper Thedecrease in mineral resources is mostly due to increased mining and priceof 330cents per pound 300 cents per pound in 2011.
Mineralisation processing costs used in the pit optimisation, which have been updated to estimated outside these pit shells is not included in the resource figures be consistent with current operating costs.
These increased operating costs unless they can expect to be exploited byunderground methods.
more than offset the increase in copper price used for the 2012 mineral resource estimate.
A portion of the decrease in mineral resources is due to a Los Pelambres the application of more strict estimation criteria, which for 2012 is limited to interpolated inferred resources and excludes extrapolated inferred resources Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the from the estimate.
determination of ore reserves and mineral resources is 0.35% copper.
For 2012 the mineral resource model has been updated with 19 in-fill drill holes c El Tesoro for a total of 8,117 metres.
El Tesoro is 70% owned by the Group.
The ore reserves and mineral The net increase of 9 million tonnes after depletion of 71 million tonnes in resources are made up of the El Tesoro Central, Tesoro North-East and ore reserves is mainlyrelated to the inclusion in the database of the in-fill Mirador deposits, which are processed by heap-leaching, and the drillholes, which have lifted some inferredresources into the indicated or Run-of-Mine ROM Oxide ore reserves and mineral resources from the measured category.
The final pit design has not been modified significantly Esperanza Mine, located five kilometres south-east of El Tesoro.
An for the 2012 ore reserve estimate.
agreement was entered into in 2008 whereby the Esperanza Oxide mineral Mineral resources decreased overall by a net 402 million tonnes, after resources were purchased by ElTesoro for a one-time payment.
Mineral resources in the measured and indicated categories delivers the ROM ore released during the pre-stripping and operating increased by54million tonnes while resources in the inferred category phases of the Esperanza operation decreased by 456 million tonnes.
Mineral resources are defined as those to a permanent leach pad constructed and operated by the El Tesoro mine.
contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell, using all resource Atthe request of El Tesoro, some of the higher grade Esperanza oxide ore categories and a copper price of 330 cents per pound 300 cents per issentdirectly to the ElTesoro heap-leach pads.
pound in 2011, discounting those resources falling within the Las Tigresas The cut-off grade used for estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources concessions which are 100% owned by the Group, not directly byLos for the Tesoro Central and Tesoro North-East deposits is 0.41% copper.
Pelambres, adjacent to the concessions owned by Los Pelambres.
The Thecut-off grade used for estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources decrease in mineral resources is mostly due to increased mining and for the Mirador deposit is 0.30% copper, reflecting higher recoveries and processing costs used in the pit optimisation, which have been updated to lower acid consumption for the Mirador deposit.
be consistent with current operating costs.
These increased operating costs more than offset the increase in copper price used for the 2012 mineral Ore reserves for the El Tesoro open pits decreased by 6.4 million tonnes, resource estimate.
Ore reserves for the Esperanza oxides increased by a marginal 0.6 million tonnes.
Total mineral resources for the El Tesoro open pits decreased by a net 3.9million tonnes.
Thisisacombination of depletion partially offset by an increase in the copper price used tooptimise the resource pits.
Mineral resources are defined as those contained within an un-smoothed, optimisedpit shell using all resource categories and a copper price of 330cents perpound 300 cents per pound in 2011.
The cut-off grade used for estimation of both ore reserves and mineral resources for the El Tesoro ROM Esperanza Oxides is 0.20% copper.
During the year, 8.6 million tonnes of oxide mineral resources were extracted from the Esperanza pit, of which 2.1 million tonnes of higher grade oxide ore were placed in stockpile for future use in the El Tesoro heap-leach.
A total of71.3 million tonnes are in the ROM leach pads and have been partially leached, and another 15.2million tonnes have been delivered to the ROM leach pads or ROM stockpiles and have not yet beenput under leach.
Other information 162 Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates At 31 December 2012 f Esperanza Sur ex-Telegrafo Notes to ore reserves and mineral resources Esperanza Sur is owned 70% by the Group and is adjacent to the estimates continued Esperanza deposit.
A cut-off grade of0.15% copper is used for determining mineral resources.
d Antucoya Total mineral resources have decreased by 702 million tonnes with the Antucoya is 70% owned by the Group.
In December 2012 an announcement measured and indicated categories increasing by 16 million tonnes oxides was made that the construction of the project has been suspended.
Mineral resources have been limited to those contained Alternatives for continuing with the project or placing it on indefinite within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 330 cents suspension are currently under review.
per pound 300 cents per pound in 2011.
As with Esperanza Sulphides, the decrease in mineral resources is mostly due to increased mining and The cut-off grade for mineral resources is 0.15%.
processing costs used in the pit optimisation, which have been updated to Ore reserves for Antucoya were originally published on 14 December 2011 be consistent with current operating costs.
These increased operating costs and are based onacut-off grade of 0.21% copper and have remained the more than offset the increase in copper price used for the 2012 mineral same for 2012. resource estimate.
A portion of the decrease in mineral resources is due to Mineral resources for Antucoya have remained the same for 2012. the application of more strict estimation criteria, which for 2012 is limited to interpolated inferred resources and excludes extrapolated inferred resources e Michilla from the estimate.
Michilla is 74.2% owned by the Group and its operations comprise open pit g Encuentro ex-Caracoles mines, underground mines and other workings.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves and mineral resources is 0.36 to 0.40% Encuentro is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the copper for open pits, 1.2% copper for the Estefana underground mine and determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.15% 0.8% copper for other workings.
Ore reserves increased by a net 1.1 million tonnes, after depletion of 3.2 Total mineral resources have increased by 47 million tonnes, due to the million tonnes.
Plant feed was 4.2 million tonnes, with the difference coming increase in price used for determining mineral resources, more than from additional ore not considered in the mine plan.
The increase in ore compensating for an increase in cost inputs.
Mineral resources include reserves is due to the incorporation of another small stage in the Lince pit those contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper Stage 15a.
price of 330 cents per pound 300 cents per pound in 2011.
The criteria for measured resources changed during the year, based on conditional Mineral resources have increased marginally by a net 0.4 million tonnes, simulation studies, resulting in a re-categorisation of some indicated after depletion.
Additional resources are related to the increase in mineral resources to measured resources.
resources in third-party operated satellite deposits.
Theopen pit mineral resource estimates include those resources contained within an un-smoothed, h Polo Sur optimised pit shell using all resource categories and a copper price of 330cents per pound 300 cents per pound in 2011 and applying a cut-off Polo Sur is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the grade of 0.40% copper within the pit shell.
The mineral resources estimate determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.20% for Michilla includes several resource block models, incorporating the copper.
In2011 Polo Sur was included in Other Mineral Inventory with a multiple deposits on the property.
The Lince Estefana resource model range of 460 to 632 million tonnes and 0.45 to 0.37% copper.
update made significant advances during 2012 and will be completed in 2013.
Mineral resources include those contained within an un-smoothed, Not included in the mineral resources estimate is the spent ore deposited on optimised pit shell using a copper price of 330 cents per pound.
This is material that is removed from the dynamic heap-leach pads after theprimary leach cycle is completed.
Since the beginning of the Lince i Twin Metals Minnesota LLC project in 1992 between 65 and 70 million tonnes of spent ore has been The Group has a 40% controlling interest in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC deposited in a spent ore dump, adjacent to the dynamic leach pads.
The Twin Metals, with the remaining 60% held by Duluth Metals Limited grade of this material is expected to be in the range of 0.20 to 0.30% copper.
Twin Metals was formed in 2010 as the operating company for During 2012, 7.9million tonnes of spent ore at a grade of 0.23% was theNokomis project, a  group metal PGM deposit processed through the secondary leaching process.
2.1 million tonnes of located in north-eastern Minnesota, USA.
In August 2011 Twin Metals this material was from thedynamic leach pads re-leaching of ore processed completed the acquisition of the assets formerly held by Franconia Minerals during 2012 and 5.7 million tonnes from the existing spent ore dump.
Franconias principal asset was a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture BLJV which holds the Birch Lake, Maturi andSpruce Road  and palladium deposits that are contiguous to TwinMetals existing deposits.
Franconia announced in November 2010 itsintention to increase its ownership interest to 82% under the terms of the BLJV agreement.
The Maturi deposit and the nearby Birch Lake deposit are the subjects of an ongoing pre-feasibility study being undertaken by Twin Metals.
The Spruce Road deposit is to the north of Maturi and is currently not part of the pre-feasibility study programme.
The engineering firm AMEC was contracted in 2011 to consolidate all of the previous and current drilling information to develop updated and consolidated geological models and amineral resource estimate tosupport the pre-feasibility study.
Twin Metals and its predecessor, Duluth conducted extensive exploration programmes on the project in 2010, 2011 and2012.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 163 The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.3% Tethyan has initiated two international arbitrations in order toprotect its legal copper, which when combined with credits from nickel, platinum, palladium rights.
Tethyan strongly believes that it has complied with the requirements and gold, is deemed appropriate for an underground operation.
In the oftheBalochistan Mineral Rules and the CHEJVA and is entitled to the grant resource table TPM Total Precious Metals refers to the sum of platinum, of the mining lease.
Further details are given in Note 38. palladium and gold values in grams per tonne.
The TPM value of 0.57 for the The Reko Diq mineral resources have been removed from the table, Maturi resource estimate is made up of 0.15 g tonne platinum, 0.34 g tonne consistent with Note 38 to the financial statements.
The TPM value of 0.70 for the Birch Lake resource estimate is made up of 0.19 g tonne platinum, 0.41 g tonne k Other mineral inventory palladium and 0.10 g tonne gold.
The Spruce Road resource estimate In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests doesnot include TPM values as they were not assayed for.
inother deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them The Competent Person for the Twin Metals Mineral Resource Estimate is containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration Dr. Harry Parker, SME, Registered Member, Technical Director of AMEC.
or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade ofeach of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient j Reko Diq exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain As explained in Note 38 to the financial statements, the Group has held an if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
effective 37.5% interestin the Reko Diq copper-gold deposit in the Chagai These include: Hills district of the province of Balochistan in south-west Pakistan through i In the Centinela Mining District itsjoint venture entity Tethyan Copper Company Pty.
On 15 February 2011, Tethyan submitted an application to the government In the Centinela Mining District ex-Sierra Gorda the Group has two of Balochistan in accordance with the Balochistan Mineral Rules for a mining operations El Tesoro and Esperanza and others in exploration or under lease.
Tethyans exploration licence had been due to expire on 19 February study, such as: Llano-Paleocanal 70% owned by the Group : Mirador 2011, but the submission of the mining lease application suspended the Sulphides 100% owned by the Group : and Penacho Blanco ex-Centinela, expiry of the exploration licence as to the mining area covered in the 51% owned by the Group.
The Mineral Inventory of these deposits application.
On 15 November 2011, Tethyan was notified by the government incorporating both oxide and sulphide mineralisation is estimated to be of Balochistan that the government had rejected the application.
On inthe range of 187 to 388 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.6 to 7January 2013 the Pakistan Supreme Court issued a short order apparently 0.4% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its invalidating the agreements related to the Reko Diq joint venture.
associated tonnage and grade ranges, the number of drillholes and associated metres drilled, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Llano Paleocanal 90 140 0.51 0.41 79 17,100 70.0 Mirador Sulphides 37 148 0.39 0.28 98 38,264 100.0 Penacho Blanco ex-Centinela 60 100 0.76 0.63 36 9,900 51.0 Total 187 388 0.57 0.42 213 65,264 ii In the Michilla District In the Michilla District there are several satellite deposits to the main Michilla ore body that have been included in the Mineral Resources Table.
However, there is at least one other deposit within a potentially economic radius of the Michilla mine: Rencoret, owned 100% by the Group.
Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 100.0 Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 Other information 164 Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates At 31 December 2012 Notes to ore reserves and mineral resources estimates continued iii In the El Abra District The Group has two mineral deposits within a few kilometres of the El Abra ore body, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
Conchi is aporphyry copper mineral deposit with oxide and sulphide mineralisation, while Brujulina is an exotic-style mineral deposit oxide mineralisation only.
TheMineral Inventory of these deposits is estimated to be in the range of 700 to 930 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.6 to 0.5% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Conchi 650 850 0.59 0.52 125 33,766 51.0 Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 700 930 0.59 0.52 284 49,066 l Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors Limited, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include but are not limited to Penacho Blanco ex-Centinela see Note k i above and Conchi and Brujulina see Note k iii above.
Theremaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
The Group has the exclusive right to acquire, at fair value under certain conditions, the shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin Investors, or the underlying properties, for a period offive years from August 2008.
The Group also has committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the properties held by these two entities.
Further details are set out in Note 37 d to the financial statements.
