N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 03 DESIGNS ON THE HIGH STREET and Bury.
Were number one Remember store assistants?
in the online and mail order We now have style advisors, market in our sector, and we highly trained to advise on our want to see similar success out ranges and on t. nd remember there on the high street, where cubicles with a curtain?
Our a large proportion of the pluschanging booths are more size market still shops.
thoughtfully and spaciously designed with an anteroom But our sights are set higher separate from the rest of than just more stores.
focused on using the high street as another strand in our multiPerhaps the most exciting part channel offer, and an extra boost of our stores, technologically for our overall brand strength.
speaking, are the Magic Mirrors.
These fantastic innovations mean So much in store customers can get a second Its not just city analysts, and or third, fourth or fifth opinion fashion and retail journalists that on their outts by sending love our new Simply Be stores, photos out to social media sites launched last year in Liverpool including Facebook and Twitter.
04 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 these stores, well look at the Claire Sweeney is our ambassador Best of both worlds potential for more.
High & Mighty for Fashion World and rlene Having great reasons to shop stores are also multiplying, with Phillips for Marisota.
Endorsements both online and in-stores means another four stores to add to the like these increase our brands customers are doing just that we already have.
credibility, generate awareness shopping in both places rather and help position us where we than one or the other, as well Star turns want to be: at the front of as making Simply Be known Big names are still big business peoples minds today, and to greater numbers of high for us.
Our new Grazia range tomorrow too.
and a collection designed by the celebrated Zandra Rhodes Were rolling out a further are performing well.
Freddie five Simply Be stores in Flintoff has designed a range in Doncaster, Teesside, for Jacamo, and the Gok Wan the Metro Centre in Gateshead, lingerie range continues to be Leicester, plus Manchester a tremendous success.
Once weve opened N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 05
