Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder electronic communications Share dealing service By registering for electronic communications you can help A telephone and internet share dealing service, which us to reduce print, paper and postage costs.
Log on to provides a simple way to buy and sell shares, is available www.
co. uk if you would like to: through our Registrar, Equiniti.
For further information log on to shareview.
co. uk dealing or telephone t register your e-mail so that you are able to access future 0845 603 7037 or 44 121 415 7560 from overseas.
shareholder information, including the Annual Report Calls to this number are charged by BT at the local rate.
and Accounts electronically: t check the balance of your shareholding: Company website The Company website at nationalexpressgroup.
com t set up a dividend mandate online: has information about the Group, including press releases, share price data and copies of the half year results t change your registered postal address or your dividend and annual report and accounts as well as corporate mandate details: or responsibility reporting.
The Company no longer publishes t submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
the half year results in hard copy.
These will now only be available via the website.
To sign up for the first time you should click on Register and follow the simple instructions you will need your ShareGift shareholder reference number from your share certicate ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme or dividend voucher or any other correspondence sent to administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered you by Equiniti Limited.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which makes Dividends paid direct to your bank account it uneconomic to sell them, can donate the shares to Having dividends paid direct to your bank account has the ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a following advantages: wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift t avoids the risk of cheques being lost and incurring a can be obtained from its website at sharegift.
org replacement fee: and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from nationalexpressgroup.
t saves you time in presenting the cheque for payment: and Unclaimed assets register t the dividend is credited to your account on the payment The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets date.
Register UAR which provides a search facility for Consolidated Tax Vouchers shareholdings and other financial assets that may have The Company currently issues tax vouchers to shareholders been forgotten.
For further information contact UAR by with every dividend payment.
Following a review of this email at uarenquiries@uk.
com, Tel:0844 481 8180 procedure, the Company will now issue a Consolidated or visit uar.
Tax Voucher CTV once a year to all shareholders save for corporate and institutional shareholders.
The first CTV will be despatched with the 2014 AGM mailing and will contain the tax and payment information for dividends paid during the tax year 2013 2014.
To set up a new dividend mandate please log on to shareview.
co. uk or contact the Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Shareholder helpline number: 0871 384 2152 or 44 121 415 7047 from overseas.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
158 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
