National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 1 About these regulatory accounting statements National Grid Gas is the holder of two gas transporter Relationship of regulatory accounting statements licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS with statutory accounts business and one in respect of its gas distribution The financial information contained in these regulatory network DN businesses.
Under Standard Special accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts Condition A30 of each of these licences, we are required within the meaning of section 404 of the Companies Act 2006.
Statutory accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting March 2012, to which the financial information relates, have statements setting out the financial position and been delivered to the registrar of Companies.
performance of each of the regulatory businesses covered by that licence.
The auditors have made a report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 on those statutory accounts which was Scope of the regulatory accounting statements unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section These DN regulatory accounting statements are for National 498 2 or 3 of the Act.
The auditors opinion on the Companys Grid Gas and its DN business, which comprises gas distribution statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the and metering.
We also prepare and publish regulatory members of the Company and not for any other person or accounting statements for our NTS business, including liquefied purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on natural gas LNG storage.
Together, these two sets of those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only regulatory accounting statements comprise all the businesses for the Companys members as a body in accordance with and activities of National Grid Gas.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or The regulatory gas distribution and metering businesses assume responsibility for any other purposes or to any other included in these regulatory accounting statements differ in person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is certain respects from the gas distribution and metering shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly operating segments reported in the Companys annual report agreed by their prior consent in writing.
The statutory accounts of the Company, and of the ultimate Content of the regulatory accounting statements parent company National Grid plc National Grid, can be In accordance with the licence and as agreed with the Gas and obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, these regulatory plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH, and from the website accounting statements comprise: of National Grid plc at www.
A Business Review for the Company as a whole including Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting information on the financial performance and financial statements position of our DN business.
A Directors Report in respect of the Company as a whole.
These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary A Corporate Governance Statement in respect of our apportionments of certain revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and regulatory gas distribution and metering businesses.
shareholders equity of the Company which are not specifically A Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing attributable to the regulatory businesses and activities reported regulatory accounting statements.
in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, The Independent Auditors Report on the regulatory nevertheless, we are required to report against those accounting statements.
This is separate to their report on businesses and activities.
Further details of these items are the annual report and accounts of the Company, and is to provided in the Basis of preparation on page 42.
GEMA and the Directors of the Company.
Consolidated financial statements for the Company as a whole, including additional accounting policies in respect of the basis of preparation of the supplementary analyses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements by regulatory business, including a reconciliation to the financial statements for the Company as a whole and certain information, which, in accordance with the licence, is provided only to GEMA and is not published.
