40 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Adoption of new accounting standards New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2011 12 During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company has not adopted any new IFRS, IAS or amendments issued by the IASB or interpretations by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, which have had a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Company enters into a significant number of transactions which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 on financial instruments.
The IASB is completing IFRS 9 in phases and the Company is evaluating the impact of the standard as it develops.
IFRS 10 on consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, on joint arrangements, IFRS 12 on disclosures of interests in other entities and IFRS 13 on fair value measurements and consequent amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 were issued in May 2011.
The Company is evaluating the impact of these standards on its financial statements.
The standards are required to be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The amended version of IAS 19 on employee benefits, issued in June 2011 and effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2013 subject to EU endorsement, requires net interest to be calculated on the net defined benefit liability asset using the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation.
Where the expected return on assets exceeds the discount rate, the adoption of the amended standard will result in a reduction in reported net income with a corresponding increase in other comprehensive income.
As the Company does not recognise any defined benefit pension obligations within its financial statements, this amended standard will not directly impact on the Companys financial statements.
Other standards and interpretations or amendments thereto which have been issued, but are not yet effective, are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
