National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 1 About these regulatory accounting statements Operator SO activities.
This extra-licence information is National Grid Gas is the holder of two gas transporter provided only to Ofgem and is not published.
licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution Relationship of regulatory accounting statements network DN businesses.
Under Standard Special with statutory accounts Condition A30 of each of these licences, we are required The financial information contained in these regulatory to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts statements setting out the financial position and within the meaning of section 404 of the Companies Act 2006. performance of each of the regulatory businesses Statutory accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 covered by that licence.
March 2012, to which the financial information relates, have been delivered to the registrar of Companies.
Scope of the regulatory accounting statements The auditors have made a report under Section 495 of the These NTS regulatory accounting statements are for National Companies Act 2006 on those statutory accounts which was Grid Gas and its NTS business, which comprises gas unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section transmission, including liquefied natural gas LNG storage.
The auditors opinion on the Companys also prepare and publish regulatory accounting statements for statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the our DN business, including gas metering.
Together, these two members of the Company and not for any other person or sets of regulatory accounting statements comprise all the purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on businesses and activities of National Grid Gas.
those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only The regulatory gas transmission business included in these for the Companys members as a body in accordance with regulatory accounting statements differs in certain respects Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no from the gas transmission operating segment reported in the other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or Companys annual report and accounts.
assume responsibility for any other purposes or to any other person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is Content of the regulatory accounting statements shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly In accordance with the licence and as agreed with the Gas and agreed by their prior consent in writing.
Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, these regulatory The statutory accounts of the Company, and of the ultimate accounting statements comprise: parent company National Grid plc National Grid, can be A Business Review for the Company as a whole including obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid information on the financial performance and financial plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH, and from the website position of our NTS business.
of National Grid plc at www.
A Directors Report in respect of the Company as a whole.
A Corporate Governance Statement in respect of our Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting regulatory gas transmission business.
statements A Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary regulatory accounting statements.
apportionments of certain revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and The Independent Auditors Report on the regulatory shareholders equity of the Company which are not specifically accounting statements.
This is separate to their report on attributable to the regulatory businesses and activities reported the annual report and accounts of the Company, and is to in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, GEMA and the Directors of the Company.
nevertheless, we are required to report against those Consolidated financial statements for the Company as a businesses and activities.
Further details of these items are whole, including additional accounting policies in respect provided in the Basis of preparation on page 42. of the basis of preparation of the supplementary analyses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements by regulatory business, including a reconciliation to the financial statements for the Company as a whole and certain information, which, in accordance with the licence, is provided only to GEMA and is not published.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements for our NTS business by Transmission Owner TO and System
