National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 19 Delivering our strategy What we delivered this year As we enter each new year, we assess our strategy and set priorities for the coming period.
These priorities cover a broad array of actions that will collectively, over time, deliver our strategy.
Some examples of the actions taken this year can be found in the how we deliver section on pages 8 to 11.
In this section, we provide a closer look at some of our priorities and how we have performed against them during the year.
GD1 submission, where we committed to delivering significant Strategies: operational excellence and innovation efficiencies in our delivery of outputs.
& efficiency We have replaced our legacy asset databases so, for the Some of the priorities set for 2011 12 that underpinned our first time, all our gas distribution asset records are in one operational excellence and innovation & efficiency strategic place: all 95 million have been loaded into the systems.
goals were to: Network extensions and replacements are now designed Deliver common key processes and execute on best directly onto online maps and work orders are produced practice initiatives.
automatically instead of designs being created on paper Deliver the Gas Distribution transformation programme.
with manually produced work orders.
The integrated systems are helping to improve the We have made significant progress on a number of our efficiency of our end-to-end processes through better transformation initiatives, as well as driving continuous improvements across the business, but there is more to do and designs, eliminating data duplication, streamlining capital planning and providing improved management information process improvement underpins a number of our priorities for to enable better decision-making.
The system delivers real time geographical visibility of all Our Gas Distribution transformation, underpinned by the Gas work and vehicles which, along with auto scheduling and Distribution front office GDFO programme, is already reaping the ability to bulk issue and drip feed work, will help to rewards.
This year we have met all our standards of service and optimise the efficiency of our field staff.
improved our customer satisfaction scores.
Our maintenance process, after early challenges when the system was introduced in 2010, is now seeing significant Streamlining processes As part of our Gas Distribution transformation programme, we operational improvements.
Maintenance productivity has improved by 16% and our on time response to faults has have redesigned many critical business processes so we can also improved significantly.
improve the service we deliver to customers and, at the same time, achieve cost efficiencies and improve employee A step change in IS productivity.
We have reduced the number of core business Our business is evolving to meet the demands of our customers systems from 40 to four and created an integrated solution, with and regulators: we have revised our organisational structure geospatial planning, scheduling and mobile applications.
This and sourcing strategies: and we are working to ensure that our will enhance our asset and work management capabilities and IS are also positioned to support us.
We are taking a new ensure our field staff are able to respond to customers quickly approach to system design and delivery, infrastructure and and effectively.
service delivery across our IS landscape with the following The programme has successfully implemented the new objectives: technology and process improvements for our emergency and removing the reliance on an ageing infrastructure and maintenance, and customer service operations.
The final GDFO complex application portfolio that limit our ability to deliver deployment to our repair teams, which was delayed, is on track a reliable service and respond to growth opportunities: to complete ahead of the Olympics this summer.
meeting the challenge of our customers and regulators to operate more efficiently and continue to deliver quality We have replaced all telephony hardware and introduced a new services at better value: and customer service solution for the national gas emergency developing the capability and capacity to deliver more and service.
The new system provides information on job progress better IS solutions and services to the business in and previous work at our customers premises enabling us to rapidly communicate with engineers about any issue, in response to our customers needs.
We have already seen an National Grids new IS operating model includes six strategic improvement in service levels and this will support further partners, to help the delivery of our investment plan, and levels enhancement of our customer satisfaction scores.
of investment that would be unachievable if we did not significantly change our ways of working.
Under this partner System investment was key to the improved operational performance forecast we gave to Ofgem as part of our RIIOleveraged approach, IS will be able to offer a more flexible, 20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 agile, cost effective, transparent and responsive delivery model service had improved but could still be better and that they for its services.
The benefits of the new model will be: would like to see further improvements in our connections services.
They believe that innovation will play a crucial role in operating through one common global infrastructure, enabling us to continue to manage our networks going forward.
standard processes and tools, which makes managing our systems simpler and more efficient: All of this has shaped our RIIO business plan submissions, but delivering higher quality at better value which is being it is important that our engagement doesnt end once the first demanded from our customers and regulators: RIIO period begins.
Our intention is to make talking networks an partnering with businesses across National Grid to better enduring process and to put stakeholder engagement at the serve our customers: heart of our business activities.
providing real cost transparency helping the businesses Strategy: disciplined investment to make more informed decisions around service levels One of the priorities set for 2011 12 that underpinned our and investments: and disciplined investment strategy was ensure successful delivery a significantly more secure and resilient IS environment of the core UK investment programme.
protecting our assets and information.
Our future organic growth is dependent on the successful Strategy: engaging externally delivery of our capital investment plans which in 2011 12 One of the priorities set for 2011 12 that underpinned our amounted to 0.9 billion.
engaging externally strategy was to work with Ofgem and other Investing in our people stakeholders to implement a successful rollover for TPCR4 and submit final proposals for RIIO-T1 and RIIO-GD1 plans.
We are committed to investing in our people, providing the training and other support necessary for them to build, maintain Talking networks and operate our networks safely and reliably.
Delivering a Our RIIO business plan submissions for Transmission and Gas training programme of the required magnitude needs state of Distribution were very different to anything we had previously the art facilities and equipment.
submitted to Ofgem, with among other things a much greater emphasis on demonstrating how stakeholders have influenced A new gas transmission training centre has been sanctioned.
the development of our business plans.
Our training centres use innovative and engaging eLearning, 3D virtual reality, SMART board technology, learner response In developing the business plans, we drew together the views technology and virtual classrooms to enhance the learning and opinions of our broad range of stakeholders, using all the experience and reduce the costs associated with off the job methods of engagement at our disposal, including some new training delivery.
and innovative engagement activities which have focused on informing and shaping our plans.
At the very beginning of our RIIO engagement, we developed talking networks, a comprehensive and coordinated programme of stakeholder engagement covering both Transmission and Gas Distribution.
Through this, we built on our existing engagement activities to proactively engage with our stakeholders on topics related to the first RIIO price control period.
We promised our stakeholders we would listen to what they have to say, discuss our future challenges and plans with them, and then act on what they told us.
Initial response to our engagement has been very positive.
We are seen as industry leading in our engagement activities and the fact that we have been so proactive in discussing our ideas with our stakeholders and incorporating their views into our plans has been very well received.
We have gathered a great deal of detail about what our stakeholders think of the services we provide and what they see as being our priorities going forward.
For example, Transmission stakeholders have told us that reliability of supply is paramount.
They trust our record on safety and expect that to continue, and see us as having an important role to play in facilitating the move towards meeting the countrys environmental targets by connecting new low carbon generation.
Stakeholders also told us that our level of customer
