National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 29 Accounting policies Revenue Basis of accounting Revenue includes an assessment of gas transportation services The consolidated financial statements present the results of supplied to customers between the date of the last invoice and National Grid Gas for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 2011 the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the gas transportation and financial position as at 31 March 2012 and 2011.
They services supplied during this period would have an impact on have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in the reported results.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Unbilled revenues at 31 March 2012 are estimated at 195 million compared with 165 million at 31 March 2011.
In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Union EU Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment for use by listed companies.
The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of non-current intangible assets Choices permitted under IFRS can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in IFRS provide certain options available within accounting determining their estimated economic lives.
Material choices we have made, and continue to Hedge accounting make include the following: We use derivative financial instruments to hedge certain Presentation formats economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and We use the nature of expense method for our income statement interest rates or other factors that could affect either the value and total our balance sheet to net assets and total equity.
of the our assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, may be accounted for using hedge accounting where the together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements requirements are met.
If a hedge does not meet the strict are presented on the face of the income statement.
criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded Customer contributions in the income statement immediately instead of being Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards capital recognised in the statement of comprehensive income or by expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Financial instruments Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should circumstances where this is permitted.
be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Critical accounting policies either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the The application of accounting principles requires us to make companys financial performance and distort the comparability estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the of financial performance between periods.
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Items of income or expense that are considered by and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the management for designation as exceptional items include such accounts.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments using historical experience, consultation with experts and other of non-current assets, material changes in environmental methods that we consider reasonable in the particular provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results investments and debt redemption costs.
may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the to the revision become known.
income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or Certain accounting policies, described below, have been decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies prices over which the Company has no control.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies Tax estimates below should be read in conjunction with the description of our Our tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates accounting policies set out in our consolidated financial in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for statements on pages 34 to 39. taxation requires us to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate our ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
30 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Carrying value of assets and potential for impairments Asset useful lives The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year balance sheet could be materially reduced if an impairment on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on were to be assessed as being required.
Impairment reviews are property, plant and equipment by 12 million pre-tax and our carried out when a change in circumstance is identified that annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by 5 million indicates an asset might be impaired.
involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the valueHedge accounting in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the If using our derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting carrying value in the balance sheet.
had not been achieved during the year ended 31 March 2012 These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the then the profit for the year would have been 117 million higher price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will than that reported net of tax, and net assets would have been be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an 112 million higher.
appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
Assets carried at fair value Assets and liabilities carried at fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value Certain financial investments and derivative financial would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of instruments are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value derivative financial instruments of 50 million.
Provisions The fair value of financial investments is based on market A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated prices, as are those of derivative financial instruments where in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are or decrease in our provisions of approximately 16 million.
valued using financial models, which include judgements on, in Accounting developments particular, future movements in exchange and interest rates.
Accounting standards, amendments to standards and Provisions interpretations adopted in 2011 12 Provisions are made for liabilities, the timing and amount of In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have which is uncertain.
These include provisions for the cost of complied IFRS, IAS and interpretations applicable for 2011 12. environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and None of the standards, amendments to standards and employer and public liability claims.
interpretations adopted during 2011 12 resulted in a material change to our consolidated financial statements for the year, or Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash the comparatives presented.
flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of discounting is material.
The amounts and Accounting standards, amendments to standards and timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are interpretations not yet adopted based on management estimates supported by the use of New accounting standards, amendments to standards and external consultants.
interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by National Grid are discussed in the financial statements on page Pension obligations 40.
Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which the Company is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
A change in these arrangements may lead to the Company recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme.
Sensitivities In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Revenue accruals A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2012 would result in an increase or decrease in our recorded net assets and profit for the year by approximately 20 million net of tax.
