National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 23 Principal operations Gas Transmission We own and operate the gas national transmission system in Our safety and reliability performance has remained strong Great Britain, with day-to-day responsibility for balancing during the year and we believe this can continue.
We also own and operate two LNG storage facilities in satisfaction scores have improved and work is underway to help Great Britain, one of which has been subsequently closed in deliver further improvement in this area.
We are working with stakeholders to try to develop the network For more details on how our Gas Transmission business of the future, designed to have appropriate flexibility to cope operates see page 3. with the transition to a low carbon economy.
Key achievements Results delivered our capital investment programme totalling 0.2 The results for the Gas Transmission segment for the years billion: ended 31 March 2012 and 2011 were as follows: continued to deliver 100% transmission system reliability: Years ended 31 March opened an office in Brussels to engage at a European 2012 2011 level: and m m outperformed our transmission carbon budgets.
Revenue and other operating income 976 912 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 517 492 Strategy Adjusted operating profit 459 420 Gas Transmissions strategy will include: Exceptional items 1 8 delivering the increased capital investment programme.
Operating profit 458 412 This adds to our regulated asset value and supports future equity growth: Principal movements 2010 11 2011 12 working with Ofgem to achieve an acceptable outcome to Adjusted RIIO T1.
This will include reviewing the output measures operating profit and incentives and considering how best to maximise our m returns under these new mechanisms.
This will contribute 2010 11 adjusted operating profit 420 to future earnings and cash flows: Timing 1 7 continuing work to increase our influence in Europe and Net regulated income 2 68 create a long-term EU strategy, intended to help contribute Regulated controllable operating costs 2 to the evolution of the laws and regulations that affect our Depreciation and amortisation 3 15 business and our consumers: and increasing innovation, commercially, technically and Other 4 19 financially.
This can help us meet the output measures of 2011 12 adjusted operating profit 459 our RIIO regulatory agreement and assist in finding new ways to generate growth.
1 - In year estimated over-recovery of 17 million compared with a prior year estimated over-recovery of 10 million.
The Principal risks closing estimated under-recovered balance is 3 million.
the assets associated with our major project developments 2 - Increase in regulated revenues collectable under our will require significant stakeholder engagement in order to regulatory RPI-X formula.
secure the necessary permissions to be built: 3 - Higher average asset values due to the capital investment the increased capital expenditure programme drives a programme need to ensure we have the appropriate core 4 - Primarily relates to the impairment of LNG storage assets organisational and leadership capabilities: and that are no longer required.
the outcome of Ofgems review of our business plans is uncertain.
Outlook We believe the outlook for our Gas Transmission business over the coming year is positive.
While there are challenges ahead, we believe we have the right skills and approach to overcome them.
In the next 12 months we aim to deliver 0.2 billion of capital investment and over the RIIO price control period we estimate this will be 7 billion.
