National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 3 Our business model Driven by strategy customers, regulators, governments and wider industry is We share the National Grid vision and strategy.
critical to understanding their expectations and thereby Vision delivering service that meets their needs.
We must engage We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international electricity effectively on climate change and the future energy mix to and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, reliability and deliver networks fit for a low carbon economy.
We engage with efficiency, vital to the well-being of our customers and regulators to ensure operational excellence is rewarded with the communities.
opportunity to deliver attractive revenue streams and mechanisms to manage uncertainty.
We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy management and to safeguarding our global environment for Equity growth is driven by efficient capital investment in our future generations.
regulated networks, which will grow our regulated asset base.
A disciplined investment programme is critical to delivering Strategy customers needs through reliable and affordable networks.
We We will operate and grow our business to deliver consistently must be clear about how and when any investment will be superior financial returns through: remunerated and ensure we only invest where we can reasonably expect to earn an adequate return.
our drive for operational excellence: embedding innovation and efficiency in our corporate culture: understanding the needs of our stakeholders and shaping energy policy through external engagement: and maintaining a disciplined investment programme to grow our regulated asset base.
Our strategy aims to enhance our reputation as an operator and owner of gas networks, delivering quality and reliable service for a reasonable cost in a sustainable way.
Delivering our strategy will provide a competitive advantage through attractive regulatory arrangements.
This combines with a balance of growth and cash generating businesses to drive total shareholder returns for our parent, National Grid.
Operating at the highest levels of safety, reliability, efficiency and customer service is fundamental to the strength of our reputation with our customers, communities and regulators.
Operational excellence will help us to strengthen this reputation and to deliver the outputs that underpin our core revenue streams.
It also helps in maximising income under our incentive schemes and controlling costs.
By delivering it we can improve cash returns and manage the risks of our business most effectively.
Innovation and efficiency underpin operational excellence.
They drive incentive performance, give access to investment and growth opportunities, and aid regulatory engagement.
We continue to track, and where appropriate participate in, emerging technologies that are likely to have an impact on our business.
More than ever before, being successful will require us to embed an innovative mindset within our organisational culture.
Innovation extends to the way we finance our operations: delivering enhanced returns and increasing available cash while managing risk.
Policy decisions by regulators, governments and others directly affect our regulated businesses.
