8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Delivering our strategy How do we deliver?
Our people are the foundation of what we do.
It is through their forums where senior leaders share key topics relevant to our actions that we will deliver our strategy: ensuring we have a business.
These provide our people with the opportunity to ask skilled, engaged and dedicated workforce is essential to this.
questions and connect with leadership.
National Grid produces Delivering a safe and reliable network is the number one priority a monthly magazine and we use various team forums and for our people.
We also remain committed to being an communication methods such as email broadcasts and innovative leader in energy management and to safeguarding discussion boards.
our global environment for future generations.
Aligning individual and corporate goals The relationships we hold with our regulators, customers and Our strategy is cascaded to employees.
This ensures that the communities continue to be important: we have made changes objectives of each employee align with those of National Grid to forge even deeper relationships and broaden our and the actions required to deliver the strategy are allocated to engagement with stakeholders.
and shared by all our people, connecting them to our corporate goals.
We continue to invest to create organic growth.
Any investment we make will fit with our strategic goals, deliver a reasonable Our performance, talent and reward management process for return and maintain the balance and spread of our businesses.
managers, links incentive compensation to an assessment of both what the individual has achieved and how those outcomes People have been achieved, with reference to their individual We are committed to developing our employees to the objectives.
This provides ongoing incentive for all managers to best of their abilities and to ensuring we have access to contribute to the achievement of our strategic goals and ensures that our top performers are recognised for their the widest possible pool of talent to meet the current and contributions.
future requirements of our business.
Building capability Building an engaged workforce We have reviewed the leadership, business and technical We measure how engaged our people are through our capabilities that we will need to ensure we are successful, employee engagement index, calculated from certain questions including: driving process excellence: innovation: and in our employee survey.
National Grids 2012 employee survey stakeholder management.
We are designing tools and included 68 questions and was completed by 84% of processes to help elevate our capabilities in those areas and employees.
The results allow us to identify specific areas where they will be supported by training programmes and other we are performing well and those areas we need to improve.
We have invested in a range of Our employee engagement scores have increased compared technologies that will enhance the learning experience and with the last survey in 2010. reduce the cost associated with training delivery.
We endeavour We want to make sure our people are as fully engaged as they to continually improve the quality of our new talent development can be.
To demonstrate our ongoing commitment to this programmes and National Grids focus on this has external important area, one of our 2012 13 shared priorities is to recognition, including 2010 Ofsted grade 1 outstanding increase levels of employee engagement across all our teams.
performance rating and UK Learning and Skills Improvement National Grid has created a company wide framework called Service Beacon status.
engaging for performance that explains what we believe National Grids graduate scheme is well regarded and we have contributes to increasing engagement, which in turn results in continued to be an employer of choice.
In 2012, National Grid higher levels of performance.
was ranked 84 in the Times Top 100 graduate employers, an Survey reports are produced at business unit, function and improvement on 2011 when we entered the Top 100 for the first team levels and associated action plans are created.
Graduate retention levels are good, standing at 86%.
engaging for performance framework provides managers with National Grids foundations of leadership programme, aimed at access to practical and easy to use tools and guidance to the next generation of managers, continued to run throughout support them when developing team action plans.
For our female employees, we also continued to provide Communicating for success access to the Springboard and Spring Forward development Good communication helps employee engagement and we programmes.
National Grid appeared in the Times Top 50 have multiple communication channels to ensure our Employers for Women, appearing in the list since 2006. employees have access to information that is relevant to them Promoting inclusion and diversity and so that they feel connected to the business.
We use our We aim to develop and operate our business with an inclusive intranet site to make announcements, share our achievements and diverse culture, ensuring equal opportunity in recruitment, and to communicate what we have learnt and other information career development, training and reward for all employees useful to our people.
National Grid also has various open National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 9 regardless of race, gender, nationality, age, disability, sexual Safety and reliability orientation, gender identity, religion and background.
Where Providing safe and reliable services is what our existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide customers expect.
continued employment and training wherever practical.
A focus for 2011 12 was creating a level playing field in the Keeping our people and the public safe organisation.
These policies support the attraction and retention While our employee lost time injury frequency rate was 0.15, of the best people, improve effectiveness, deliver superior compared with 0.16 in 2010 11, this year we have seen an performance and enhance our success.
accident leading to the death of one contractor.
We have investigated thoroughly and learnt from this tragedy.
Our employee resource groups, which cover areas including gender, ethnicity, disability, faith, sexual orientation, veterans We recognise the need to reinvigorate and reinforce our safety and new employees, continue to have good membership.
All our senior leadership team These groups deliver opportunities for professional are asked to be visible safety leaders, actively engaging with development, networking, supporting our community relations employees, to drive our safety ambition forward and ensuring activities and increasing the broader understanding of inclusion lessons learnt from any incidents are acted on where and diversity through workshops, presentations and other appropriate.
Further development of our safety culture will be critical to Information on our inclusion and diversity policies can be found navigating the heightened risks that come with our expanding on the corporate responsibility section of National Grids capital investment programme.
Key parts of the business have website.
undertaken safety culture surveys to capture what our employees think about how we manage safety and help us Attracting the best people identify areas where we need to improve.
We are committed to As a result of our extensive capital investment plans, we need ensuring that everyone has the expertise, and exhibits the right to increase our employee numbers in key parts of our business, behaviours, to work safely and without harm.
We will also particularly engineers and other technical roles.
leverage our size, and learn from our partners, to identify best National Grid is establishing mediumand long-term talent practices and ensure these are shared and implemented across pipelines and has launched an engineering entry programme our business.
for recent graduates with science, technology, engineering or A recent area of focus has been deploying a major accident maths STEM degrees.
The two year comprehensive and hazard framework and risk methodology, and standards that structured training programme will provide a blend of practical build greater structure into process safety and risk experience with traditional training programmes and will help management.
The requirements are being discussed with all of the recruits develop project management and development our relevant businesses and teams to ensure they are expertise, as well as increase their technical knowledge and implemented and applied consistently.
A review process has gain specialist experience of the energy sector.
On successful been established using technical specialists and third party completion, they will be appointed to a permanent role.
independent assessors, to aid sharing and consistent With an ageing workforce and declining interest in STEM application of standards.
subjects by young people, pressure on recruitment will continue National Grids Executive Committee monitors progress against for many years.
National Grids long-term talent programmes our safety goals monthly and the governance arrangements for will help to provide us with the expertise we need to be the oversight of safety are being strengthened.
successful well into the future.
This year in the UK, National Grid worked with more than 3,900 school students giving them Delivering reliability an insight into engineering, the energy sector and National Grid.
Our licences and regulatory agreements set out reliability National Grid delivered 22 open days, ran two residential work targets and these are linked to our revenue streams.
We are experience week courses for nearly 100 15 year olds at its pleased to report that we have met all our reliability targets for training centre, supported seven engineering education scheme the year.
After failing to meet our standards of service last year projects, delivered 30 STEM enhancement days and many talks and being fined 4.3 million by Ofgem, we are also pleased to in schools.
report that we met all our standards of service this year.
National Grid also runs an engineering pipeline programme and Reliability is achieved through four interrelated actions: planning has recently completed the second year.
This six year our capital investments to meet changing demand and supply development programme is designed to inspire promising patterns: designing and building robust networks: risk based students to become engineers and provide them with an maintenance and replacement programmes: and detailed and opportunity for fast tracked employment with us.
National Grids UK Future Energy Scenarios publication, available from its website, outlines our forecasts for energy needs in the UK up to 2050.
We use this to inform our capital 10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 investment plans and ensure our networks will deliver what is reduction in gas losses each year.
We also now use required in the future.
computerised pressure management equipment that matches system pressures with demand, improving safety, driving Our construction teams work closely with our engineers to considerable reductions in gas losses and, consequently, ensure that the networks designed, and built will meet internal reducing the levels of our greenhouse gas effects.
and external technical specifications and deliver the required levels of reliability, once brought into service.
Our Gas Stakeholder engagement Transmission business is PAS 55 and ISO 9001 certified, and Stakeholders views form an integral part of the way we has detailed procedures in place governing a project throughout do business and make decisions.
each phase of scoping, design, commissioning and the transition to normal operations.
Key roles on each project are Meeting the needs of stakeholders defined and owners assigned, along with appropriate Our stakeholder engagement principles include: independent checks to ensure quality is maintained.
Integrity: We will be open and engaging so we can We collect and analyse a large quantity of data relating to develop a clear understanding of what our stakeholders network reliability including faults, failures and defect want us to deliver.
Using this information, asset health indices are Accountability: We will inform stakeholders of how their assigned to the major equipment groups.
These are then views have been taken into account and, if they have not, considered together with safety, system and environmental the reasons why.
criticality to give replacement priorities that feed into our Transparency: We will conduct our engagement activities maintenance and replacement programmes.
in a transparent manner, ensuring all relevant information is readily available and understandable to all stakeholders.
Environmental responsibility Inclusivity: We recognise the need to increase As a responsible business, we are committed to engagement with the broadest possible range of our protecting the environment for current and future stakeholders and we will seek their views.
For example, in the course of developing our transmission and gas distribution business plans for RIIO-T1 and RIIO-GD1, we Investing in and running gas networks means we use energy held 26 workshops, talking directly to several hundred and raw materials, and produce waste.
Our goal is to reduce stakeholders with a broad range of interests.
We produced any adverse effect we may have and we look for ways to three written consultations, held numerous forums and focus improve the environment.
We embrace new technology and groups, undertook in-depth telephone interviews and surveyed methods to use resources more efficiently and sustainably, opinions from over 10,000 customers.
We used an independent seek to responsibly refurbish existing assets and reduce waste third party to facilitate our stakeholder engagement so we could through recycling and materials efficiency.
be sure we were not unwittingly influencing, misunderstanding Reducing greenhouse gases or misinterpreting what our stakeholders were saying.
We have continued with our climate change and energy Our regulators remain an important area of focus for our efficiency programmes and remain committed to National Grids stakeholder engagement activities.
National Grid has opened targets of a 45% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas an office in Brussels to establish a stronger and more visible GHG emissions by 2020 and 80% by 2050.
Refer to the presence with EU institutions and policy makers on key glossary on page 82 for a definition of Scope 1 and 2 strategic issues facing us in the years to come.
We continue to look for new technology or more efficient equipment that will help us achieve these goals and we Industry engagement have outperformed a number of targets for emissions during the Participation by our employees on other bodies allows us to year, including some tied to incentive revenues.
Our total Scope engage more broadly, and we aim to be supportive of roles on 1 and 2 emissions for 2011 12 were 2.1 million tonnes carbon industry boards and other groups where it does not disrupt dioxide equivalent.
This represents a 62% reduction on our responsibilities to National Grid.
We have refreshed our rolling five year Improving customer service greenhouse gas reduction plans and, although our 2011 12 We recognise the importance of good customer and community outturn is better than our 2020 target, we have many challenges relationships.
Success is evident from the improved results in through the next few years that will require considerable focus our key Ofgem customer satisfaction studies, as shown in our in the business.
We have a number of ongoing initiatives that have helped In late 2011, we opened our new Gas Distribution customer achieve these results.
Some of our gas distribution networks centres in Hinckley and Leicester, which combine cutting edge consist of old metallic pipe, which contributes significantly to the technology and specialist training to offer a fresh approach to gas losses from our system.
We have replaced around 2,000 customer service.
The new technology provides greater visibility kilometres of this leak prone pipe during the year and have of all the work we are doing, allowing our employees to respond estimated the replacements will achieve the equivalent of a 3% more effectively and resolve more enquiries on the first call, National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 11 resulting in improved service and customer satisfaction.
The incentive revenue will increase.
Examples of our current centres provide our customers with a single point of contact 24 incentive mechanisms include: hours a day, seven days a week to ensure we can always Day ahead gas demand forecast: if we achieve targets for maintain a high level of service and meet our commitments.
The the accuracy of the forecast published daily on our importance of this work in the UK will be reinforced by website, we can receive an incentive payment of up to requirements under the new RIIO price control, where customer around 8 million, however penalties can be charged if the satisfaction is a specific output measure linked to our potential forecast is inaccurate.
Greenhouse gas emissions: we can earn incentive Working with our communities payments if certain greenhouse gas emissions are below We have extended our outreach to include the communities in targets.
which our key suppliers operate.
The Global SpirIT initiative Under our price controls, our revenues include an imputed cost raises funds for the education of under-privileged children in of debt.
We manage our interest rate risk using fixedand India, where we have been working with IT suppliers for over 17 floating-rate debt and derivative financial instruments including years.
interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
Where we actively manage our interest rate risk, we seek to Financial outperformance minimise total financing costs being interest costs and changes We aim to maximise our returns within the constraints of in the market value of debt, subject to constraints.
National our regulatory agreements, while continuing to invest for Grids Finance Committee regularly monitors performance by future growth.
comparing the actual total financing costs with those of a comparable, passively managed, benchmark portfolio.
We have seen a good financial performance this year with improvement in our financial KPI.
Increasing productivity We are undertaking a number of transformation initiatives to Capital investment programme improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.
A feature of our price controls is that we earn a return on our regulated asset base.
As a result, as our regulated asset base National Grids global information services IS transformation increases, our returns should similarly increase.
We continue to project will replace ageing IS infrastructure that currently limits invest in our regulated asset base and our RIIO submissions our ability to deliver reliable IT systems and inhibits the creation have reflected a need for investment over the eight year price of platforms for growth.
Under a partner provided approach, our control in excess of 10 billion.
This is dependent on the IS services will offer a more flexible, cost effective, transparent location and number of new connections required and, if and responsive delivery model.
Our Gas Distribution front office achieved, will represent an average annual growth rate in our programme has progressed significantly during the year and is regulated asset value of around 7%.
The final deployment of the system, which will help our repair and construction teams, is on track to This amount of investment will not be without its challenges: complete ahead of the Olympics this summer.
More information obtaining planning permission for major projects is time on these programmes can be found in the case studies on page consuming and can create delays: finding and developing 19. enough people with the right skills will be difficult: and managing the costs of key inputs that are forecast to increase These transformation initiatives contribute to our ability to faster than the rate of inflation due to worldwide demand for support our future growth, improve operational performance these products, will also pose a challenge.
and efficiency, and respond to the needs of our stakeholders.
Remuneration from investment Managing costs We work closely with Ofgem and the Health and Safety As discussed on pages 5 to 6, our allowed revenues are set in Executive, to balance the needs of all stakeholders for a safe reference to an expected cost to deliver our services.
We must and reliable network, with a price control that provides the manage our costs closely within that framework as, without the required return to allow us to operate our businesses permission of our regulators, we may not be able to increase effectively.
We will only accept a price control settlement if we our revenues to compensate for cost overruns.
We set budgets believe that it achieves this balance.
and assign owners for cost centres within the business who are responsible for delivering set outputs within that budget.
For more information on the features of our price controls, refer to pages 5 to 6.
2012 13 priorities Incentives and outperformance At the beginning of each year, we set ourselves priorities: Achieving output targets to earn incentive revenue is a key achieving these will help us deliver our strategy.
Our priorities element of our ability to provide superior financial returns.
Our for 2012 13 are: price control plans have historically included a range of deliver the core Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution incentive mechanisms and under RIIO the importance of investment programmes: 12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 agree a RIIO price control for both transmission and gas distribution that allows a reasonable return for investors: develop and implement the right processes and organisational model that will allow us to be successful under RIIO and maintain our credit ratings: deepen relationships with important European stakeholders and raise our profile within the EU: deliver a step change improvement in safety performance across our organisation: increase levels of employee engagement across all teams: deliver significant improvements in how we meet our customer commitments: and achieve our financial targets.
