National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 33 Accounting policies Revenue Basis of accounting Revenue includes an assessment of gas transportation services The consolidated financial statements present the results of supplied to customers between the date of the last invoice and National Grid Gas for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 2011 the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the gas transportation and financial position as at 31 March 2012 and 2011.
They services supplied during this period would have an impact on have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in the reported results.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Unbilled revenues at 31 March 2012 are estimated at 195 million compared with 165 million at 31 March 2011.
In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Union EU Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment for use by listed companies.
The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of non-current intangible assets Choices permitted under IFRS can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in IFRS provide certain options available within accounting determining their estimated economic lives.
Material choices we have made, and continue to Hedge accounting make include the following: We use derivative financial instruments to hedge certain Presentation formats economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and We use the nature of expense method for our income statement interest rates or other factors that could affect either the value and total our balance sheet to net assets and total equity.
of the our assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, may be accounted for using hedge accounting where the together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements requirements are met.
If a hedge does not meet the strict are presented on the face of the income statement.
criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded Customer contributions in the income statement immediately instead of being Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards capital recognised in the statement of comprehensive income or by expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Exceptional items and remeasurements Financial instruments Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should circumstances where this is permitted.
be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Critical accounting policies either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the The application of accounting principles requires us to make companys financial performance and distort the comparability estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the of financial performance between periods.
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Items of income or expense that are considered by and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the management for designation as exceptional items include such accounts.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments using historical experience, consultation with experts and other of non-current assets, material changes in environmental methods that we consider reasonable in the particular provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results investments and debt redemption costs.
may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the to the revision become known.
income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or Certain accounting policies, described below, have been decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies prices over which the Company has no control.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies Tax estimates below should be read in conjunction with the description of our Our tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates accounting policies set out in our consolidated financial in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for statements on pages 42 to 48. taxation requires us to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate our ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
34 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Carrying value of assets and potential for impairments Asset useful lives The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year balance sheet could be materially reduced if an impairment on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on were to be assessed as being required.
Impairment reviews are property, plant and equipment by 12 million pre-tax and our carried out when a change in circumstance is identified that annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by 5 million indicates an asset might be impaired.
involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the valueHedge accounting in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the If using our derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting carrying value in the balance sheet.
had not been achieved during the year ended 31 March 2012 These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the then the profit for the year would have been 117 million higher price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will than that reported net of tax, and net assets would have been be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an 112 million higher.
appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
Assets carried at fair value Assets and liabilities carried at fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value Certain financial investments and derivative financial would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of instruments are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value derivative financial instruments of 50 million.
Provisions The fair value of financial investments is based on market A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated prices, as are those of derivative financial instruments where in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are or decrease in our provisions of approximately 16 million.
valued using financial models, which include judgements on, in Accounting developments particular, future movements in exchange and interest rates.
Accounting standards, amendments to standards and Provisions interpretations adopted in 2011 12 Provisions are made for liabilities, the timing and amount of In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have which is uncertain.
These include provisions for the cost of complied IFRS, IAS and interpretations applicable for 2011 12. environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and None of the standards, amendments to standards and employer and public liability claims.
interpretations adopted during 2011 12 resulted in a material change to our consolidated financial statements for the year, or Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash the comparatives presented.
flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of discounting is material.
The amounts and Accounting standards, amendments to standards and timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are interpretations not yet adopted based on management estimates supported by the use of New accounting standards, amendments to standards and external consultants.
interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by National Grid are discussed in the financial statements on page Pension obligations 49.
Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which the Company is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
A change in these arrangements may lead to the Company recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme.
Sensitivities In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Revenue accruals A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2012 would result in an increase or decrease in our recorded net assets and profit for the year by approximately 20 million net of tax.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 35 Corporate governance statement The Company is required to include within its regulatory Board performance evaluation accounting statements a corporate governance statement The Board of the Company reviewed its performance over the which describes how the principles of good corporate year to 31 December 2011. governance have been applied and which has the same content The 2011 process, led by Nick Winser, was a formal and as the statement a quoted company is required to prepare.
rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board and the As a wholly owned subsidiary of National Grid plc, the company Directors.
is not subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, but A positive set of results was recorded across the survey operates within National Grids corporate governance indicating the Board is working effectively.
The following statement sets out how this governance framework has been applied to our regulatory DN The Directors agreed that Nick Winser demonstrated effective leadership and performed his responsibilities well, that the business.
Board acts in support of all the relevant governance National Grids corporate governance policies are described in documentation and Company policies.
its annual report and accounts.
Its Board considers that it complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code during Committees 2011 12.
The Board has established a number of committees and subcommittees which assist it in its activities.
These include the Governance framework Distribution Executive Committee, the Transmission Executive The Board of the Company is responsible for its overall Committee, the Compliance Committees and the Finance management and governance, and for ensuring that it complies Committee.
It does not have Nomination, Remuneration or with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with Audit Committees.
These functions are provided by National its Gas Transporter Licences.
The operational and financial Grid and their roles relevant to the Company are explained management of the Companys businesses is undertaken by below.
See the annual report and accounts of National Grid plc committees, in compliance with business separation for further information about these committees.
Board composition and continuity The Board meets at least 6 times a year on a bi-monthly basis.
The Board of the Company will make further appointments in There are no independent non-executive directors.
The Board consultation with its Shareholders and in accordance with does not have an independent Chairman and during the year National Grids Procedure for the Appointment of Directors of meetings were normally chaired by Nick Winser.
Attendance Board remuneration Attendance at Board meetings during 2011 12, expressed as The Directors of the Company are not separately remunerated number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, is in that capacity.
The remuneration of any Director, who is also a set out below.
member of the Board of National Grid plc, is determined by the Attendance Remuneration Committee of the Board of National Grid plc, as set out in its annual report and accounts.
The remuneration of Malcolm Cooper 7 of 7 other Directors is determined in accordance with National Grids Stuart Humphreys 7 of 7 remuneration policies for employees.
John Pettigrew 7 of 7 Paul Whittaker 6 of 7 Audit Committee of National Grid plc Adam Wiltshire 7 of 7 The Audit Committee of the Board of National Grid plc is Nick Winser 5 of 7 responsible for reviewing: the Companys financial reporting and internal controls and their effectiveness: the procedures for Board members are required to attend meetings regularly in the identification, assessment and reporting of risks: the order to ensure they are kept up to date with the business and appropriateness of auditors in carrying out certain non-audit accordingly can contribute to meetings.
Directors are informed work: and the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors.
of proposed meeting dates well in advance.
Directors are sent The Audit Committee is comprised of independent Nonpapers for meetings of the Board and for those committees of executive Directors of National Grid plc and meets at least 4 which they are a member.
Guidelines are in place concerning times annually.
Management of National Grid plc and external the content, timeliness and preferred presentation of papers to auditors are invited to attend by the Committee and would ensure Directors are briefed appropriately.
36 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Distribution Executive Committee Finance Committee The Distribution Executive Committee acts within National The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated policy and grants authority for financing decisions, bank authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial accounts, credit exposure, control mechanisms for hedging and management of the Distribution business.
Membership of this foreign exchange transactions, guarantees and indemnities and committee, which comprises two Directors of the Company, and approves, or if appropriate, recommends to the Board other senior managers of the Distribution business, and their treasury, tax, pensions and insurance strategies.
attendance at meetings during 2011 12, is set out below.
Group holding company Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out During the year Nick Winser was also an Executive Director of of number eligible to attend, and includes attendance by a National Grid plc.
Through his participation at the Boards of nominated deputy.
both companies, the Board of National Grid Gas is well placed Attendance to identify and facilitate understanding of the views of its John Pettigrew Company Director and Chief 10 of 12 shareholder.
Chair Operating Officer, Gas Distribution Risk management and internal control Adam Wiltshire Company Director and Chief 12 of 12 The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for Finance Officer, Gas Distribution internal control throughout its group operations and in particular Jeremy Bending Director, Network Strategy 10 of 12 in monitoring its effectiveness within its subsidiary companies.
Jon Butterworth Director of Operations 3 of 3 Until June 2011 The system of internal control, and in particular our risk Ed Syson From Director of Operations 9 of 9 management policies, has been designed to manage rather July 2011 than eliminate risks to the achievement of our strategic and Andrew McKelvey Head of Gas Distribution Alliances 4 of 4 business objectives.
Until July 2011 During the year, the Board of National Grid plc has undertaken Jonathan Head of Gas Distribution Alliances 8 of 8 Callighan From a review of the internal control processes, including those of the August 2011 Company, and their effectiveness.
Johnny Johnston Head of Customer Services 11 of 12 Risk management Chris Bennett Head of Commercial 12 of 12 The Company has embedded risk management into its Daniel Davies Emergency Response & Repair 9 of 12 business decision making process.
This risk management Process Manager process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down Hilary Buxton Replace & Extend Process 12 of 12 Manager assessments of operational, including safety, financial and David Salisbury Operate & Maintain Process 11 of 12 other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, business Manager units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture their key Pete Massey Director of Transformation 12 of 12 risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk Jonathan Munsey Acting UK General Counsel 5 of 5 registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the executive Until August committees for those business units.
Directors and other senior 2011 management are involved at critical stages in the review Karen Clayton UK General Counsel 6 of 7 process.
Their review and debate of the outputs of the bottomFrom September up assessment against their top-down views produce an overall 2011 evaluation of the risks that are faced by the Company.
In addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit The Distribution Executive Committee has a number of subCommittees of National Grid plc review National Grids overall committees dealing with matters such as investment risk profile and any changes.
The Audit Committee also reviews governance and coordination of operations.
the overall risk management process.
Transmission Executive Committee Compliance management Details of the Transmission Executive Committee are provided Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid in the NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements.
This process provides assurance to Directors and Compliance Committees senior management on the effectiveness of control frameworks The Compliance Committees of the Board are responsible for to manage key internal and external obligations and also overseeing the duties and tasks of the Business Separation highlights instances of significant non-compliance with these Compliance Officer and for overseeing compliance with the obligations.
External obligations are driven primarily by key business separation licence conditions see page 37.
There legal and regulatory requirements whereas internal obligations are separate Compliance Committees to deal with DN and NTS focus more on compliance with National Grids own corporate licence obligations.
policies and procedures, which included regulatory compliance National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 37 policies.
The compliance management process is consistent with and complimentary to the risk management process.
Internal audit The Company does not have a separate internal audit function.
This function is provided by National Grid's corporate audit function, which acts on a group wide basis and whose activities are monitored and reviewed by the Audit Committee of National Grid.
The Audit Committee also approves the National Grid audit plan, which is primarily risk led, with key areas of focus in 2011 12 being regulatory matters, financial processes, major system changes, and security and business resilience.
National Grids director of corporate audit reports key findings to the Audit Committee.
Business separation Special Condition C20 of our NTS gas transporter licence requires that the Company maintains managerial and operational systems such that: the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial advantage by reason of the way the Company conducts its NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition A6: and cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special Condition A35.
Our policy on business separation is set out in the Companys Compliance Statement.
We have taken the following specific actions to comply with the requirements of Special Condition C20: established separate management committees for the gas transmission and gas distribution businesses, as described above: appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business and the gas distribution business, as described above.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the Board of National Grid Gas and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
