14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Delivering our strategy Risks to delivery registers to capture their key risks and the actions being taken Risks are managed within the National Grid risk and to manage them.
Directors and other senior management compliance management processes which are described review, challenge and debate these bottom-up results, below.
Overall responsibility for management of risks lies producing an overall evaluation of the risks facing the with the Board of National Grid, which is committed to Company.
The Executive, Audit and Risk & Responsibility the long-term success of the Company and the Committees of National Grid review the risk profile and any protection of our reputation and assets.
It ensures we changes to it in accordance with their terms of reference, and maintain a sound system of internal control in order to the Audit Committee reviews the overall risk management safeguard the interests of shareholders.
In the last year, a number of enhancements to the process were National Grids system of internal control initiated.
The National Grid corporate risk function was National Grids system of internal control, and in particular its reorganised and brought into the strategic planning and risk management process, has been designed to manage corporate development function, to provide appropriate regional rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of focus in line with National Grids new operating model and to strategic and business objectives while also recognising that forge stronger links with strategic planning activities.
The Board any such process can provide only reasonable, and not of National Grid considered the characteristics of corporate risk absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This appetite and the outcome will determine the appropriate risk process complies with the Turnbull working party guidance, appetite for us in the pursuit and delivery of our strategy.
New revised October 2005. reporting formats, including dashboards incorporating risk In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and timings and mitigation objectives, were developed and rolled the schedule of matters reserved to the Board of National Grid, out to focus the risk management debate toward future actions.
the Board of National Grid retains overall responsibility for our Also, the implementation of a governance, risk and compliance system of internal control and monitoring of its effectiveness.
system that will improve our ability to link risks, automate risk Our established system of internal control is based on thorough metrics and capture associated assurance data has and systematic processes for the identification and assessment commenced.
of business critical risks and their management and monitoring National Grids compliance management process over time.
In depth reports are provided from both line managers and internal assurance providers such as corporate National Grids enterprise wide compliance management audit, corporate risk and ethics and compliance.
These reports process is consistent with, and complementary to, its risk are provided to the Committees of the Board of National Grid in management process and provides assurance to senior relation to their specific areas of responsibility and they, in turn, management on the effectiveness of control frameworks to provide reports to that Board.
manage key internal and external obligations, and also highlights any instances of significant non-compliance with The Board of National Grid reviews the effectiveness of our those obligations.
External obligations are driven primarily by internal control process, including around financial reporting, on key legal and regulatory requirements, while internal obligations an annual basis, to ensure it remains robust and to identify any focus on compliance with National Grids corporate policies and weaknesses.
The latest review included the financial year to 31 procedures.
In examining a business areas compliance performance, we National Grids risk management process look for any actual or potential instances of non-compliance, National Grids risk management process is designed to protect consult with other assurance providers, and frequently review value and enhance performance by building vigilance, agility the effectiveness of communications and training programmes.
and resilience into our management process.
The process Before issuing an opinion on an areas compliance control ensures that risks are assessed against a uniform set of criteria, framework, we obtain the views of experts in the field such as continuously managed and regularly reported in a visible and internal safety and environmental specialists.
The output informs management decisions The Executive, Risk & Responsibility and Audit Committees of and provides assurance to management and the Board of National Grid each receive a report twice a year setting out key National Grid, helping to safeguard our assets and reputation.
internal and external compliance obligations and any significant Our risk management process is based on comprehensive non-compliance with those obligations, together with bottom-up and top-down assessments of a wide range of risks, compliance opinions and action plans to improve controls which typically include strategic, operational including safety where necessary.
and reliability, financial and project risks.
Our businesses and the functions that support them, prepare and maintain risk National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 15 Principal risk factors Our risk management process has identified the following principal risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of our securities.
When appropriate, we implement processes, procedures and controls to minimise the likelihood of a risk occurring or the potential impact if it does occur.
It is not possible to eliminate a risk and even where a response is in place and effective, a risk may still occur.
Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Harmful activities Aspects of our activities are potentially hazardous or could damage the environment.
We are exposed to costs and liabilities from our operations and properties, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or formerly owned by us, and sites used for the disposal of our waste.
We are increasingly subject to regulation in relation to climate change and are affected by requirements to reduce our own carbon emissions as well as reduction in energy use by our customers.
If the legal requirements become more onerous or our regulatory framework changes, then we may not be able to recover all the costs of complying with these laws and regulations.
Our responses We have implemented safety and occupational health plans, programmes and procedures that are aimed at continuous improvements in safety performance.
We continue to focus on process safety, which ensures that at all stages of the asset life cycle key safety considerations are taken into account.
This includes the process and procedures that govern the development and design of the assets, the competence of the staff who will build, operate and maintain the assets and the quality of the materials used to construct them.
During the life cycle of our assets we develop risk assessments and method statements to ensure the safety of those working on equipment, the public and the operational performance of the system are not compromised.
More information on our safety initiatives can be found on page 9.
We are working to reduce our greenhouse gas GHG emissions and promote their global reduction through support of mandatory reporting legislation.
Our approach to GHG emission reductions is discussed on page 10.
We maintain robust investigation and remediation programmes to clean up wastes.
We have engineered controls in place to minimise or mitigate releases to the environment during remediation activities, including containment, alarms, spill response contracts and equipment.
Infrastructure and IT We may suffer a major network failure or interruption, or may not be able to carry out critical non-network systems operations.
This could cause us to fail to meet agreed standards of service, incentive and reliability targets, or be in breach of a licence, approval, regulatory requirement or contractual obligation, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
Our responses Routine maintenance is supported by a risk-based asset replacement strategy.
A global safety management process was initiated last year to reduce the likelihood of a major accident hazard.
It focuses on industry best practice risk assessment techniques, which may proactively identify opportunities to improve asset integrity.
We have robust demand forecasting processes and scenario analysis in place informed by broad consultation.
We use this information to plan our future development activity to ensure our network has the capacity to meet customer demands and also make this analysis available to stakeholders to inform their actions.
UK Future Energy Scenarios, available on National Grids website, gives more information.
We use industry best practices as part of our cyber security policies, processes and technologies and continually invest in cyber strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security landscape.
16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Law and regulation Changes in law or regulation or decisions by governmental bodies or regulators could materially adversely affect us.
See pages 5 to 6 which explain our regulatory environment in detail.
Our responses We actively participate in regulatory development and implementation to help shape favourable outcomes for National Grids shareholders and the industry.
We are working closely with Ofgem as they review our business plan submissions for RIIO-T1 and RIIOGD1.
Initial feedback has been favourable but final decisions are not due until later in the year and our engagement in this process will continue.
National Grid recently opened an office in Brussels to establish a stronger and more visible presence with EU institutions and policy makers.
We will inform the evolving discussion around European Network Codes, CO reduction targets beyond 2020 and more.
2 Cost escalation Changes in foreign currency rates or interest rates or could materially impact earnings or our financial condition.
Our results and net debt position may be affected because a significant proportion of our borrowings, and derivative financial instruments are affected by changes in interest rates and exchange rates, in particular the euro to sterling and the dollar to sterling exchange rates.
Furthermore, our cash flow may be materially affected as a result of settling hedging arrangements entered into to manage our exchange rate and interest rate exposure, or by cash collateral movements relating to derivative market values.
Operating costs may increase faster than revenues.
While income under our price controls is linked to the RPI, our operating costs may increase at a faster rate than RPI.
The majority of our employees are members of a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of our own financial resources.
If the scheme does not perform as currently expected, then we may be required by National Grid to make additional contributions to the pension scheme which, to the extent they are not recoverable under our price controls, could adversely affect our results and financial condition.
Our responses National Grids treasury function manages our financial risks, including foreign currency and interest rate, to within acceptable boundaries and under policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of National Grid and our Board.
The treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative manner with all transactions in financial instruments or products matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Foreign currency risk: Transaction risk is managed by hedging contractually committed foreign exchange transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
Where foreign currency cash flow forecasts are uncertain and a judgement has to be made, we hedge a proportion based on the likelihood of them occurring, aiming to hedge substantially all such cash flows without over hedging.
A hedge may be put in place where a foreign currency exposure is likely to occur, but where contracts have yet to be signed.
Cover usually involves forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to forecast underlying operational cash flows.
Interest rate risk: Interest rate risk is managed by seeking to minimise total financing costs interest costs and changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints.
We do this by using fixedand floating-rate debt and derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
We maintain a portion of our debt portfolio as inflation linked bonds.
This provides a partial economic offset to the inflation risk associated with our UK inflation linked revenues.
We measure the effectiveness of our interest rate risk management by comparing the actual total financing costs with those of a passively managed benchmark portfolio.
This is regularly monitored by the Finance National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 17 Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Committee of National Grid.
Inflation: Actions to minimise the impact of inflation include: transformation initiatives designed to improve productivity or reduce the cost of delivering outputs: contracting for future needs where appropriate: and a multi-supplier tendering process to ensure costs are minimised.
Pensions: We negotiate recovery of pension costs from our regulators.
Financing and liquidity Maintenance and growth of our business requires access to capital markets at commercially acceptable interest rates.
Our business is financed through cash generated from our ongoing operations, bank lending facilities and the capital markets, particularly the long-term debt capital markets.
Some of the debt we issue is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these ratings may affect both our borrowing capacity and borrowing costs.
In addition, restrictions imposed by regulators may also limit how we service the financial requirements of our businesses.
Financial markets can be subject to periods of volatility and shortages of liquidity, which may be exacerbated by the eurozone crisis.
If we were unable to access the capital markets or other sources of finance at competitive rates for a prolonged period, our cost of financing may increase, the discretionary and uncommitted elements of our proposed capital investment programme may need to be reconsidered and the manner in which we implement our strategy may need to be reassessed.
The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results and prospects.
Our regulatory agreements impose lower limits for the long-term senior unsecured debt credit ratings that we must hold.
In addition, our regulatory arrangements impose restrictions on the way we can operate.
These include regulatory requirements for us to maintain adequate financial resources within the Company.
The inability to meet such requirements may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition.
Our responses We identify short-term liquidity and long-term funding requirements by regularly producing shortand longterm cash flow forecasts, along with undertaking financial headroom analysis.
To facilitate shortand long-term debt issuance, we maintain commercial paper and medium-term note programmes.
We manage refinancing risk by limiting the amount of debt maturities on borrowings in any one financial year.
Details of our long-term borrowings maturity profile is on page 27.
We also have both committed and uncommitted bank borrowing facilities that are available for general corporate purposes to support our liquidity requirements.
The majority of our committed borrowing facilities are used to provide back up to our commercial paper programmes or other specific debt issuances.
To date, these have never been drawn and there is no current intention to draw them in the future.
We consider restrictions imposed by regulatory agreements in preparing cash flow forecasts and determining our future funding requirements.
Details of the programmes and facilities we maintain can be found in the debt investors section of National Grids website.
Customers and Customers and counterparties may not perform their obligations.
We have significant concentrations of counterparties receivables with a small number of large gas utilities.
Our responses Advance payments, security deposits or other forms of collateral may be obtained, to reduce the risk from customer default.
The Finance Committee of National Grid has agreed a policy for managing counterparty risk that sets limits to the exposure we can have based on an individual counterpartys credit rating from independent rating agencies.
Limits are monitored daily and amended as credit ratings change and are set on a portfolio basis to ensure that our total exposure is acceptable.
Given the economic uncertainties in the eurozone, we consider other leading indicators of counterparty distress and reduce exposure below the approved limits, if 18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses appropriate.
Where multiple financial transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a netting arrangement is usually put in place to reduce our exposure to the credit risk arising.
More information about managing counterparty risk is given in note 27 c to the consolidated financial statements.
Employees and others We need to attract and retain employees with the skills and experience required to deliver our strategy.
We also need to ensure they and others acting on our behalf, are engaged to act in our best interests.
Our responses To demonstrate our commitment to this important area, one of our 2012 13 priorities is to increase levels of employee engagement across all of our teams.
We will use our engaging for performance framework, see page 8, to deliver this priority.
We are confident that we understand our resource and skills gaps in our gas transmission business and plans are in place to respond to these risks.
Plans are not just aimed at recruiting qualified engineers with experience in our industry, but recognise that we must look more widely, identifying capable individuals we can train and develop to create a talent pipeline that will support our growth over time.
In our Gas Distribution business, plans are being developed to ensure this is also the case.
We also continue to work closely with existing partners, and when appropriate, will seek to create new partnerships.
Through our partnerships we can leverage external resources, expertise and best practices to supplement our internal knowledge and experience and ensure that we can deliver our planned capital investment programme.
We maintain a strong commitment to ethical business conduct.
National Grids ethics and compliance office was established specifically to answer questions and address concerns about unethical behaviour affecting National Grids businesses.
Information assurance The Board of National Grid considers that it is imperative to have accurate and reliable information to enable informed and timely decisions to be taken that further our objectives.
Key elements in managing information assurance risks include education, training and awareness.
These initiatives emphasise the importance of information security, the quality of data collection and the affirmation process that supports our business transactions, evidencing our decisions and actions.
All communication channels, including training for doing the right thing, make it clear that the accurate and honest reporting of data and other information must never be compromised.
These initiatives are supported by the letter of assurance process in which managers affirm, among other things, they have control frameworks in place to ensure data and other information is reported accurately.
In line with ongoing transformation initiatives, we continue to monitor and evolve our control processes.
