4 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Our business model What we do: UK gas industry For shippers who use the system, there is also a commodity The UK gas industry has four main sectors.
charge based on the actual flows of gas into the NTS.
Production and importation other companies Distribution National Grid Gas and others The modern gas industry in Great Britain is an organisational Gas exits the NTS at 49 offtake points where it is odorised.
It is chain from production, processing, storage, transmission and transported in the distribution networks at various pressures distribution through to the supply of industrial and commercial ranging from 75 bar down to 21 mbar for final delivery to users and domestic users.
Gas is sourced by extraction from consumers.
offshore gas fields in the North Sea and Irish Sea, interconnection with Europe, and through LNG imports.
There Within the distribution networks, gas storage is used to help also remains a small amount of onshore production.
manage daily variation in demand.
Gas producers, LNG importers and interconnector operators In the UK, there are 13 local distribution zones grouped into bring gas onshore.
In the UK, there are seven gas reception eight regional distribution networks.
We own four of the eight terminals, three LNG importation terminals and three distribution networks and three other companies own the other interconnectors, connecting Great Britain with Ireland, Belgium four.
The commodity is transported on behalf of shippers.
Shippers contract with National Grid Gas and other gas We do not participate in the production of gas for the UK distribution network operators to transport their gas to market, the transportation of LNG by sea or the importation of consumers.
The transportation charges shippers pay for the LNG.
use of gas distribution networks are ultimately passed on to consumers.
Gas producers and importers sell the gas to licensed shippers, who then own the gas as it travels through the transmission and The transportation charges reflect the costs of building, distribution networks.
We are not a gas shipper: we do not buy maintaining and operating the networks, and also the costs of or sell the gas, we transport it.
operating a 24 hour gas emergency telephone helpline and emergency response.
LNG importers pay for the right to land LNG at importation terminals.
As with the transmission system, the owners of the distribution networks do not buy or sell gas.
Transmission National Grid Gas only Gas producers supply gas to our national transmission system Supply other companies NTS through reception terminals.
Although consumers in the UK have a choice of gas supply company, the gas is physically delivered to most consumers Gas from the importation terminals is injected into the NTS after premises through a pipe belonging to the local distribution it has been checked for quality including checking its calorific network.
Our distribution networks deliver gas to approximately value.
Gas previously extracted from the NTS and held in 10.8 million consumers.
storage may be reintroduced into the system.
Although we do not sell gas, and are not involved in billing The NTS operates at pressures of up to 91 bar, transporting consumers, we consider all consumers connected to our gas in high grade welded steel pipes of up to 1.2 metres distribution network to be customers because our activities diameter.
The compressor stations play a vital role in keeping directly affect them.
large quantities of gas flowing through the system, particularly at times of high demand.
Consumers contract with gas supply companies for the supply of gas.
The supply companies in turn contract with gas shippers We are the sole owner and operator of gas transmission who purchase the gas and arrange for it to be transported.
Suppliers also contract with metering companies such as Shippers pay us for the use of the NTS via entry and exit National Grid Metering, which we own and which provides capacity charges.
Shipping involves buying the gas from meters and metering services.
producers, arranging for it to be conveyed to supply points and selling it on to suppliers.
Of the average domestic residential bill, at May 2012, transmission charges were approximately 2% and distribution Entry capacity allows shippers to put gas into the NTS at charges approximately 19%.
The majority of the bill is the cost system entry points.
Entry capacity is sold in a variety of of gas itself.
auctions, ranging from daily to quarterly.
Exit capacity allows shippers to take gas off the NTS at exit points or offtakes into distribution networks and to other customers who are supplied directly from the NTS.
