Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 114 115 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies a Corporate information a Basis of preparation New World Resources Plc NWR Plc or the Company is a public limited liability company with its registered office at One Silk Street, These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom UK.
adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
In accordance with these requirements, the Companys consolidated financial results and financial position prior to date the Company became the new holding company of the Group previously held by NWR NV are those The Company was incorporated in the UK on 30 March 2011 as part of a corporate reorganisation process under which, on 6 May 2011, of NWR NV.
it became the holding company for the businesses previously held by New World Resources N. V. NWR NV.
The reorganisation did not lead to a change in control and did not result in any changes to the day-to-day operations of the Group.
For more details see Note 21.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at their fair value.
They are presented in Euro EUR and rounded to the nearest thousand.
Financial statements of operations The objective of the Company is to act as a holding company for the Group.
with functional currency other than EUR were translated to the Group presentation currency.
The functional currency of NWR Plc and NWR NV is EUR.
The functional currency of NWR Karbonia is Polish Zloty PLN.
The functional currency of NWR Services is British BXR Mining B. V. an investment, public limited company, is the major shareholder of the Company, holding approximately 64% of the Pound GBP.
The functional currency of the remaining consolidated companies is Czech Crown CZK.
For details refer to the Note Companys A shares.
100% of the Companys B shares are owned by RPG Property B. V. The financial information of the Company will be 2d ii.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
included in the consolidated financial statements of BXR Group B. V. A shares of the Company are listed on stock exchanges in London, Warsaw and Prague.
The ultimate parent of the Company, BXR Mining B. V. RPG Property B. V. and BXR Group B. V. is BXR Group Limited.
Going concern basis of accounting The Group manages its liquidity through cash EUR 267,011 thousand 2011: EUR 536,910 thousand and a EUR 100,000 thousand These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25March 2013.
Revolving Credit Facility undrawn at 31 December 2012 which is available until February 2014, subject to compliance with certain covenants.
b The Group The consolidated financial statements include New World Resources Plc and its subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys In anticipation of not being able to meet the requirements of one of the covenants at the end of the first quarter, the Company is subsidiaries as at 31December 2012 are: currently negotiating revised terms for both the ECA and RCF including suspension of covenants testing.
Should the negotiations fail, the ECA loan would have to be repaid and the RCF would not be available to the Company.
Based on its Consolidated subsidiaries Abbreviation % voting shares Nature of Activity base case forecasts the Company does not believe that it would need to borrow further funds until at least 31 March 2014, whether Entity directly owned by the Company: or not the ECA and RCF remain available.
New World Resources N. V. NWR NV 100% Management services However, if the currently depressed coking coal prices do not improve which the Directors consider to be highly unlikely the Group New World Resources Services Ltd NWR Services 100% Management services would, absent mitigating actions, need further funding before that time.
The Company has a number of mitigating actions available including accelerating the sale of its inventories, reducing operating costs, factoring receivables and further reducing deferring capital Entities directly owned by NWR NV: expenditure, which it believes would provide sufficient liquidity until at least 31 March 2014.
OKD, a. s. OKD 100% Coal mining Based on this analysis, the Directors are of the opinion that the NWR Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating OKK Koksovny, a. s. OKK 100% Coke production for the foreseeable future that is until 31 March 2014 and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
NWR KARBONIA S. A. NWR Karbonia 100% Coal mining NWR Communications, s. r. o. NWRC 100% Public relations New standards and interpretations adopted during the financial year The accounting policies used in preparation of these financial statements are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following amended standards have been adopted: Entity directly owned by OKD: OKD, HBZS, a. s. HBZS 100% Emergency services and waste processing Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes Recovery of Underlying Assets effective 1January 2012 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instrument: Disclosures Transfer of Financial Assets effective 1 July 2011 For changes in the Group during the year presented see Changes in consolidated group below.
These amendments do not have an impact on the financial statements of the Group.
All of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries are incorporated in the Czech Republic, with the exception of NWR Karbonia Poland, NWR Services UK and NWR NV The Netherlands.
c Changes in the consolidated group in 2012 A new subsidiary New World Resources Services Ltd was established on 1 October 2012 to perform management services.
On 9 October 2012, the Company completed the process of compulsory squeeze-out under which it acquired the remaining shares in NWR NV and became its sole shareholder.
