Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2012 176 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes Designed and produced by Dynamo design s. r. o. www.
cz Disclaimer and Cautionary Note on Forward Looking Statements and Notes on Certain Other Matters Certain statements in this document are not historical facts and are or are deemed to be forward-looking.
The Companys prospects, plans, financial position and business strategy, and statements pertaining to the capital resources, future expenditure for development projects and results of operations, may constitute forward-looking statements.
In addition, forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology including, but not limited to: may, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, foresee, will, could, may, might, believe or continue or the negatives of these terms or variations of them or similar terminology.
Although the Company has made every effort to assure the accuracy of the used information and believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
These forward-looking statements involve a number of factors, risks, uncertainties and other facts that may cause actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and may be beyond NWRs ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performances.
Factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected can be a result of or include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in political, economic and social conditions in the Czech Republic, Poland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the Central and Eastern Europe region: future prices and demand for the Companys products, and demand for the Companys customers products: coal mine reserves: remaining life of the Companys mines: coal production: trends in the coal industry and domestic and international coal market conditions: risks in coal mining operations: future expansion plans and capital expenditures: the Companys relationship with, and conditions affecting, the Companys customers: competition: railroad and other transportation performance and costs: availability of specialist and qualified workers: weather conditions or catastrophic damage: risks relating to Dutch, UK, Czech or Polish law, regulations and taxation, including laws, regulations, decrees and decisions governing the coal mining industry, the environment and currency and exchange controls relating to Czech and Polish entities and their official interpretation by governmental and other regulatory bodies and by the courts: developments in the financial markets: and risks relating to global economic conditions and the global economic environment.
Additional risk factors are as described in this Annual Report.
Forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this document.
The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release, publicly or otherwise, any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this report to reflect any change in its expectations or any change in events, conditions, assumptions or circumstances on which any such statement is based unless so required by applicable law.
New World Resources Plc c o Hackwood Secretaries Limited One Silk Street London EC2Y 8HQ United Kingdom Headquarters: Jachthavenweg 109h 1081 KM Amsterdam The Netherlands For investor enquiries please contact: NWR Investor Relations Tel: 31 20 570 2270 E-mail: ir@nwrgroup.
eu For media enquiries please contact: NWR Communications Tel: 420 225 282 451 Fax: 420 225 282 415 E-mail: pr@nwrgroup.
