Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 120 121 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on a weighted average method and The estimated useful lives are as follow: includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, the cost of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing them to their Buildings 3045 years existing location and condition.
Plant and equipment 415 years Other 4 years The cost of merchandise is the acquisition cost on a weighted average basis.
The cost of raw materials is the purchase cost on aweighted average basis.
The cost of work-in-progress and finished goods is astandard cost based on the cost of direct materials and Mining works are depreciated on astraight-line basis based on their estimated useful life, as an approximate to the units of production labour plus attributable production overheads based on anormal level of activity.
At operations that produce joint products products method.
arising from a common production process and each of which has a significant relative value, cost is allocated amongst the products on the basis of their relative values selling price.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and variable selling expenses.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date.
j Cash and cash equivalents g Intangible assets Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and investments in marketable securities that are readily convertible to i Licenses known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturity of three months and less.
Licenses represent the coal reserve license owned by OKD.
The coal reserve is the exclusive deposit and creates the mineral wealth of the Czech Republic and the licenses allow OKD to extract coal from this deposit.
Licences are stated at cost less amortisation and k Restricted deposits impairment losses.
Restricted balances of deposits cash and investments in government bonds, which are shown under non-current financial assets as restricted funds, relate to funds set aside to settle mining damages and restoration expenses and deposits with manufacturers of equipment ii Other intangible assets the Group has on order.
The current non-current classification is based on the expected timing of the release of the funds of the Group.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
l Impairment iii Amortisation i Non-financial assets Amortisation of licences for the period is calculated as a proportion of the coal amount actually mined in this period to the total The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, excluding exploration and evaluation assets see accounting policy g v, economically exploitable coal reserves as estimated by management.
inventories see accounting policy i and deferred tax assets see accounting policy t iii, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Amortisation of other intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Amortisation methods, useful lives An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or the cash-generating unit to which it and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date.
belongs exceeds its recoverable amount.
A cash-generating unit CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other non-financial assets and groups of assets.
iv Emission rights Emission rights represent the right of the owner of a facility, which in the course of its operation emits greenhouse gases, to emit Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGU are allocated to reduce during the calendar year an equivalent of one tonne of carbon dioxide CO. the carrying amount of the assets in the CGU groups of CGU on a pro rata basis.
2 Based on the Czech Republic National Allocation Plan covering period up to 2020, the Group was granted appropriate quantity of Calculation of recoverable amount emission rights for its coking operations for free.
The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset or the CGU to which it belongs is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows generated by the asset or the CGU are discounted to their Emission rights are accounted for using the net liability method EFRAG.
Under this method, emission rights allocated from the present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific Government are measured at their nominal amount, which is nil.
to the non-financial assets or CGU.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash v Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources inflows of other assets or CGU and for such a non-financial asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the Expenditures on exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources are charged to the income statement as incurred, until the Group recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
determines that commercially viable coal reserves exist.
Reversals of impairment Thereafter, costs are capitalised as mining licences or property, plant and equipment as appropriate.
Such costs are only tested Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or for impairment where facts and circumstances suggest the carrying value may exceed the recoverable amount.
If such facts and no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
circumstances exist an impairment test is carried out in line with accounting policy I i.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would h Trade and other receivables have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement receivables are subsequently carried at their amortised cost using the effective interest method less any ii Non-derivative financial assets allowance for impairment see accounting policy l. A non-derivative financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A non-derivative financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of can be estimated reliably.
Objective evidence that non-derivative financial assets are impaired can include default or delinquency by ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group a debtor, restructuring of an amount due by a debtor on terms that would not be considered otherwise by the Group, indications that a debtor is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
or issuer will enter bankruptcy, economic conditions that correlate with defaults or the disappearance of an active market for a security.
