Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 116 117 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits The Groups accounting policy for employee benefits requires management to make estimates and assumptions about discount rate, New standards and interpretations endorsed by the European Union but not effective yet future remuneration changes, changes in benefits, life expectancy, retirement age, number of employees and expected remaining The Group is currently assessing the potential impacts of the following new and revised standards and interpretations that have been periods of service of employees.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on the carrying value of the issued but are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2012: employee benefit provision.
Refer to Note 25 for details of the key assumptions.
Amendment to IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income effective 1 July 2012 b Basis of consolidation Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits effective 1 January 2013 i Subsidiaries IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2011, effective 1 January 2014 The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated statements from the date that control commences until the IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as revised in 2011, effective 1 January 2014 date that control ceases.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instrument: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective 1 January 2014 or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instrument: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective 1 January 2013 potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2014 ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities effective 1 January 2014 Intragroup balances and transactions and unrealised gains arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine effective 1 January 2013 there is no evidence of impairment.
These new standards, amendments and interpretations should not have material impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
iii Changes in ownership interest without a loss of control A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Judgments, estimates and assumptions made in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and iv Loss of control assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Upon the loss of control, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss.
If the Set out below is information about: Group retains any interest in an entity that was previously a subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently it is accounted for as an equity-accounted investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending Critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial on the level of influence retained.
statements: and Assumption and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within next financial year.
v Business combination involving entities under common control A business combination involving entities or businesses under common control is a business combination in which all of the Group Critical judgments, estimates and assumptions entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the business combination, and that Coal reserves control is not transitory.
Economically recoverable coal reserves represent the estimated quantity of product in an area of interests that can be expected to be profitably extracted, processed and sold under current and foreseeable economic conditions.
The determination of coal reserves In the absence of more specific guidance, the Group entities consistently applied the book value measurement method to all common includes estimates and assumptions about range of geological, technical and economic factors, including: quantities, grades, control transactions.
Differences between consideration paid and carrying value of acquired net assets is recognised as a change in production techniques, recovery rates, productions costs, transportation costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange consolidated equity.
Changes in coal reserves impact the assessment of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount of mining licences depreciated on unit of production basis and mine closure and restoration provision.
The amounts of these assets and The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interest are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative provision are set out in the Notes 10, 11, 23. interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
Restoration and mine closure provisions Determining the cost of restoration, rehabilitation, and mine closure during mining activities in accordance with the Groups accounting c Principles for preparation of the statement of cash flows policy q, requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including: the appropriate discount rate, the timing of the cash Cash flow is presented using the indirect method.
Net cash flows from operating activities are reconciled from profit before tax and flows, expected life of the relevant mine, the application of relevant environmental legislation, and the future expected costs of non-controlling interests NCI.
Interest received is classified as an investing activity as it mainly relates to investments.
Interest paid restoration, rehabilitation and mine closure.
is classified as an operating activity.
Changes in the estimates and assumptions used to determine the cost of restoration, rehabilitation and mine closure could have a d Foreign currency material impact on the carrying value of the restoration and mine closure provision and relevant asset.
The provision recognised for i Foreign currency transactions each mine is reviewed at each reporting date and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at that time.
The carrying Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the value of the provision is set out in Note 23. transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Impairment of assets income statement.
The recoverable amount of each non financial asset or cash-generating unit CGU is determined as the higher of the value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell, in accordance with the Groups accounting policy l. Determination of the recoverable amount of an asset or ii Foreign operations CGU based on a discounted cash flow model requires the use of estimates and assumptions, including: the appropriate discount rate, Assets and liabilities of operations with functional currency other than EUR are translated to EUR at the exchange rate at the reporting the timing of the cash flow and expected life of the relevant area of interest, exchange rates, coal and coke prices, reserves, future date: income statement items of operations with functional currency other than EUR are translated at exchange rates approximating capital requirements and future operating performance.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions impact the recoverable amount the rates at the dates of the transactions.
Equity items are translated at historical exchange rates.
The exchange differences arising on of the asset or CGU, and accordingly could result in an adjustment to the carrying amount of that asset or CGU.
translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an operation with functional currency other than EUR in full or in part, the relevant amount of accumulated exchange differences is transferred to the income statement.
