Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 122 123 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other Loans and receivables performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The Group considers evidence of impairment for loans and receivables at both a specific asset and collective level.
All individually significant receivables are assessed for specific impairment.
All individually significant loans and receivables found not to be Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment receivables that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together loans and receivables arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured as the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet In assessing collective impairment, information about historical trends of the probability of default, the timing of recoveries and the recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either amount of loss incurred is used, adjusted for managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such the entity or the counterparty are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated that the actual losses are likely to be greater or less than suggested by historical trends.
as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
An impairment loss in respect of a non-derivative financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Losses are recognised in income statement and reflected in an allowance accounts against loans and receivables.
Transactions with cash-alternative The cost of transactions with a cash-alternative is measured initially at fair value at the grant date.
This fair value is expensed over the Calculation of recoverable amount period until the vesting date with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date The recoverable amount of loans and receivables is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted to their up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
present value using the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Loans and receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
q Provisions Reversals of impairment A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past When a subsequent event e. g. repayment by a debtor causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment event that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the loss is reversed through income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of loans and receivables carried at amortised cost is reversed if effect of time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
a current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
m Non-controlling interest Mine closure, restoration, and mining damages provisions The non-controlling interest in the statement of financial position and income statement represents the non-controlling proportion An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the of the net assets of the consolidated but not wholly owned subsidiaries at the year-end and a share of results for the year, which is development or ongoing production of a mining property and the Group is liable for environmental damage caused by mining activities.
attributable to the non-controlling shareholders.
These future costs generally include restoration and remediation of land and disturbed areas, mine closure costs, including the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials, and mining damages costs.
n Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Decommissioning of mine sites and land and disturbed areas restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining.
The majority of interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in mine closure and rehabilitation expenditure is incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Related gains and losses are recognised in the is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current income statement at the settlement date.
o Employee benefits Restoration costs and clean-up of land used for mining activities are liabilities to restore the land to the condition it was in prior to the The Groups obligation in respect of long-term service benefits is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return mining activities or as stated in the relevant licences.
These costs are incurred during the mining activity and can continue for many for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques.
The mine closure costs include estimated costs of to its present value.
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on Czech government bonds that have maturity dates mine levels and pits closure, and capping of pits after removal of the surface construction.
approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
Provisions for land restoration and mine closure costs are recognised as the net present value of the estimated outflow of economic p Share-based payment transactions resources to settle the obligation.
Provisions are structured as land restoration and mine closure costs provision.
Land restoration and Certain employees including senior executives of the Group receive part of the remuneration for their services in the form mine closure costs represent apart of the acquisition cost of fixed assets and such assets are depreciated over the useful life of the of share-based payment transactions.
mines using the linear depreciation method.
Any change in the estimate of restoration costs is recognised within fixed assets and is depreciated over the remaining useful life of the mines.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income which they are granted.
The fair value is determined based on the market price listed on the stock exchange and whenever appropriate statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost, rather than as an operating cost.
Mining damages costs are liabilities to reimburse all immediate damages caused by mining activities to third party assets.
Mining damages The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the costs are assessed by the Group for each individual project.
This assessment is reviewed and approved by the Czech Mining Authority.
performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting r Trade and other payables date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that Trade and other payables are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods or services received, whether or not invoiced will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised by the supplier.
Trade and other payables are initially stated at fair value and then subsequently at amortised cost.
as at the beginning and end of that period.
