Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 118 119 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost also includes the estimated cost of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site, to the extent that it is initially recognised as aprovision under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities e Derivative financial instruments and Contingent Assets.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as for example forward currency contracts, interest rate swap and interest rate collar contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest risk.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially Mining works are classified under the Land and Buildings class of property, plant and equipment.
They are stated at cost less recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value.
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Once approved, expenditure relating to a mining project that is designed to access Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
a new mine level or to construction of new mining works cross cuts, blind shafts, storage places, bins and mining depots, other auxiliary constructions etc.
are capitalised only if both following conditions are satisfied: Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the ineffective portion of an effective hedge, are taken to the income statement.
mining work has useful life exceeding one year and such construction is necessary for accessing the new mining level or new areas of interest.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and interest rate collar contracts is the estimated amount that the Group These expenditures are capitalised and classified as construction in progress and the capitalisation ceases when the constructed would receive or pay to terminate the contract at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current mining work is finalised and ready for use.
These costs are reclassified as land and buildings and depreciated from when the project creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Expenditure for technical improvement of mining works are capitalised, even if they are not related to accessing a new mine level, but they represent a technical improvement of existing mining works.
cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm Other mine development costs related to construction of undersurface located supporting structures operational mining works commitment.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedges items fair value or cash ii Borrowing costs flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or Borrowing costs from specifically draw down borrowings or generally used borrowings, which are directly attributable to the cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use reporting periods for which they were designed.
or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Cash flow hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: iii Leased assets The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the hedging The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease involves an assessment based on the substance of the reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
arrangement at inception date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use an asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged forecasted sale or expenditure occurs.
a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: If the forecasted transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependant on a specified asset: or comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised d there is a substantial change to the asset.
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting shall commence or cease from the date when the change in circumstances gives rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b.
Current versus non-current classification Derivative instruments that are not a designated as effective hedging instrument are classified as current or non-current or separated Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits related to ownership of the leased item, are into a current and non-current portion based on an assessment of the facts and circumstances i. e. the underlying contracted cash flows.
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve Where the Group will hold a derivative as an economic hedge and does not apply hedge accounting, for a period beyond 12 months a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
after the reporting date, the derivative is classified as non-current or separated into current and non-current portions consistent with the classification of the underlying item.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Derivative instruments that are designated as and are effective hedging instruments are classified consistently with the classification of the underlying hedged item.
The derivative instrument is separated into a current portion and non-current portion iv Subsequent expenditure only if a reliable allocation can be made.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The costs of f Property, plant and equipment the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes v Depreciation expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the asset including borrowing costs for long-term Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately.
Land and assets in construction are not depreciated.
