Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 172 173 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Glossary A removal of a volatile fraction.
The process COP 2010: the Coking Plant Optimisation development.
Detailed feasibility studies Extraction: the process of mining and Greenfield sites: undeveloped land in a city ARA ports: Antwerp Rotterdam of calcination derives its name from the Programme is a capital investment require a significant amount of formal removal of coal or ore from a mine.
or rural area either used for agriculture, Amsterdam ports.
Major coal importing Latin calcinare to burn lime due to its most programme designed to improve the engineering work.
landscape design, or left to naturally evolve.
common application, the decomposition of productivity of its coking operation.
EXW: ex works is a trade term requiring These areas of land are usually agricultural calcium carbonate limestone to calcium DTR: Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the seller to deliver goods at his or her own or amenity properties being considered for B oxide lime and carbon dioxide, in order to CSI: the Corporate Social Investment place of business.
All other transportation urban development.
Benzole absorption cooler, or benzole produce cement.
comprises of finances provided for E costs and risks are assumed by the buyer.
washing unit: an apparatus designed to projects in the following areas: community EBITDA: The Company defines EBITDA as GRI: Global Reporting Initiative is a absorb benzole from the coke oven gas CE: Central Europe, refers to the following development OKD Foundation : support net profit before non-controlling interests, F non-profit organisation that promotes using washing oil.
countries Austria, Czech Republic, for enterprise and job creation: health income tax, net financial costs, depreciation Foundry coke: coke used in furnaces to economic, environmental and social Germany, Hungary, Liechtenstein, Poland, OKD Foundation projects : culture OKD and amortisation, impairment of property, produce cast and ductile iron products.
GRI provides all companies Benzole stripping column: a still distillation Slovakia, Slovenia and Switzerland.
Foundation projects : education donations plant and equipment PPE and gains is a source of heat and also helps maintain and organisations with a comprehensive column, also commonly referred to as a to schools, scholarships, environment losses from the sale of PPE.
While the the required carbon content of the metal sustainability reporting framework that is benzole stripper.
The apparatus is used CE4: Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and finances provided over and above the amounts included in EBITDA are derived product.
Foundry coke production requires widely used around the world.
to remove benzole from the washing oil by Hungary.
from the Groups financial information, it lower temperatures and longer times than means of steam.
is not a financial measure determined in blast furnace coke.
H CE6: Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Crude steel: first solid steel product upon accordance with adopted IFRS.
Hard coal: another name for anthracite, Blast furnace coke: coke used to power Slovakia, Poland and Hungary.
In other Fossil Fuels: defined as fuels formed the coal with the highest level of carbon blast furnaces.
Blast furnace coke has words, it includes Ingots in conventional EBITDA margin: shows earnings by natural resources such as anaerobic and the lowest level of impurities.
Both particularly strong properties to support CHP: full name Combined Heat and mills and Semis in modern mills with before interest, tax, depreciation and decomposition of buried dead organisms.
metallurgical coking coal and thermal coal the chemical process and the heavy loads Power.
CHP is a process which involves continuous casting facility.
According amortisation from continuing operations The fossil fuels, which contain high are forms of hard coal.
in the blast furnace without disintegrating the simultaneous generation of heat and to International Iron & Steel Institute and before exceptional items as a percentages of carbon, include coal, from the high temperatures in the furnace.
The heat recovered is used to IISI, for statistical purpose, crude steel percentage of total revenues.
Hard coking coal: refers to a type of coking It is also referred to as metallurgical coke.
also includes liquid steel which goes into coal which enables the coke to be more production of steel castings.
EIA: Environmental Impact Assessment Free cash flow: Free cash flow is efficient in steel making when it converts Box-cut: small open-cut created to CIP: the Continuous Improvement is a procedure that ensures that the calculated as net operating cash flow iron ore to raw steel.
provide a secure and safe portal to access Programme is aimed at improving Customer markets: NWR supplies its environmental implications of decisions minus capital expenditure.
operational efficiency by rewarding products to Austria, Czech Republic, are taken into account before the decisions J employees who submit innovative ideas Germany, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary.
Environmental assessment FTSE 250: the Financial Times-Stock JORC: the Joint Ore Reserves Committee Brownfield sites: abandoned or underused and suggestions.
The reward is correlated can be undertaken for individual projects Exchange 250 share index is a produces the JORC Code - a professional industrial and commercial facilities with the money saved from the idea.
D on the basis of Directive 85 337 EEC, as  index of 250 UK code of practice that sets minimum available for re-use.
Dbiesko: a development project of NWR amended known as Environmental Impact domiciled companies on the London Stock standards for public reporting of minerals Coal: readily combustible rock, formed from in Poland.
NWR holds a 50-year mining Assessment EIA Directive.
exploration results, mineral resources and BTXs benzene, toluene and xylene plant remains that have been compacted, license.
also known as BTEX or BTX fraction: chemically altered and metamorphosed by Emerging Europe: refers to European FTSE 350 Mining: the Financial Timesis the term used for benzene, toluene, heat and pressure over millions of years.
Deep mining: the extraction of coal or its countries that are in the process of growth Stock Exchange 350 Mining share index K ethylbenzene, and xylene-volatile aromatic and industrialisation.
is a  index of 350 products from layers of rock by underground Karvin expansion project: a development compounds typically found in petroleum Coke: carbonaceous material derived from mining methods such as room-and-pillar UK domiciled mining companies on the project of NWR in the Czech Republic.
The products, such as gasoline and diesel the destructive distillation of coal.
Emission: pollution discharged into the London Stock Exchange.
Company announced its plans for hard atmosphere by commercial or industrial fuel.
BTX fraction is mixture of polycyclic coal exploitation at the Karvin Star aromatic hydrocarbons PAHs containing Coke battery: a coke battery is composed Deposit: refers to an area of coal resources facilities, or by motor vehicle, locomotive G Msto site in 2011.
The long-term mining benzene, toluene and xylene which are of many coke ovens stacked horizontally or reserves identified by surface mapping, or aircraft exhausts.
Gateroad development: allows the coal outlook grades the site as containing more produced during the process of making into which coking coal is tightly packed.
seam to be accessed, and for material and than 30 million tonnes of extractable coal coke from coal.
These ovens are heated to temperatures of Employee turnover rate: is calculation of people to travel to and from the coal face.
Subject to a successful outcome up to 1,150C, allowing the coking coal to Desulphurisation unit: the Svoboda coking the number of employees who have left the Longwall panels are demarcated by a set in the related legislative process, mining By-product: material other than the principal turn into coke.
plant uses coking gas containing hydrogen company voluntarily or due to dismissal, of interconnected underground gateroads.
should commence in 2016 and last for product generated by an industrial process.
As the gas retirement or death in service and it is approximately 20 years.
Coke conversion costs per tonne: reflect burns, sulphur dioxide is generated.
In order expressed as a percentage of the average GDP: Gross Domestic Product is the total C the operating costs incurred in converting to minimise any leakage of such emissions number of employees in the year.
value of all goods and services produced KPI: Key Performance Indicators are a set CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate, a coking coal into coke.
It does not include into the air the process line of the coking within a particular economy in a given of quantifiable measures that a company number that describes the steady rate at the cost of coking coal charge.
It includes plant includes a desulphurisation unit EU: also referred to as the EU-27 refers to period of time.
or industry uses to gauge or compare which the initial value would have to grow consumption of material, energy, services where sulphur dioxide is eliminated using all 27 constituents of the European Union.
performance in terms of meeting their every year to achieve the specific end excluding transportation, personnel a sodium carbonate solution STRETFORD Gearing ratio: gearing ratio is defined as strategic and operational goals.
It does not scrubbing method.
EVA: Economic Value Added is a residual net debt divided by EBITDA calculated on vary between companies and industries, include depreciation and amortisation.
wealth created after deducting from net a twelve-month rolling basis.
depending on their priorities or performance Calcination: is a thermal treatment Detailed Feasibility Study: a study that operating profit after tax NOPAT the criteria.
process in presence of air applied to ores Coking coal: high volatility coal used to provides the budget parameters for a capital charge, which represents the cost and other solid materials to bring about a create coke, which is consumed in the project and allows decisions to be made of invested capital necessary to generate Kt: kilotonne, one thousand 1,000 metric thermal decomposition, phase transition, or steel-making process.
whether to proceed to the next level of that profit.
Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 174 175 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Glossary L O under normal indoor atmospheric conditions Resources: all of the potential minerals Stamp charging process: during the U Longwall mining: a fully mechanised OECD: Organisation for Economic of temperature and pressure.
VOCs may in a defined area based on points of stamp charging process the carefully UHF tags: a RFID tag full name Radio underground mining technique in which Co-operation and Development is an contribute to the formation of ground-level observation and extrapolations from those ground and mixed coal is compacted Frequency Identification, data collection a coal face is excavated by a shearer organisation that acts as a meeting ozone and photochemical smog.
Potential minerals are defined outside the coke oven, into a stable coal technology that uses electronic tags for and then transported to the surface ground for 30 countries which believe in as minerals which have been or could be blocks with almost the same dimensions storing data works in a portion of the ultra by conveyor belt.
the free market system and provides a PCI : full name Pulverised Coal Injection.
beneficiated to give a quality acceptable as the oven chamber and the resulting high frequency UHF range.
forum for discussing issues and reaching PCI coking coal is injected into a blast for commercial usage in the foreseeable block is pushed into the oven.
LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate agreements, some of which are legally furnace as a supplementary fuel to reduce future and excludes minor mineral Underground mining: the extraction represents the number of reportable binding.
the amount of coke consumed, having occurrences.
St Barbara Civic Association: of coal or its products from layers of rock injuries causing at least three days a knock-on effect on reducing operating Saint Barbara Civic Associationwas by underground mining methods such of absence per million hours worked.
OKD: the wholly owned mining subsidiary of costs in the production of pig iron, and RFID: full name Radio Frequency founded 24 July 2004 for the purpose of as room-and-pillar mining and longwall Includes contractors.
OKD extracts coking and thermal coal ultimately crude steel.
A data collection technology helping children, whose at least mining.
in four active mines in the Upper Silesian that uses electronic tags for storing data.
one parent died as a result of an M Coal Basin.
OKD is the only hard coal mining PERSP 2015: the PERSPective 2015 accident at work, mostly in the coalmine Upper Silesian Coal Basin: a coal basin in M1 category: equipment classified under company in the Czech Republic.
programme is aimed to maximise the S industry.
The Association currently has Silesia in Poland and the Czech Republic.
the M1 category may be operated, unlike returns on our recent investments in SAP: full name Systems Applications and 87 records in Czech, Polish and Slovak The area contains a number of mineable M2 category equipment, under conditions OKD Foundation: OKD Foundation was state of the art technology and health Products in Data Processing.
A German children, which contributes to the study, resources including lead, silver and zinc: of increased methane concentrations, set up at the start of 2008 with a view to and safety.
The plan focuses on five main  that leisure activities and supports the care and resources of coal reach depths of exceeding 1.5 per cent.
That allows the promoting and developing humanitarian areas: People, Efficiency, Reserves, Safety makesenterprise softwareto manage of their health.
1000 metres below ground, approximately controller to maintain a continuous oversight values, the environment, education, and Predictability.
business operations and customer 70 billion tonnes of coal.
of the presence and movement of employees sport and cultural activities, and the relations.
SAP develops ERP products to Steam coal: coal used for steam within monitored areas of the mine.
Being field of social and healthcare services.
POP 2010: the Productivity Optimisation be used by companies to manage their generation principally in thermal power V fitted with an accumulator and a battery, OKD Foundation was established by the Programme major capital investment enterprise.
This includes managing their plants.
Voluntary employee turnover: is a the equipment remains operational even NWR subsidiary OKD, which is also the programme designed to improve the day-to-day operations, logistics, finances, calculation of the total number of during a power-supply failure.
OKD annually productivity of its mines.
Completed in month end, quarter end and yearly Subfloor mining: Mining of raw materials employees who have left the company donates 1 per cent of its profit before tax 2010. activities, reporting, HR etc.
from a level located underneath the fresh minus employees who have left due to Metallurgical coal: an informally to OKD Foundation.
Subfloor mining may dismissal, retirement, death in service recognised name for bituminous coal that Preparation plant: a plant used to make raw Seam: a geological structure containing sometimes refer to any mining activities if or health reasons and it is expressed as is suitable for making coke by industries OKK: a wholly owned coking subsidiary of coal a product suitable for a particular use.
a series of layers of coal, shale and other the longwall panel is operated below the a percentage of the average number of that refine, smelt and work with iron.
Situated at the Svoboda coking plant mineral materials of varying thicknesses.
Generally, this coal will have less than site in Ostrava, produces both foundry and Q 1 per cent sulphur and less than 8 per cent blast furnace coke from four batteries.
Quenching tower: water spraying tower Shaft: a mine working usually vertical T ash on an air-dried basis.
Metallurgical coal OKK is the largest producer of foundry coke for cooling coke after it emerges from the used to transport miners, supplies, ore and Tectonic stress release: occurs as a result is sometimes referred to as coking coal.
of energy releases in the mass of rock from the creation of empty underground spaces.
Mining costs per tonne: reflect the operating Open-pit mining: mining in which the coal R Shaft deepening projects: projects to The rock is stressed by the extraction of costs incurred in the coal segment for is extracted after removing the overlying Reclamation: the restoration of land and deepen the shaft to mine more, previously ore, pressure is created in it and energy mining both coking coal and thermal coal.
environmental value to a surface mine site unreachable coal.
is accumulated, which can be released in It includes consumption of material and after the coal is extracted.
Reclamation an instant by a rockfall.
Bumps and slides energy, services excluding transportation, Operational Programme Environment: operations usually get underway as soon Skip bucket: a type of bucket used to take occur mainly in saddle seams, where there personnel and other operating expenses.
the Operational Programmes main goal as the coal has been removed from the extracted coal from the underground to is solid overlying rock.
It does not include depreciation and is to protect and improve environmental a mine site.
The process includes restoring the surface.
quality throughout the Czech Republic.
the land to its approximate original Thermal coal: coal used in combustion Between 2007 and 2013, this programme appearance by restoring topsoil and Sludge: high ash reject material from processes by power producers and Mining face: the working area where will offer almost EUR 5 billion from the planting native grasses and ground covers.
the fine coal washing circuits that can industrial users to produce steam for the extraction of coal takes place in an Cohesion Fund and the European Regional be recovered and re-processed to sell power and heat.
Redomiciliation reincorporation: as additional coal blending it with other the process by which a company moves products.
Tonne: a metric tonne, a measure of mass Mining license: permission to mine P its domicile from one jurisdiction to equal to one thousand 1,000 kilogrammes minerals from a mineral rights area.
PAHs: polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons or another by changing the country under Stamping and pushing machine: or approximately two thousand, two poly-aromatic hydrocarbons - a chemical whose law it is registered or incorporated, at the coking plant the carefully ground hundred and five 2,205 pounds.
compound that contains more than one whilst maintaining the same legal identity.
and mixed coal charge from the coal fused benzene ring.
They are commonly tower comes to the storage bins of Total coal production: the total production N found in petroleum fuels, coal products, and Reserves: those parts of mineral resources the stamping and pushing machine.
volumes of thermal and coking coal.
NO : gases that are oxides of nitrogen.
PAHs contain BTX BTEX compounds for which sufficient information is With the use of automatic stamping and x which belong to the category of organic available to enable detailed or conceptual pushing facility it is stamped into coal Total coal production per employee: total NWR KARBONIA: NWR KARBONIA oversees chemicals so called volatile organic mine planning and for which such planning blocks.
These blocks are then inserted coal production per mining employee NWRs two development projects in Southern compounds VOCs whose composition has been undertaken.
Reserves are into the coking chamber by the use of including mining contractors.
Poland of Dbiesko and Morcinek.
makes it possible for them to evaporate classified as either proved or probable.
