Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 124 125 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Notes to consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued A deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner s Revenue of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted in the i Own products sold and services rendered expected period of settlement of deferred tax.
Sales revenues consist of sales of coal, coke and related by-products coking gas, chemical products, methane etc.
and services rendered to third parties, measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding any applicable taxes, excise duties, charges, discounts A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the and rebates.
Most of the sales are priced as carriage paid to CPT, delivered at place DAP or delivered duty paid DDP.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
The Group has concluded that it is acting as a principal in all of its sales arrangements, delivering complete supplies to specified place including responsibility for transportation, handling, solving duty tax issues and possibly insurance.
All amounts billed to customers u Segment reporting for transportation and handling are classified mostly as a sales revenue from own products, as a part of selling price, or occasionally An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur as services rendered, with transportation and handling costs recognised as service expenses.
expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available.
A significant proportion of Group production is sold under frame contracts, which are updated quarterly for coking coal and coke or yearly for the majority of thermal coal by amendments specifying pricing or volumes for the next period.
However, the sales revenue is v Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations only recognised on an individual sale when all of the following criteria are met: A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the customer: sale or upon disposal, if earlier.
the Group has retained neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold: w Earnings per share the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net result for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net result attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by All these conditions are generally satisfied when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer and as such, the the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that title passes to the customer.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustments based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Where there are agreed differences in volume or quality of delivered products, this is reflected as reduction or increase usually for better qualities of coal in sales revenue recognised on the sale transaction.
Sales revenue from services rendered is recognised when services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
Segment information ii Government grants a Introduction to segment information Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all conditions The Groups business is organised into three segments Coal, Coke and Real Estate Division RED segment for which financial and will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on other performance measures are separately available and regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker CODM.
a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred The CODM is the Companys Board of Directors.
These operational segments were identified based on the nature, performance and income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual installments.
financial effects of key business activities of the Group.
t Expenses The Group is furthermore organised into two divisions: the Mining Division MD and the Real Estate Division.
The Company had i Operating lease payments A Shares and B Shares outstanding for the presented periods.
The A Shares and B Shares are tracking stocks, which are designed to Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
reflect the financial performance and economic value of the MD and RED, respectively.
Due to the public listing of the Companys Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
A shares, the Group provides divisional reporting showing separately the performance of the MD and RED.
The main rights, obligations and relations between the RED and MD are described in the Divisional Policy Statement DPS.
ii Net finance expenses Net finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable The divisional reporting, as such, is essential for the evaluation of the equity attributable to the listed part of the Group.
As the operating on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on derivative instruments that are recognised in the income segments form part of the divisions and in order to provide understandable and transparent information, the Company decided to statement.
Interest on borrowings is expensed only to the extent that they are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction combine the segment and divisional disclosure in one table, with the Coal and Coke segments within the Mining Division and the RED or production of a qualifying asset.
segment within Real Estate Division.
The Companys headquarter cost are included in the other information under the Mining Division.
The finance income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method which uses the rate that exactly discounts RED segment estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
The RED mainly provides inter-divisional service i. e. provides real estates to MD and concentrates ownership of certain assets, so called Real Estate Assets buildings, surface construction and land, defined by the DPS.
This group of Real Estate Assets was iii Income tax allocated to RED based on their book values as of 31 December 2007 when the divisional segments were established.
Income tax on the profit and loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised RED receives an annual fee the CAP for Real Estate Assets provided by the RED to the MD.
The DPS determined the CAP value in in equity or other comprehensive income.
an amount of EUR 3,600 thousand.
The CAP is annually adjusted by inflation and disposals of the Group entities.
A current tax liability is calculated in accordance with the tax regulations of the states of residence of the Group companies and MD division is based on the income or loss reported under local accounting regulations, adjusted for appropriate permanent and temporary MDs core activities are mining and processing of coal Coal segment and coke production Coke segment.
MD has the right to access differences from taxable income.
Income taxes are calculated on an individual company basis as the tax laws do not permit and usage of any Real Estate Assets as specified by the DPS for its operating activities.
