com 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements t IFRS 9, Financial Instruments not yet endorsed by the EU Section 1 Basis of preparation t IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements General information t IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements Ocado Group plc hereafter the Company is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered t IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities ofce is Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hateld Business Park, t IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement Hateld, Hertfordshire, AL10 9NE.
The financial statements comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiaries hereafter t IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements the Group, see Note 5.1.
The Financial Period represents the t IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012.
The prior financial period Ventures represents the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011. t Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASBs Basis of preparation annual improvements project The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Basis of consolidation the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority where applicable, International The consolidated financial statements include the financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial statements of all subsidiaries.
The financial statements of Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRS IC interpretations as subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements endorsed by the European Union IFRS-EU, and with those from the date on which control over the operating and financial parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting decisions is obtained and cease to be consolidated from the date under IFRS.
The accounting policies applied are consistent with on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control exists those described in the annual report and financial statements for when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 of Ocado Group plc.
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benets from its activities.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
The prior period All intercompany balances and transactions, including recognised financial statements have accordingly also been restated to the gains arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same manner as prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative recognised gains except to the extent that they provide evidence of financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups existing facilities provide Accounting policies sufficient funding for the Group to meet its liabilities as they fall due The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going these financial statements are set out in the relevant notes to concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial information.
Accounting policies not specically attributable to a note are set out below.
These policies have been Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise the Group in 2011 12 or issued but are not yet effective, stated.
and which have not been early adopted by the Group Foreign currency translation The Group has considered the following new standards, Functional and presentation currency interpretations and amendments to published standards that are Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups effective for the Group for the financial year beginning entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 28 November 2011 and concluded that they are either not relevant environment in which the entity operates the functional to the Group or that they would not have a significant impact on the currency.
Sterling is the Companys functional and the Groups Groups financial statements: presentation currency.
t IAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures Transactions and balances t IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Instruments currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign t Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASBs exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such annual improvements project transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies published standards and interpretations which are relevant to the are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in Group have been issued but are not effective for the financial year equity as qualifying cash ow hedges.
beginning 28 November 2011 and have not been adopted early: NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Going concern basis including its effect on the Section 1 Basis of preparation continued impairment of assets The Group has cash reserves and maintains a mixture of short Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and and medium-term debt and lease finance arrangements that are cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement designed to ensure that it has sufficient available funds to finance within finance income or finance costs.
All other foreign exchange its operations.
The Board monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups gains and losses are presented in the income statement within liquidity requirements based on a range of precautionary scenarios operating profit.
to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its committed borrowing Group companies facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing which has the currency of a hyper-inationary economy that have facilities.
a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: In November 2012, the Group amended and extended by 18 months until 6 July 2015 its 100 million credit facility.
At that time, a. assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are it issued new equity of 35.8 million through a share placing to help translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: strengthen the Companys balance sheet and support the continued b. income and expenses for each income statement are translated growth of the Group.
at average exchange rates unless average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on After making appropriate enquiries and having considered the the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are business activities as set out on page 68 and the Groups principal translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and risks and uncertainties as set on pages 43 to 44, the Directors c. all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate are satisfied that the Company and the Group as a whole have component of equity.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been The accounting policies have been applied consistently by the prepared on a going concern basis.
Group to all periods presented in the financial statements.
Impairment of assets based on the separation of the business into Critical accounting estimates and assumptions cash generating units The preparation of the Group financial statements requires the The Group is required to undergo an assessment of the future use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect viability of assets grouped at the lowest levels for which there are the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
separately identiable cash ows cash generating units.
Given Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based the Groups current operating structure, the lowest level at which on historical experience and other factors, including expectations cash ows can reasonably be assessed is for the Group as a whole.
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the The Group is still investing in its future growth and so has not circumstances.
yet reached a stage where it delivers positive post-tax earnings.
Based on the future projections referred to above, the Board does The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the not consider that any further impairment of assets is required.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom There are a large number of assumptions and estimates involved equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions in calculating these future projections, including managements that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to expectations of: the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are set out below.
Sensitivities to the estimates and t Increase in gross sales: assumptions are provided, where relevant, in the related notes: t Growth in EBITDA: t Recognition of deferred tax assets Note 2.2 : t Timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: and t Intangible assets capitalised software Note 3.1 : t The estimation and cost of future funding.
t Property, plant and equipment Note 3.2 : t Trade and other receivables supplier income Note 3.4 : t Leases Note 4.1 : and t Going concern basis including its effect on the impairment of assets see below.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
