Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 128 Glossary 2010 Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code published FY see Financial period.
by the Financial Reporting Council June 2010, as in force from time to time.
Gross sales means sales net of returns, including charges for delivery, before deducting relevant voucher offers and value 2012 Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code published added tax.
by the Financial Reporting Council September 2012, as in force from time to time.
HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Active Customers means customers who have shopped with IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
Ocado in the previous 12 weeks.
John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent company of Admission means the admission of the ordinary shares of the Waitrose.
John Lewis plc is incorporated in England and Wales with Company to the premium listing segment of the Ofcial List and registered number 233462 and its registered ofce is 171 Victoria to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed Street, London, SW1E 5NN.
securities which occurred on 26 July 2010.
JSOS means the Groups joint share ownership scheme.
Annual Incentive Plan means the Executive Director annual incentive plan for the Group applicable to a particular Financial LIBOR means London Interbank Offered Rate.
Life Guarantee means the minimum product life guaranteed by Articles means the articles of association of the Company.
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company or of Ocado Listing Rules means the Listing Rules made by the UK Listing Limited from time to time as the context may require.
Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Block Listing Facility means the facility whereby a number of shares have been block listed but will only be allotted when Management Committee means senior management responsible options under ESOS and non-employee share schemes have been for managing the day-to-day affairs of the business.
Non-Executive Directors means the Non-Executive Directors Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006. designated as such on pages 32 and 33.
CSTM means Customer Service Team Member: the title given to Notice of Meeting means the notice of the Companys AGM.
our customer facing delivery driver.
Saving Pass means the Ocado discount membership scheme Customer Fullment Centre or CFC means a dedicated highly which entitles customers to receive xed discounts on selected automated warehouse used for the operation of the business.
branded products from Ocado within a Saving Pass group for the length of membership and any renewal.
Delivery Pass means the Ocado discounted pre-pay delivery charge service available in various offerings including monthly, Sharesave Scheme means the Ocado employee savings-related quarterly and annually.
share option plan approved by HMRC and SAYE1 means the first invitations made under the scheme and SAYE2 means the second Directors means the Directors of the Company whose names are invitations made under the scheme.
set out on pages 32 and 33, or the Directors of Ocado Limited from time to time as the context may require.
SKU means a stock keeping unit, that is each individual item or product stocked.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules means the disclosure rules and transparency rules made by the FSA under Part VI of FSMA.
Sourcing Agreement means the various sourcing and branding agreements between Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
EBT means earnings before tax.
Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used for the intermediate ESOS means the Groups Ocado 2001 Executive Share delivery of customers orders.
Substitution means the term used to refer to the alternative Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Jason Gissing, Neill product provided in place of the original product ordered by a Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson.
Financial period means the 52 week period, or 53 week period Waitrose means Waitrose Limited, a company incorporated in where relevant, ending the closest Sunday to 30 November.
England and Wales with registered number 00099405.
Financial year see Financial period.
Webshop means the customer facing internet-based virtual shop accessible on the Website.
FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
