Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 116 Notes to the Company financial statements t IFRS 9, Financial Instruments not yet endorsed by the EU Section 1 Basis of preparation t IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements General information t IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements Ocado Group plc is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered ofce is Titan Court, t IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities 3 Bishops Square, Hateld Business Park, Hateld, Hertfordshire, t IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement AL10 9NE.
The Financial Period represents the 53weeks ended 2 December 2012 prior period 52 weeks ended 27 November t IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements 2011. t IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Basis of preparation t Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASBs The financial statements have been prepared in accordance annual improvements project with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRS IC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union IFRS-EU, Accounting policies and those parts of the Companies Act applicable to companies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of reporting under IFRS.
these financial statements are set out in the relevant notes to these financial statements.
Accounting policies not specically The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the attributable to a note are set out below.
These policies have been nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
The prior period consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise financial statements have accordingly also been restated to the stated.
nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for financial Foreign currency translation instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the basis, which assumes that the Company will continue to be able to transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of Exemptions monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available recognised in the income statement.
under Section 408 of the Companies Act and not presented an income statement or a statement of comprehensive income for the Taxation Company alone.
The profit for the period is 0.1 million 2011: 0.7 Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent million.
that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
by the Company in 2011 12 or issued, but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Company Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the The Company has considered the following new standards, balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions interpretations and amendments to published standards that are taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 28 November regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where 2011 and concluded that they are either not relevant to the appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax Company or that they would not have a significant impact on the authorities.
Companys financial statements: Critical accounting estimates and assumptions t IAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures The preparation of the Company financial statements requires the t IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the Instruments reported amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical t Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASBs experience and other factors, including expectations of future events annual improvements project that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards and interpretations which are relevant to the The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the Group have been issued but are not effective for the financial year future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom beginning 28 November 2011 and have not been adopted early: equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions relevant to the consolidated financial statements are embedded with the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
