Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 120 Notes to the Company financial statements continued The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the 4.3 Financial instruments assets carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective Accounting policies interest rate.
The assets carrying value is reduced and the loss Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the recognised in the income statement.
balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company classies its If, in a subsequent period, the impairment loss decreases and the financial instruments into available-for-sale, loans and receivables, decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after and other financial liabilities at amortised cost.
the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial assets and liabilities were acquired.
Management determines the Available-for-sale assets classication of its financial instruments at initial recognition or in certain circumstances on modication.
Equity investments classied as available-for-sale and held at cost are reviewed annually to identify if an impairment loss has occurred.
Offsetting financial instruments The amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount between the carrying value of the financial asset and the present reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the current right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Impairment losses to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability recognised in the income statement on equity investments are not simultaneously.
1 Fair value of financial instruments Assets carried at amortised cost Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values The Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that and fair values of all financial instruments that are included in a financial asset is impaired at the end of the reporting period.
The fair values of financial assets and financial asset is impaired and an impairment loss recognised if liabilities are based on prices available from the market on which there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of a loss event the instruments are traded where available.
The fair values of cash that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and the loss and cash equivalents, receivables and payables are assumed event has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the to approximate to their carrying values but for completeness are financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The criteria that the included in the analysis below.
Company uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss include but are not limited to: t Financial difficulty indicators: t Breach of contract such as missed payments: t Fraud: t Bankruptcy: and t Disappearance of an active market.
2 December 2012 27 November 2011 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Notes m m m m Financial assets Investments 3.1.
3 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 Total financial liabilities 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stock code: OCDO www.
2 Credit risk The Companys exposures to credit risk arise from holdings of cash and cash equivalents and other receivables.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying value of financial assets, as set out in Note 4.3.
1, represents the maximum credit exposure.
No collateral is held as security against these assets.
Cash and cash equivalents The Companys exposure to credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is managed by investing in banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings and by regular review of counterparty risk in light of the current economic climate.
The Companys guideline is to maintain transactional bank accounts and term deposits with financial institutions which carry a Moodys rating of Aa3 P1 for long-term and shortterm deposits.
Other receivables Other receivables at the end of both periods consist primarily of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings.
Management provides for irrecoverable debts when there are indicators that a balance may not be recoverable.
The ageing of other receivables at the balance sheet date is set out below: 2 December 2012 27 November 2011 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Notes m m m m Not past due 187.6 138.0 Past due 03 months Past due 36 months Past due over 6 months 3.2.
1 187.6 138.0 There were no unimpaired balances at the period end where the Company had renegotiated the terms of the other receivables.
Management has not provided for irrecoverable debts against any of its other receivable balances.
3 Liquidity risk To manage the working capital needs of the business, the Company is reliant on being able to negotiate sufficient nancing arrangements.
The Company monitors cash ow as part of its day-to-day control procedures and the Board considers cash ow projections on a monthly basis.
For further details on the Groups capital management strategy see Note 4.5.
3 in the consolidated financial statements.
The table below analyses the Companys financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the carrying values and undiscounted contractual cash ows.
Carrying Contractual 1 year 12 25 More than value cash flows or less years years 5 years Notes m m m m m m Financial liabilities Trade payables and other payables 3.2.
3 9.5 9.5 9.5 27 November 2011 & 2 December 2012 9.5 9.5 9.5 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 122 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 4.3.
4 Market risk Currency risk The Company engages in foreign currency transactions to a very limited extent.
No financial assets are held in foreign currencies.
Due to the Companys lack of exposure to currency risk no sensitivity analysis has been performed.
Interest rate risk The Company has no interest bearing financial liabilities, and its interest bearing financial assets consists of only cash and cash equivalents and certain amounts due from subsidiary undertakings.
These financial assets are exposed to interest rate risk as the Company holds money market deposits at oating interest rates and charges a oating rate on certain amounts due from subsidiaries.
The risk is managed by investing cash in a range of cash deposit accounts with UK banks split between xed term deposits, notice accounts and money market funds.
At the balance sheet date the interest rate prole of the Companys interest bearing financial instruments was: 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Fixed rate instruments Financial assets 49.7 37.1 Variable rate instruments Financial assets 21.4 48.2 Sensitivity analysis An increase of 100 basis points 1.0% in interest rates would increase equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
A rate of 100 basis points was deemed appropriate, considering the current short-term interest rate outlook.
The calculation applies the increase to average oating rate interest bearing receivables and cash and cash equivalents existing during the period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant and considers the effect on financial instruments with variable interest rates.
2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Equity Gain 0.8 Income Gain 0.2 0.8 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
