com 93 Operating leases Section 4 Capital structure and nancing costs Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income 4.1 Leases and borrowings statement on a straight-line basis.
Accounting policies Lease incentives Borrowings Lease incentives primarily include upfront cash payments or rentInterest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at free periods.
Lease incentives are capitalised and released against fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial the relevant rental expense over the lease term.
recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being Critical accounting estimates and assumptions capitalised to qualifying assets or recognised in the income statement The Group has a number of complex high value lease over the period of the borrowings on the effective interest rate basis.
The Group follows the guidance of IAS 17 Leases to determine the classication of leases as operating leases versus Leased assets finance leases.
The classication of a lease as a finance lease Leases are classied as finance leases when the terms of the lease as opposed to an operating lease will change EBITDA as the transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to charge made by the lessor will pass through finance charges and the Group.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
For depreciation will be charged on the capitalised asset.
Retained property leases, the land and building elements are accounted for earnings may also be affected depending on the relative size of separately after determining the appropriate lease classication.
the amounts apportioned to capital repayments and depreciation.
IAS 17 Leases requires the Group to consider splitting property Finance leases leases into their component parts i. e. land and building elements.
Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised either as As only the building elements could be considered as a finance property, plant and equipment, or intangible assets, as appropriate, lease, management must make a judgement, based on advice from and are depreciated amortised over their estimated useful lives suitable experts, as to the relative value of the land and buildings.
or the lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term, measured at the inception of the lease.
The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities, net of attributable transaction costs.
Finance costs on finance leases are charged directly to the income statement on the effective interest rate basis.
1 Borrowings and finance leases 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 Notes m m Current liabilities Borrowings 4.1.
2 Borrowings Between Between Less than one year and two years one year two years and five years Total m m m m As at 27 November 2011 Secured loans 3.3 3.2 42.6 49.1 Total borrowings 3.3 3.2 42.6 49.1 As at 2 December 2012 Secured loans 2.6 10.1 81.2 93.9 Total borrowings 2.6 10.1 81.2 93.9 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
