com 87 Property, plant and equipment represents 63% of the total asset 3.1.
1 Intangible assets computer software continued base of the Group in 2012 2011: 54%.
Therefore, the estimates The movement in cost includes assets of nil 2011: 0.2 million and assumptions made to determine the carrying value of property, reclassied from owned assets to assets held under finance lease plant and equipment and related depreciation are important to the following asset based nancing arrangements.
Groups financial position and performance.
For the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012, internal development For more information on the Groups policy on capitalisation of costs capitalised represented approximately 94% 2011: 78% borrowing costs, see Note 4.3. of expenditure on intangible assets and 11% 2011: 7% of total capital spend including property, plant and equipment.
Estimation of useful life The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived by 3.2 Property, plant and equipment estimating an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or Accounting policies its residual value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in Property, plant and equipment the income statement.
The useful lives of the Groups assets are Property, plant and equipment excluding land are stated at cost determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment reviewed at least annually for appropriateness.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and any on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its future events which may impact their useful life, such as changes in intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the cost of Impairment of non-financial assets the relevant assets less their estimated residual values by equal An annual impairment review is performed and assets which do not annual amounts over their expected useful lives.
Residual values have indefinite useful lives are subject to an annual depreciation and expected useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, or amortisation charge.
Assets that are subject to an annual at the end of each reporting period.
amortisation or depreciation charge are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Land is held at cost and not depreciated.
Depreciation on carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable other non-current assets is charged to distribution costs and amount is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and administrative expenses and is calculated based on the useful lives value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets indicated below: are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets Freehold buildings and 25 years, or the lease term if that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the leasehold properties shorter impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Fixtures and fittings 510 years Plant and machinery 320 years Given the Groups current operating structure, the lowest level at Motor vehicles 27 years which cash ows can reasonably be assessed is for the Group as a whole.
The Group prepares detailed forward projections which are Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated until it is available constantly updated and rened.
Based on these projections the for use.
Board does not consider that any further impairment of assets is required, other than that recognised in the income statement.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with the assets carrying amount and are recognised within operating profit.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.2.
The capitalisation rate for both periods is the same as that incurred on the underlying borrowings, being LIBOR plus 3.5%.
Borrowing costs are capitalised on specic borrowings which are wholly attributable to qualifying assets.
Of the current period impairment charge, 0.9 million has been included within exceptional costs.
The net book value of non-current assets held under finance leases is set out below: Fixtures, fittings, Land and plant and Motor buildings machinery vehicles Total m m m m At 27 November 2011 Cost 26.6 67.8 29.7 124.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 12.0 38.5 12.3 62.8 Net book value 14.6 29.3 17.4 61.3 At 2 December 2012 Cost 26.9 69.6 33.4 129.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 13.3 43.9 14.9 72.1 Net book value 13.6 25.7 18.5 57.8 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
