com 109 4.8 Capital management The Boards objective is to maintain an appropriate balance of debt and equity nancing to enable the Group to continue as a going concern, to sustain future development of the business and to maximise returns to shareholders and benets to other stakeholders.
The Board closely manages trading capital, dened as net assets plus net debt.
Net debt is calculated as total debt obligations under finance leases and borrowings as shown in the balance sheet, less cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups net assets at the end of the period were 205.7 million 2011: 172.9 million and it had net debt of 55.2 million 2011: 19.2 million.
The main areas of capital management revolve around working capital management and compliance with externally imposed financial covenants.
Throughout the period, the Group has complied with all covenants imposed by lenders.
The components of working capital management include monitoring inventory turn, age of inventory, age of receivables, receivables days, payables days, balance sheet reforecasting, period projected loss, weekly cash ow forecasts and daily cash balances.
Major investment decisions are based on reviewing the expected future cash ows and all major capital expenditure requires approval by the Board.
There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the period.
Given the Groups commitment to expand the business and the investment required to complete CFC2, the declaration and payment of a dividend is not part of the short-term capital management strategy of the Group.
At the balance sheet date, the Groups undrawn facilities and cash and cash equivalents are as follows: 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 Notes m m Total facilities available 193.0 191.5 Facilities drawn down 4.1.
1 148.5 112.6 Undrawn facilities at end of period 44.5 78.9 Cash and cash equivalents 3.4.
3 89.6 92.1 Total undrawn facilities and cash and cash equivalents available at end of the period 134.1 171.0 Excluded from the amount of facilities drawn down is 3.7 million 2011: 1.4 million relating to capitalised transaction costs.
Section 5 Other notes 5.1 Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out below.
A schedule of interests in all undertakings is led with the annual return.
Share of issued ordinary share capital and voting Country of Principal activity rights incorporation Ocado Holdings Limited Holding company 100% England and Wales Ocado Limited Retail and distribution 100% England and Wales Ocado Information Technology Limited Intellectual property 100% Republic of Ireland Last Mile Developments Limited Property development 100% England and Wales Ocado Cell in Atlas Insurance PCC Limited Insurance company 100% Malta In addition to the companies shown above, the Company also holds investments in other subsidiary undertakings, which in the Directors opinion does not signicantly affect the gures in the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with Section 410 2 a of the Companies Act, a full list of subsidiaries was annexed to the 2011 annual return and submitted to Companies House.
A full list of subsidiaries will be submitted to Companies House with the 2012 annual return.
The Group has effective control over the financial and operating activities of the Ocado Cell and therefore consolidates the Ocado Cell in its financial statements in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
The Group uses the Ocado Cell to provide selfinsurance for its vehicle eet and public and product liability claims.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
