Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued This assessment is performed retrospectively at each financial 4.4 Derivative financial instruments reporting period.
Movements on the hedging reserve within shareholders equity are shown in the consolidated statement of Accounting policies comprehensive income.
The full fair value of hedging derivatives Derivative financial instruments is classied as current when the remaining maturity of the hedged Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value item is less than 12 months.
on the contract date and are subsequently measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the Cash flow hedging resulting fair value gain or loss depends on whether the derivative The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the item that are designated as cash ow hedges and qualify for hedge being hedged.
At 2 December 2012 the Groups derivative financial accounting is recognised in equity.
Amounts accumulated in instruments consist of interest rate swaps which are designated as equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when cash ow hedges of future interest payments, and forward foreign the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When the hedged forecast exchange contracts which are designated as cash ow hedges of transaction results in the recognition of property, plant and highly probable forecast transactions.
equipment the gains or losses previously deferred in equity are included in the initial cost of the asset and are ultimately recognised The Group documents at the inception of the hedge the relationship in profit or loss within the depreciation expense.
During the period between hedging instruments and hedged items, the risk all the Groups cash ow hedges were 100% effective and there is management objectives and strategy and its assessment of whether therefore no ineffective portion recognised in profit or loss.
the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
1 Derivative financial instruments 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Derivative assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 0.2 Derivative liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 0.3 0.2 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts Interest rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert interest exchange contracts at 2 December 2012 were 22.8 million 2011: payable on certain oating rate debt from a variable to a xed 31.6 million.
The corresponding amounts in sterling at interest rate.
As at 2 December 2012 the total notional amount 2 December 2012 were 18.6 million 2011: 27.4 million.
of interest rate swaps was 53.2 million 2011: 25.4 million, representing 54.04% 2011: 50.25% of gross Group borrowings.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during The swaps have been accounted for as cash ow hedges with the next six months.
Cumulative gains and losses recognised in interest payable on borrowings designated as the hedged item.
The the hedging reserve within other comprehensive income are 0.4 hedged item and the hedging instrument have the same critical million of losses 2011: 1.4 million of gains.
These losses are terms and thus all hedges were highly effective for the period.
recognised in the income statement in periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement, which for property, plant and equipment is over the useful life of the asset 3 to 20 years.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
