com 97 t Financial difficulty indicators: 4.5 Financial instruments t Breach of contract such as missed payments: Accounting policies t Fraud: Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual t Bankruptcy: and provisions of the instrument.
t Disappearance of an active market.
The Group classies its financial instruments in the following categories: The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of estimated future t Available-for-sale: cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying value is reduced and the loss t Loans and receivables: recognised in the income statement.
t Other financial liabilities at amortised cost: and If, in a subsequent period, the impairment loss decreases and the t Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after or loss.
the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial recognised impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
assets and liabilities were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its financial instruments at initial recognition or in Available-for-sale financial assets certain circumstances on modication.
Equity investments classied as available-for-sale and held at cost are reviewed annually to identify if an impairment loss has occurred.
Offsetting financial instruments The amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount between the carrying value of the financial asset and the present reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the current right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Impairment losses to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability recognised in the income statement on equity investments are not simultaneously.
1 Fair value of financial instruments Assets carried at amortised cost Financial instruments carried at fair value in the balance sheet The Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a comprise the derivative assets and liabilities, see Note 4.4.
The financial asset is impaired at the end of each reporting period.
A Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing financial asset is impaired and an impairment loss recognised if the fair value of these financial instruments: there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of a loss event that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and the loss t Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets event has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the or liabilities level 1 financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The criteria that t Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an observable for the asset and liability, either directly or indirectly impairment loss include but are not limited to: level 2 t Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data that is unobservable inputs level 3 The Groups derivative assets and liabilities are all classied as level 2.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.5.
1 Fair value of financial instruments continued Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all financial instruments that are included in the financial statements: 2 December 2012 27 November 2011 Carrying Carrying Notes value Fair value value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 3.4.
1 0.7 0.7 0.3 0.3 Total financial liabilities 231.5 238.0 180.2 175.8 The derivative asset relates to forward foreign exchange contracts, The fair values of all other financial assets and liabilities have the fair value of which was determined with reference to the forward been calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows at rate to the date of maturity for all such contracts at period end.
The derivative liabilities relate to forward foreign exchange contracts 4.5.
2 Credit risk and interest rate swaps.
The fair value of the forward foreign The Groups exposures to credit risk arise from holdings of cash exchange contracts was determined with reference to the forward and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables excluding rate to the date of maturity for all outstanding forward foreign prepayments and derivative assets.
exchange contracts at period end.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps was determined with reference to the xed rate to the date of Exposure to credit risk maturity for all outstanding interest rate swaps at period end.
The carrying value of these financial assets, as set out in Note 4.5.
1, represents the maximum credit exposure.
No collateral is held as The Groups only available-for-sale financial asset consists of an security against these assets.
unlisted equity investment of which the fair value cannot be reliably determined, and which is therefore measured at cost.
There has Cash and cash equivalents been no movement in this investment during the period.
The Groups exposure to credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is managed by investing in banks and financial institutions with strong The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, credit ratings and by regular review of counterparty risk in light of payables and accruals of a maturity of less than one financial the current economic climate.
The Groups guideline is to maintain period are assumed to approximate to their carrying values but for transactional bank accounts and term deposits with financial completeness are included in this analysis.
institutions which carry a Moodys rating of Aa3 P1 for long-term and short-term deposits.
The interest rate used to discount borrowings is based on a LIBOR plus margin measure blended for the type of security offered and was calculated as 3.52% 2011: 5.0%.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stock code: OCDO www.
2 Credit risk continued Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables at the period end comprise mainly monies due from suppliers, which are considered of a good credit quality, as well as VAT receivable and prepayments.
The Group provides for doubtful receivables in respect of monies due from suppliers.
The Group has very low retail credit risk due to transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity and the Groups effective controls over this area.
The Group has provided for doubtful receivables in respect of consumer sales by reviewing the ageing prole and, based on prior experience, assessing the recoverability of overdue balances.
Movements in the provision for the impairment of trade and other receivables are as follows: 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 Notes m m At the beginning of the period 0.3 0.2 Provision for impairment of receivables 0.3 0.3 Uncollectible amounts written off 0.2 0.2 Recovery of amounts previously provided 0.1 At the end of the period 3.4.
3 Liquidity risk To manage the working capital needs of the business, the Group is reliant on being able to negotiate sufficient nancing arrangements.
To achieve this, the Group maintains a mixture of short and medium-term debt and lease finance arrangements that are designed to ensure it has sufficient available funds to finance its operations.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
For further details see Note 4.8.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the carrying values and undiscounted contractual cash ows.
Carrying Contractual 1 year 12 25 More than value cash flows or less years years 5 years Notes m m m m m m Financial liabilities Trade payables 3.4.
1 0.3 0.3 0.3 27 November 2011 180.2 194.9 98.0 26.0 63.0 7.9 Carrying Contractual 1 year 12 25 More than value cash flows or less years years 5 years Notes m m m m m m Financial liabilities Trade payables 3.4.
1 0.7 0.7 0.7 2 December 2012 231.5 253.2 117.9 28.1 100.8 6.4 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.5.
4 Market risk Currency risk The Group has foreign currency exposure in relation to its foreign currency trade payables and a portion of its cash and cash equivalents.
Foreign currency trade payables arise principally on purchases of plant and equipment.
Euro bank accounts are maintained in order to minimise the Groups exposure to uctuations in the euro relating to current and future purchases of plant and equipment.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are entered into to hedge future purchases of plant and equipment in euro.
The Groups exposure to currency risk is based on the following amounts: 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents EUR 7.8 0.5 Trade payables at period end EUR 10.6 0.8 Net derivative liability forward foreign exchange contracts EUR 0.1 0.2 2.9 0.5 The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates on its euro-related financial instruments: 2 December 2012 27 November 2011 Increase Increase Increase Increase decrease in decrease in decrease in decrease in income equity income equity m m m m 10% appreciation of the euro 0.3 1.8 0.1 2.7 10% depreciation of the euro 0.3 1.8 0.1 2.5 A strengthening of the euro, as indicated, against sterling at 2 December 2012 would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts detailed above.
This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Group considered to be reasonably possible at the end of the period.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its oating rate interest bearing borrowings and oating rate cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups interest rate risk policy seeks to minimise finance charges and volatility by structuring the interest rate prole into a diversied portfolio of xed rate and oating rate financial assets and liabilities.
Interest rate risk on significant oating rate interest bearing borrowings is managed using interest rate swaps.
At the balance sheet date the interest rate prole of the Groups interest bearing financial instruments was: 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Fixed rate instruments Financial assets 65.8 41.7 Financial liabilities 53.3 62.2 Variable rate instruments Financial assets 23.8 50.4 Financial liabilities 91.5 49.1 Sensitivity analysis An increase of 100 basis points 1.0% in interest rates would increase equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
A rate of 100 basis points was deemed appropriate, considering the current short-term interest rate outlook.
The calculation applies the increase to average oating rate interest bearing borrowings and cash and cash equivalents existing during the period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant and considers the effect on financial instruments with variable interest rates.
2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Equity Gain 0.7 0.3 Income Gain 0.1 0.3 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stock code: OCDO www.
5 Financial instruments by category The Group has categorised its financial instruments as follows: Financial liabilities at Financial fair value liabilities at through AvailableLoans and amortised profit and for-sale receivables cost loss Total Notes m m m m m As at 27 November 2011 Financial assets as per the balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents 3.4.
3 92.1 92.1 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 3.4.
1 Total 0.4 123.7 124.1 Financial liabilities as per the balance sheet Trade payables 3.4.
1 0.3 0.3 Total 179.9 0.3 180.2 Financial liabilities at Financial fair value liabilities at through AvailableLoans and amortised profit and for-sale receivables cost loss Total Notes m m m m m As at 2 December 2012 Financial assets as per the balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents 3.4.
3 89.6 89.6 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 3.4.
1 0.2 0.2 Total 0.4 114.2 0.2 114.8 Financial liabilities as per the balance sheet Trade payables 3.4.
1 0.7 0.7 Total 230.8 0.7 231.5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
