com 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements t IFRS 9, Financial Instruments not yet endorsed by the EU Section 1 Basis of preparation t IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements General information t IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements Ocado Group plc hereafter the Company is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered t IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities ofce is Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hateld Business Park, t IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement Hateld, Hertfordshire, AL10 9NE.
The financial statements comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiaries hereafter t IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements the Group, see Note 5.1.
The Financial Period represents the t IAS 28 revised 2011, Investments in Associates and Joint 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012.
The prior financial period Ventures represents the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011. t Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASBs Basis of preparation annual improvements project The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Basis of consolidation the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority where applicable, International The consolidated financial statements include the financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial statements of all subsidiaries.
The financial statements of Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRS IC interpretations as subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements endorsed by the European Union IFRS-EU, and with those from the date on which control over the operating and financial parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting decisions is obtained and cease to be consolidated from the date under IFRS.
The accounting policies applied are consistent with on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control exists those described in the annual report and financial statements for when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 of Ocado Group plc.
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benets from its activities.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
The prior period All intercompany balances and transactions, including recognised financial statements have accordingly also been restated to the gains arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same manner as prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative recognised gains except to the extent that they provide evidence of financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups existing facilities provide Accounting policies sufficient funding for the Group to meet its liabilities as they fall due The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going these financial statements are set out in the relevant notes to concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial information.
Accounting policies not specically attributable to a note are set out below.
These policies have been Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise the Group in 2011 12 or issued but are not yet effective, stated.
and which have not been early adopted by the Group Foreign currency translation The Group has considered the following new standards, Functional and presentation currency interpretations and amendments to published standards that are Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups effective for the Group for the financial year beginning entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 28 November 2011 and concluded that they are either not relevant environment in which the entity operates the functional to the Group or that they would not have a significant impact on the currency.
Sterling is the Companys functional and the Groups Groups financial statements: presentation currency.
t IAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures Transactions and balances t IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Instruments currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign t Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASBs exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such annual improvements project transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies published standards and interpretations which are relevant to the are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in Group have been issued but are not effective for the financial year equity as qualifying cash ow hedges.
beginning 28 November 2011 and have not been adopted early: NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
