com 89 within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
1 Property, plant and equipment continued considers that the Groups investments fall within this category as The movement in cost includes assets of 2.1 million 2011: 9.7 explained below.
million reclassied from owned assets to assets held under finance lease following asset based nancing arrangements.
Investments Investments are classied as either held for trading or availableIncluded within property, plant and equipment is capital workfor-sale.
There are currently no investments classied as held for in-progress for land and buildings of 77.7 million 2011: 60.0 trading.
million and capital work-in-progress for xtures, ttings, plant and machinery of 80.0 million 2011: 35.2 million.
Available-for-sale investments are held at fair value if this can be reliably measured.
If the equity instruments are not quoted in an Property, plant and equipment with a net book value of 135.1 active market and their fair value cannot be reliably measured, the million 2011: 66.7 million has been pledged as security for the available-for-sale investment is carried at cost, less accumulated secured loans Note 4.1.
Included in this amount is 120.9 impairment.
Unless the valuation falls below its original cost, gains million 2011: 57.2 million relating to assets pledged as security and losses arising from changes in fair value of available-for-sale for amounts already drawn down under the 100 million credit assets are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal the cumulative facility.
net gain or loss is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
Valuations below cost are recognised as impairment losses 3.3 Available-for-sale financial assets in the income statement.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment is established.
Accounting policies Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it 3.3.
1 Available-for-sale financial assets 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Unlisted equity investment cost and net book value 0.4 0.4 The unlisted equity investment comprises a 25% interest in 3.4 Working capital Paneltex Limited Paneltex, which has not been treated as an associated undertaking as the Group does not have significant Accounting policies inuence over the company.
In arriving at this decision, the Board Inventories has reviewed the conditions set out in IAS 28 Investments in Inventories comprise goods held for resale, fuel and other Associates and concluded that despite the size of its holding it is consumable goods made up principally of spares.
Inventories are unable to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Goods held for of Paneltex due to the position of the majority shareholder as resale and consumables are valued using the weighted average Executive Managing Director.
The relationship between the Group cost basis.
Fuel stocks are valued at calculated average cost.
Costs and the company is at arms length.
include all direct expenditure and other appropriate attributable costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and The shares of Paneltex are not quoted in an active market and their condition.
fair value cannot be reliably measured.
As such, the investment in Paneltex is measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed The Group does not intend to dispose of this investment in the or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
If the Group did intend to dispose of this They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater investment then the anticipated exit route would be the sale of than 12 months after the end of the reporting period, which are shares to the existing shareholder or another connected party of classied as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables Paneltex.
comprise Trade and other receivables and Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
