com 117 Section 2 Results for the year 2.1 profit before tax Accounting policies Administrative expenses Administrative expenses consist of fees for professional services, bank charges and any other costs of an administrative nature.
1 Operating loss During the period, the Company obtained audit services from its auditors,  LLP, to the amount of 0.05 million 2011: 0.05 million.
2 Employee information The Company does not incur any direct staff costs as the Groups employees are employed by a subsidiary company.
Analysis and disclosures in relation to share-based payments are given in Note 4.2.
Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Investments Available-for-sale investments are held at fair value if this can be reliably measured.
If the equity instruments are not quoted in an active market and their fair value cannot be reliably measured, the Accounting policies available-for-sale investment is carried at cost, less accumulated Available-for-sale financial assets impairment.
Unless the valuation falls below its original cost, gains Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are and losses arising from changes in fair value of available-for-sale either designated in this category or not classied in any of the assets are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal the cumulative other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless net gain or loss is transferred to the statement of comprehensive the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it income.
Valuations below cost are recognised as impairment losses within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Management in the income statement.
Dividends are recognised in the income considers that the Groups investments fall within this category, as statement when the right to receive payment is established.
Investments in Group undertakings are therefore valued at cost, less Investments accumulated impairment.
Investments are classied as either held for trading or availablefor-sale.
There are currently no investments classied as held for trading.
1 Investments 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Cost 476.5 476.5 Contributions to subsidiaries: Novation of derivative liability in respect of warrants issued by Ocado Limited 1.1 1.1 Group equity-settled share-based payments 1.7 0.8 Carrying value at end of period 479.3 478.4 Investments represent investments in Group companies, Ocado Holdings Limited and Ocado Limited which is indirectly held.
For more information regarding the Companys investments see Note 5.1.
Subsidiaries are recharged for the amount recognised as share-based payments relating to awards to their employees.
These are recognised as an increase in the investment in relevant subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 2.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
