com 81 Distribution costs Section 2 Results for the year Distribution costs consist of all the costs incurred, excluding 2.1 Loss before tax product costs, to the point of sale, usually the customers home.
This includes the payroll-related expenses for the picking, dispatch Accounting policies and delivery of product sold to the point of sale, the cost of making those deliveries, including fuel, tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the Revenue operating costs of the properties required for the picking, dispatch Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or and onward delivery operations and all associated depreciation, receivable for the sale of goods and services.
amortisation and impairment charges, call centre costs and payment processing charges.
Sales through the Webshop are shown net of returns, relevant marketing vouchers offers and value added taxes.
Relevant Administrative expenses vouchers offers include money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and offers such as buy three for the price of two.
Delivery Administrative expenses consist of all IT costs, advertising and charges are included in revenue.
marketing expenditure, employment costs of all central functions, which include legal, finance, human resources, marketing and Revenue is recognised at the point when the significant risks procurement, rent and other property-related costs for the head and rewards of products have been passed to the buyer and ofce, all fees for professional services, expenses relating to the can be reliably measured: in general this is deemed to occur Groups share schemes and the depreciation, amortisation and when customers take delivery of the goods.
Income from Ocado impairment associated with IT equipment, software, xtures and Delivery Pass, the Groups discounted pre-pay delivery scheme, is ttings.
recognised in the period to which it relates on an accruals basis.
Exceptional items Cost of sales Exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the income Cost of sales represents the cost of groceries and other products statement, are items that due to their material and non-recurring the Group sells, any associated licence fees which are linked to the nature have been classied separately in order to draw them to the volume of sales of specic products or product groups, including attention of the reader of the financial statements.
the branding and sourcing fees payable to Waitrose, adjustments to inventory, and charges for transportation of goods from a supplier to 2.1.
The Groups principal activity is that of grocery retailing, derived solely from the UK.
The Group is not reliant on any major customer At the period end the Group is required to estimate supplier income for 10% or more of its revenue.
Estimates are required due to the fact that the majority of these agreements end after the financial Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the year end of the Group, which results in the Group only receiving internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, rm conrmation of amounts due after the period end.
This income as required by IFRS 8.
The chief operating decision-maker, is estimated on historical data and review of major contracts with who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing suppliers.
performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the Executive Directors.
Other income Other income comprises the fair value of consideration received or The principal activity of the Group is managed as one segment.
The receivable for advertising services provided by Ocado to suppliers Group does not split its activities into any further regional or product and other third parties on the Webshop, commission income, subdivisions in its internal management reporting, as any such split sublease payments receivable and amounts receivable not in the would not provide the Groups management with any meaningful ordinary course of business.
Consequently, all activities relate to this one segment.
Employee benefits The chief operating decision-makers main indicator of performance of the segment is EBITDA, which is reconciled to operating profit The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of its staff below the income statement.
through a dened contribution personal pension scheme which is administered by Standard Life.
Employer contributions to the scheme are calculated as a percentage of salary based on length of scheme membership.
Contributions are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
2 Gross sales 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2 December 27 November 2012 2011 m m Revenue 678.6 598.3 VAT 41.9 36.5 Marketing vouchers 11.4 8.0 Gross sales 731.9 642.8 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
