com 13 Our operating model As customer behaviour shifts towards shopping for groceries online, incumbent retailers are trying to adapt their existing businesses to this fundamental change.
We are solely focused on the online channel, and committed to providing the best customer shopping experience available, without the distraction of legacy bricks and mortar operations.
The ultimate mission for the retailer is to move a product Our operating model removes many of the costs incurred in a from the supplier to a customers home.
However, traditional traditional store-based model, such as redistribution costs of retail models have only delivered half of this mission, by stock from a separate distribution centre, signicantly reduced moving the product only as far as the shop shelf and then put away costs of stock into our pick aisles the equivalent of conditioning the consumer to perform the other half of the retail a supermarket shelf, and the costs of a store network itself.
As mission in coming to the store and taking the product home.
we grow and scale our operation further, we will gain the benefit Notwithstanding this, grocery retail remains a relatively slim of the operating leverage inherent in this business model.
Our model also gives natural benets to the customer.
Our food Our proposition is that in order to improve the shopping should be fresher as it takes less time to reach the shelves and experience for customers we will perform the entire mission spends less time on those shelves.
We have higher predictability delivering the product from the supplier to the customers of stock available for fullment than a store.
However, in order to do this in a sustainable and new range extensions available to all of our customers very profitable way, a whole new approach needs to be adopted quickly from one central location.
This enables us to add niche which removes cost from the traditional model.
products to our range quickly and effectively without risk of stock obsolescence.
The significant know-how we have developed has We do this through the centralisation of our picking operations resulted in consistent industry leading service delivery metrics which aggregates activities to give each function scale, and which underpin our customer service proposition.
through the use of automation and technology.
We distribute orders directly from our picking facility and through a series of We have developed this pioneering approach to grocery retail local spoke sites located around the country.
over several years using our own bespoke systems, know-how and software, making our operation very difficult to replicate.
The Conventional Way The Ocado Way Conventional store in-store or online www.
com Suppliers Suppliers c15% Wholesaler Regional Distribution Centres c85% Stores Online store Central Fullment Centre Delivery Delivery Customers home Customers home OUR OPERATING MODEL INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
