FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies 56 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Oxford Instruments plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 104 to 109.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group Financial Statements.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 10 to 11.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 21.
The relatively diverse nature of the Group together with its current financial strength provides a solid foundation.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and exed them to incorporate a number of potential scenarios relating to changes in trading performance and believe that the Group will be able to operate within its existing debt facility which expires in December 2014.
This review also considered hedging arrangements in place.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, based on the Directors opinion, after making reasonable enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group has made three restatements in the period.
Firstly, the tax credit of 2.7 million arising in respect of share options in the prior year was, in error, reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
This has been corrected and the credit has now been reported in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Secondly, the Group has reclassied certain engineering costs incurred in relation to one-off special customer orders.
Such costs are now treated as research and development costs rather than as costs of sales and is considered to be a treatment consistent with the Groups industry peers.
The effect on the Consolidated Income Statement for the prior year was to reduce cost of sales by 2.4 million and increase research and development costs by the same amount.
The effect on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the current year has been to reduce cost of sales by 3.1 million and increase research and development costs by 3.1 million.
Thirdly, due to strong growth in its physical product sales, the Directors decided during the period that it was no longer appropriate to regard the Austin scientific business as a service business.
Consequently, it is now included within the Industrial Products segment and the comparatives have been restated accordingly.
In line with the other businesses, its service revenues will continue to be reported in the Service segment.
The effect of the restatement in the prior year was to increase the revenue and profit of the Industrial Products segment by 2.9 million and 0.2 million respectively with corresponding reductions in the Service segment.
The amounts of the revenue and profit in the current year are 11.0 million and 2.4 million respectively.
No adjustment has any effect on earnings per share or on any balance sheet previously presented.
Accordingly, a revised opening balance sheet at 1 April 2010 is not disclosed.
The Financial Statements were authorised for issuance on 12 June 2012.
A NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In the current year, the Group has adopted the following new standards, amendments and interpretations.
These were mandatory for the year ended 31 March 2012.
U IAS 24 Related parties disclosures revised 2009 claries disclosure requirements for government related entities and amends the denition of a related party.
U IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments claries the accounting treatment for when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt, such that the liability is extinguished, in whole or in part, by the entity issuing its own equity instruments to the lender referred to as a debt for equity swap.
It addresses the accounting for such a transaction by the debtor only.
U Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement: The amendment to IFRIC 14 removes unintended consequences of when an entity is subject to a minimum funding requirement MFR and makes an early payment of contributions to cover those requirements.
The amendment results in prepayments of contributions in certain circumstances being recognised as an asset rather than an expense.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 None of the above standards and interpretations have had any impact on profit, earnings per share or net assets in the year ended 31 March 2012.
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under the annual improvement project to IFRS, which are mandatory for the year ended 31 March 2012, have been adopted in the year.
None of these amendments have had a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
B BASIS OF PREPARATION The Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest 0.1 million and are prepared on the historical cost basis except as described below under the heading Financial Instruments.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The key judgements made in respect of the appropriateness of the Group accounting policies relate to: U ii iiLiVL The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The key judgements involved are the identication and valuation of intangible assets which require the estimation of future cash ows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
See Note 13 U iv }Li iV`}}` ` }Li i Goodwill is held at cost and tested annually for impairment, and amortised intangibles and tangible assets are tested for impairment where there are indications of impairment.
These impairment tests require the Group to make an estimate of the expected cash ows and to select suitable discount rates.
These require an estimation of the value-in-use of these assets.
See Note 13 U i``iiiV Capitalised development costs involve judgements around the future economic benets that will ow from the associated development activity and in particular the Groups assessment of the technical and commercial feasibility of the product to be developed.
U i iiv`iwi`LiiwVii Li The Group recognises and measures costs relating to dened benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benets.
In applying IAS 19 the costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualied actuaries.
This requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the estimation of future changes in salaries and ination, as well as mortality rates, expected returns on plan assets and the selection of suitable discount rates.
Further detail is provided in note 21.
U Provisions are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outow of funds resulting from past expectations or events which can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances which can be subject to change.
Amounts provided represent the Groups best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
U ivii` i A deferred tax asset is recognised in the period if it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
This requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the estimation of future taxable profit.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key areas where estimates have been used and assumptions applied are in the calculation of provisions, the valuation of acquired intangible assets, the impairment testing of goodwill and the estimation of dened benefit pension plan liabilities.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued 58 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 C BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group accounts include the accounts of Oxford Instruments plc and its subsidiary companies adjusted to eliminate intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of subsidiary companies are included from the date that control is obtained to the date of their disposal, where control is lost.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the end of the reporting period.
Income statements and cash ows of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average quarterly exchange rates which approximate foreign exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate translation reserve.
The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
D FOREIGN CURRENCY An individual entitys transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
E FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
i The Groups investments in equity securities are classied as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on available for sale monetary items, are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit and loss.
ii Derivative financial instruments of the Group are used to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and commodity pricing risks arising from operational, nancing and investment activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Derivatives comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options and metal futures contracts are classied as fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39, unless designated as hedges.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and gains or losses on the settlement of such derivatives are recognised in operating expenses.
Where such derivatives relate to the following years exposure, any gains or losses resulting from the change in fair value are taken to the mark to market gains losses line within financial income or expense.
iii Cash ow hedges Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instruments designated as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
When the hedge item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised.
In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Statement of Income in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
iv The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes.
Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash ows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.
v The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 vi Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis.
F PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment see accounting policy L and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
Depreciation is provided based on historical cost less estimated residual value.
The principle estimated economic lives used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings, long leasehold land and buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements less than 50 years duration Period of lease Furniture and ttings 10 years Machinery and other equipment 5 to 10 years Computer equipment 4 years Vehicles 4 years Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in the Income Statement.
G INTANGIBLE ASSETS ` All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 31 March 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP.
The company now expenses transaction costs associated with its acquisitions and movements in liabilities relating to contingent consideration within the income statement in conformity with the revised IFRS3.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and allocated to cash-generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination.
It is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy L, or more frequently when there is an indicator that the unit may be impaired.
ii Development costs Research and development costs are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income in the year in which they are incurred unless development expenditure is applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products in which case they are capitalised.
The criteria for capitalisation include demonstration of the technical feasibility of completing a new intangible asset that will be available for sale and that the asset will generate probable future economic benets.
Where expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised and amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Income over their useful economic lives.
iii Acquired intangible assets An intangible asset acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benets and its fair value can be reliably measured.
The asset is amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Income over it useful economic life.
iv Amortisation Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income on a systematic basis in proportion to the use of the assets over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Capitalised development costs 3 to 5 years Technology related acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years Customer related acquired intangibles 6 months to 8 years FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued 60 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 H TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently stated at their amortised cost less appropriate allowances for amounts which are expected to be non-recoverable.
I Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes materials, direct labour, an attributable proportion of production overheads based on normal operating capacity and all other expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stock where appropriate in light of recent usage, expected future requirements, new product introduction plans and likely realisable values.
J CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits and are carried at amortised cost.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
K NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE A non-current asset is classied as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
Immediately before classication as held for sale, the measurement of the assets is brought up-to-date in accordance with applicable IFRSs.
Then, on initial classication as held for sale, non-current assets are recognised at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classication as held for sale are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income, even when the asset has previously been revalued.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
L IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review.
For the purposes of impairment testing assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash ows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inows from other groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income reorganisation costs and impairment to the extent that an assets carrying value, or a cash generating units carrying value, exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of its net realisable value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash ows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had the impairment loss not been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 M EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates a number of dened benefit and dened contribution plans which require contributions to be made to independent trustee administered funds.
iwi`VL Obligations for contributions to dened contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred.
iwi`Liiw The Groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that current and past employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses in calculating the Groups net obligation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year.
The charge to the Consolidated Statement of Income reects the current service cost.
The expected return on scheme assets and the interest cost on scheme liabilities are included within financial income or financial expenditure in the Consolidated Statement of Income respectively.
iii Share-based payment transactions The fair value of equity settled share option programmes is measured at grant date and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market performance conditions not being met.
N PROVISIONS A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
A provision for warranty is recognised when the underlying products are sold.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benets to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money, and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liabilities.
O TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
P INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued 62 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Q REVENUE Revenue is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer.
Revenue excludes value added tax and similar sales based taxes, represents sales to external customers of products and services and is stated before commissions payable to agents.
Revenue is recognised on shipment, except for installation and service contracts.
Revenue from installation is separately recognised on completion of the installation.
Revenue from contracts for maintenance and support is recognised on a pro-rata basis over the contract period.
R INCOME TAX Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that effect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
S LEASE PAYMENTS Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
T SEGMENT REPORTING An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including any revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Operating segments are combined into aggregated operating segments to the extent that they have similar economic characteristics.
Aggregated operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Groups Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, for which discrete financial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the Board include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
A reportable segment is an aggregated operating segment in respect of which revenue or profit exceeds 10% of the Group total.
Discrete financial information is disclosed for each reportable segment.
U DIVIDENDS Interim and final dividends are recognised as a liability when they are no longer at the discretion of the company.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 V NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED The following amendment has been published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, and is available for early adoption but has not yet been applied by the Group in these Financial Statements: U Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets: will require additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets, e. g. securitisations and should enable users to understand the possible effects of any risks that may remain with the transferor.
The amendment also requires additional disclosures if a disproportionate amount of transfer transactions are undertaken around the end of a reporting period.
The Group has considered the impact of this amendment in future periods on profit, earnings per share and net assets.
It is not expected to have a material impact.
A number of other new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB, although they are not yet endorsed by the EU, and are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 April 2012.
They have not been applied in preparing these consolidated Financial Statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on profit, earnings per share or net assets of the consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, with the exception of: U Amendment to IAS 19, which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2013 and could reduce reported profits and earnings per share as the expected return on pension plan assets is required to be calculated by applying the discount rate used for scheme liabilities to scheme assets.
U IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2015 and could change the classication and measurement of financial assets.
The impact of these new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations has not yet been determined.
