Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern and Accounts and the Group and Company Financial Statements basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and Company will continue in business.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors on the same basis.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Under company law the directors must not approve the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the alsoresponsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Directors are required to: Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrityof the corporate and financial information included make judgements and accounting estimates that onthe Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom arereasonable and prudent: governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial state whether they have been prepared in accordance Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
withIFRS as adopted by the EU: and Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 31
