106 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Short-term deposits and marketable securities with maturities of greater than three months do not qualify g. Inventories as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net financial instruments are classified as cash flows realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in from financing activities in the cash flow statement first out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods where these amounts are used to offset the and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from labour, other direct costs and related production investing activities where these amounts are held overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling to generate an investment return.
price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made k. Share capital for slow moving and obsolete stock.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
h. Royalty advances Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue Advances of royalties to authors are included within of new shares or options are shown in equity as trade and other receivables when the advance is paid a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
less any provision required to adjust the advance to Where any Group company purchases the companys its net realisable value.
The realisable value of royalty equity share capital treasury shares the consideration advances relies on a degree of management judgement paid, including any directly attributable incremental in determining the profitability of individual author costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from equity contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author attributable to the companys equity holders until the contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse effect shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where on operating profits as these excess amounts will be such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any written off.
consideration received, net of any directly attributable The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon transaction costs and the related income tax effects, an annual detailed management review of the age of is included in equity attributable to the companys the advance, the future sales projections for new equity holders.
authors and prior sales history of repeat authors.
l. Borrowings The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which or effective royalty rate as the related revenues are is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
Royalty advances which will be consumed Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost within one year are held in current assets.
Royalty with any difference between the proceeds net of advances which will be consumed after one year are transaction costs and the redemption value being held in non-current assets.
recognised in the income statement over the period i.
Newspaper development costs of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Investment in the development of newspaper titles Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
consists of measures to increase the volume and Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging geographical spread of circulation.
The measures relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying value include additional and enhanced editorial content, in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk.
extended distribution and remote printing.
These costs Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income are expensed as incurred as they do not meet the statement as incurred.
criteria under IAS 38 Intangible Assets to be m. Derivative financial instruments capitalised as intangible assets.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value and rej.
Cash and cash equivalents measured at each balance sheet date.
The fair value Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement of derivatives is determined by using market data and include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, the use of established estimation techniques such as other short-term highly liquid investments with discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
original maturities of three months or less, and bank The Group designates certain of the derivative overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings instruments within its portfolio to be hedges of in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
