OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 141 19.
Financial risk management continued Foreign currency risk management Although the Group is based in the UK, it has its most significant investment in overseas operations.
The most significant currency for the Group is the US dollar.
The Groups policy on routine transactional conversions between currencies for example, the collection of receivables, and the settlement of payables or interest remains that these should be transacted at the relevant spot exchange rate.
The majority of the Groups operations are domestic within their country of operation.
No unremitted profits are hedged with foreign exchange contracts, as the company judges it inappropriate to hedge non-cash flow translational exposure with cash flow instruments.
However, the Group does seek to create a natural hedge of this exposure through its policy of aligning approximately the currency composition of its core net borrowings after the impact of cross-currency rate derivatives with its forecast operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
This policy aims to soften the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on consolidated interest cover and earnings.
The policy above applies only to currencies that account for more than 15% of Group operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, which currently is only the US dollar.
The Group still borrows small amounts in other currencies, typically for seasonal working capital needs.
Our policy does not require existing currency debt to be terminated to match declines in that currencys share of Group operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
In addition, currencies that account for less than 15% of Group operating profit before depreciation and amortisation can be included in the above hedging process at the request of the chief financial officer.
Included within year end net debt, the net borrowings cash in the hedging currencies above taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps were: US dollar 1,354m, sterling 58m and South African rand 17 m. Use of currency debt and currency derivatives The Group uses both currency denominated debt and derivative instruments to implement the above policy.
Its intention is that gains losses on the derivatives and debt offset the losses gains on the foreign currency assets and income.
Each quarter the value of hedging instruments is monitored against the assets in the relevant currency and, where practical, a decision is made whether to treat the debt or derivative as a net investment hedge permitting foreign exchange movements on it to be taken to reserves for the purposes of IAS 39.
Financial instruments fair value measurement The following table provides an analysis of those financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
142 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued Financial instruments fair value measurement continued 2012 2011 All figures in millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at fair value Derivative financial assets 178 178 177 177 Marketable securities 6 6 9 9 Available for sale financial assets Investments in unlisted securities continuing operations 30 30 26 26 Investments in unlisted securities classified within assets held for sale 1 1 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial liabilities 3 3 Other financial liabilities put options over non-controlling interest 68 68 86 86 Total 184 37 147 183 60 123 The following table analyses the movements in level 3 fair value measurements: 2012 2011 Investments in Investments in unlisted unlisted Other financial Other financial All figures in millions securities liabilities securities liabilities At beginning of year 26 86 58 25 Exchange differences 2 5 3 Additions 10 13 63 Fair value movements 25 1 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 Disposals 2 38 45 At end of year 31 68 26 86 The fair value of the investments in unlisted securities is determined by reference to the financial performance of the underlying asset and amounts realised on the sale of similar assets.
The fair value of other financial liabilities represents the present value of the estimated future liability.
