184 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes Reliance on this document By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events Our Business Review on pages 02 to 43 has been and depend on circumstances that will occur in the prepared in accordance with the Directors Report future.
There are a number of factors which could Business Review Requirements of section 417 of the cause actual results and developments to differ Companies Act 2006.
It also incorporates much of materially from those expressed or implied by these the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards forward-looking statements, including a number of Boards Reporting Statement on the Operating and factors outside Pearsons control.
statements speak only as of the date they are made, The intention of this document is to provide and Pearson gives no undertaking to update forwardinformation to shareholders and is not designed to be looking statements to reflect any changes in its relied upon by any other party or for any other expectations with regard thereto or any changes to purpose.
events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Forward-looking statements This document contains forward-looking statements which are made by the directors in good faith based on information available to them at the time of approval of this report.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing, anticipated costs savings and synergies and the execution of Pearsons strategy, are forward-looking statements.
Design and Production: Radley Yeldar London www.
com This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Print: Pureprint Group Offset which is FSC certied and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp.
The mill and the Pearson has supported the planting of 550 square metres printer are both certied to ISO 14001 environmental of new native woodland with the Woodland Trust, helping management system and registered to EMAS the eco to remove 22 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions management Audit Scheme.
The report was printed generated by the production of this report.
using vegetable based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer.
