OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 169 Notes to the company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The financial statements on pages 166 to 174 comprise the separate financial statements of Pearson plc.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, only the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income has been presented.
The company has no employees.
The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these company financial statements are the same as those set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements with the addition of the following: Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment, with the exception of certain hedged investments that are held in a foreign currency and revalued at each balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiaries All figures in millions 2012 2011 At beginning of year 9,056 9,180 Subscription for share capital in subsidiaries 110 279 Disposals liquidations 413 Currency revaluations 58 10 At end of year 9,108 9,056 3.
Financial risk management The companys financial instruments comprise amounts due to from subsidiary undertakings, cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and current and non-current borrowings.
Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value, with all other financial instruments held at amortised cost.
The companys approach to the management of financial risks is consistent with the Groups treasury policy, as discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The company believes the value of its financial assets to be fully recoverable.
The company designates certain of its qualifying derivative financial instruments as hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges.
Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with any change in the fair value of the hedged liability attributable to the hedged risk.
The carrying value of the companys financial instruments is exposed to movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates primarily US dollars.
The company estimates that a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a 55m decrease in the carrying value of its financial instruments, with a 1% decrease in interest rates resulting in a 54m increase in their carrying value.
The company also estimates that a 10% strengthening in sterling would decrease the carrying value of its financial instruments by 126m, while a 10% decrease in the value of sterling would increase the carrying value by 154m.
These increases and decreases in carrying value would be recorded through the income statement.
Sensitivities are calculated using estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
Where modelling an interest rate decrease of 1% led to negative interest rates, these points on the yield curve were adjusted to 0%.
