104 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, b.
Consolidation continued and of borrowings and other currency instruments The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates designated as hedges of such investments, are taken post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the to shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific income statement and its share of post-acquisition inter-company loan balances, which are not intended movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
to be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates investment.
When a foreign operation is sold, such results is recognised as a component of operating exchange differences are recognised in the income profit as these operations form part of the core statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
publishing business of the Group and are an integral part of existing wholly-owned businesses.
The principal overseas currency for the Group is the The cumulative post-acquisition movements are US dollar.
The average rate for the year against sterling adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
was $1.59 2011: $1.60 and the year end rate was When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or $1.63 2011: $1.55.
associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint d. Property, plant and equipment venture or associate the Group does not recognise Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical further losses unless the Group has incurred cost less depreciation.
obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the venture or associate.
straight-line method to allocate their cost less their c. Foreign currency translation residual values over their estimated useful lives 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in as follows: the financial statements of each of the Groups entities Buildings freehold : 2050 years are measured using the currency of the primary Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease economic environment in which the entity operates Plant and equipment: 310 years the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the The assets residual values and useful lives are companys functional and presentation currency.
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency sheet date.
transactions are translated into the functional currency The carrying value of an asset is written down to its using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of e. Intangible assets monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made currencies are recognised in the income statement, on or after 1 January 2010 goodwill represents the except when deferred in equity as qualifying net excess of the consideration transferred, the amount investment hedges.
of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity 3.
Group companies The results and financial position interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the of all Group companies that have a functional currency identifiable net assets acquired.
For the acquisition of different from the presentation currency are translated subsidiaries made from the date of transition to IFRS into the presentation currency as follows: to 31 December 2009 goodwill represents the excess i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the at the date of the balance sheet: Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in ii income and expenses are translated at average intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates exchange rates: and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share as a separate component of equity.
of the net identifiable assets acquired.
