OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 63 Powers of the directors Subject to the companys Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the company: Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated November 2010 which matures in November 2015 between, amongst others, the company, HSBC Bank plc as facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders the Facility, any such bank may, upon a change of control of the company, require its outstanding advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Facility, and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of notification to the banks by the facility agent.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any other company or one or more persons acting either individually or in concert, obtains control as defined in section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the company.
Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the company.
64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration Dear shareholders Principles of remuneration policy Our reward policy is aligned with the interests I am pleased to present our report on directors of all stakeholders in providing: remuneration for 2012, which will be put forward for your consideration and approval at the annual competitive base salaries that reflect the market general meeting on 26 April 2013. and individual roles and contribution a high proportion of variable remuneration that The remuneration committee believes that the is directly linked to the annual and long-term purpose of its remuneration policy is to support the performance of the company companys strategy and to help deliver sustained performance and consistent long-term value creation annual incentives that reward achievement in the interests of all stakeholders.
of strategic goals long-term incentives that drive long-term earnings Performance in 2012 and share price growth and encourage people to Performance has been resilient in very tough acquire and hold Pearson shares in line with conditions and the company has delivered: shareholders interests strong competitive performance many people at Pearson with the opportunity to share in the companys success through cash-based annual operating profit broadly level incentives and bonuses and worldwide participation in with the record profits in 2011 share ownership plans, continuing practices first started in 1998 return on invested capital above Market conditions our cost of capital The remuneration committee is sensitive to the current social and economic environment surrounding Pearsons 21st straight year of executive compensation.
increasing our dividend above the We welcome the coalition governments proposals to rate of inflation.
Over the past improve the clarity and transparency of remuneration disclosure.
Although the regulations have not yet been ten years we have increased our finalised, we have adopted many of the dividend at a compound annual rate recommendations in this years report.
of 7%, returning more than 2.5bn We hope that these changes will continue to to shareholders demonstrate the link between our remuneration policy and practice and the companys strategy and performance, as well as our commitment to shareholder engagement.
We continue to keep our remuneration policy under review in light of the prevailing economic conditions and the impact of these on the companys objectives and strategy.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 65 What weve planned for 2013 What we did in 2012 Looking forward, for 2013: Looking back to some specific aspects of policy and practice in 2012: we undertook a periodic review of base salaries for 2013 taking into account general economic and market we undertook a periodic review of base salaries for conditions, the level of increases made across the 2012 and, in light of the prevailing economic conditions company as a whole, the remuneration of executives and consistent with the action that continues to be in similar positions in comparable companies and taken across the company to control costs, the individual performance committee endorsed the recommendation of the executive directors and other members of the Pearson we reviewed and established an appropriate starting Management Committee that they receive no increase remuneration package for the new CEO comprising in base salaries base salary, annual and long-term incentives, allowances and benefits annual incentives paid to executives for 2012 performance were significantly lower than for 2011, we reviewed and amended the service agreements for reflecting performance in a tough business environment those executive directors, including the CEO, who will and more challenging incentive targets continue to serve throughout 2013.
The consequence of this review has been to remove any entitlement to we reduced the number of shares awarded to annual incentive from the calculation of any the Pearson Management Committee as their longcompensation that might be payable on termination of term incentives employment by the company without notice or cause Our policy and implementation is summarised in more detail in the remainder of this report.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow members of the committee and the people who have assisted us for their contribution over the past year and to give special appreciation to Patrick Cescau who stood down from the committee during 2012.
David Arculus Chairman, Remuneration Committee 66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Introduction The rest of this report on directors remuneration comprises: a policy report a forward-looking statement on remuneration policy for 2013 and beyond: and an implementation report a report on remuneration practice in 2012 Together, this report complies with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and was approved by the board of directors on 7 March 2013.
The committee believes that the company has complied with the provisions regarding remuneration matters contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where required under current regulations, the following tables have been subject to audit: total remuneration page 80 pension entitlements and pension-related benefits page 83 movements in directors interests in restricted shares pages 86 to 88 movements in directors interests in share options page 89 OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 67 Policy report Summary of remuneration policy The following table summarises the companys policy on directors remuneration that applies to executive Remuneration policy and business strategy directors and other members of the Pearson The committee considers that a successful Management Committee for 2013 and, so far as remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible practicable, for subsequent years.
We have taken to take account of future changes in the companys account of the coalition governments proposed business environment and in remuneration practice.
regulations on the disclosure of remuneration policy Our starting point continues to be that total but the format and level of detail in the policy table remuneration should reward both shortand longmay evolve in subsequent years in line with the final term results, delivering competitive rewards for disclosure requirements.
target performance but outstanding rewards for exceptional performance.
Our goal as a company is to be the worlds leading learning company and to help people of all ages make progress in their lives through all kinds of learning.
Pearsons strategy has for some years focused on growth in digital products, educational services and emerging markets.
We are now accelerating the implementation of that strategy through: four global businesses we are focusing on school, higher education, English-language learning and business education.
We are taking an increasingly global view of educational needs and trends four types of geographic market we will carefully evaluate when we offer global products and services, when we customise for local needs, and when we require a true local approach.
We will focus our investment on markets with the biggest growth opportunities four business models we will channel our investment into four proven business models: direct-to-consumer: Pearson Inside our shorthand for institutional services such as our school systems in Brazil : assessment: and learning systems Those measures complement our more traditional financial measures and goals but they do not, of course, replace them.
In financial terms, Pearsons goal is to achieve sustainable growth on three key financial goals earnings, cash and return on invested capital, and reliable cash returns to our investors through healthy and growing dividends.
We believe those are, in concert, good indicators that we are building the long-term value of Pearson.
So those measures or others that contribute to them, such as sales, profit, and working capital form the basis of our annual budgets and plans, and the basis for bonuses and longterm incentives.
68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration: Policy table Introduction Total remuneration is made up of xed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting different strategic objectives.
Total remuneration is normally reviewed annually and benchmarked against totalremuneration for similar positions in comparable companies.
Base salary PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE PERIOD Helps to recruit, reward and retain.
Reflects competitive market level, role, skills, IMPLEMENTATION experience and individual contribution.
There were no increases to base salaries in 2012 OPERATION for executive directors and other members of the Pearson Management Committee.
Base salaries for Normally reviewed annually for the following year 2012 are reported in the total remuneration table taking into account general economic and market onpage 80. conditions, the level of increases made across the company as a whole, the remuneration of executives For 2013, we reviewed base salaries consistent with in similar positions in comparable companies and our policy set out above.
OTHER EMPLOYEES OPPORTUNITY The approach to setting base salary increases Normally reviewed in line with increases across elsewhere in the company takes into account thecompany as a whole, subject to particular economic factors, competitive market rates, roles, circumstances such as changes in role, responsibilities skills, experience and individual performance.
or organisation, current remuneration relative to the The increase in wages and salaries for the company mid-market position across our comparator groups asa whole is reported in note 5 to the financial and thelevel of increases for executives generally.
PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS None, although performance of both the company and the individual are taken into account when determining an appropriate level of base salary increase each year.
Allowances and benets PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Help to recruit and retain.
Include inter alia cash allowances and non-cash benets IMPLEMENTATION such as health and welfare and car benets.
Allowances and benets Allowances and benets do not form part of for2012 are reported in the total remuneration table pensionable earnings.
OPPORTUNITY OTHER EMPLOYEES The provision and level of allowances and benets Allowances and benets for employees reect the are competitive and appropriate in the context of the local labour market in which they are based.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 69 Retirement benets Employees who satisfied criteria of age and service as PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY of 30 November 1998 continue to earn benets under Help to recruit and retain.
an alternative formula that provides for 1.5% of final Recognise long-term commitment to the company.
average earnings, adjusted for US Social Security.
The benefit paid to these employees is the maximum of the OPERATION lump sum benefit converted to an annuity and the New employees in the UK are eligible to join the benefit earned under the alternative final average Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group earnings formula.
New employees in the US are eligible tojoin the 401 k plan.
Executive directors and other executives across the company are entitled to additional pension benets Under the Money Purchase 2003 section of the totake account of the cap on the amount of benets Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK, normal that can be provided from the all-employee pension retirement age is 62, but, subject to company consent, arrangements in the US and the UK.
retirement is currently possible from age 55 or earlier in the event of ill-health.
During service, the company OPPORTUNITY and the employee make contributions into a pension In the UK, company contributions to the Money fund.
Account balances are used to provide benets Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension atretirement.
Pensions for a members spouse, Plan amount up to 16% of pensionable salary double dependent children and or nominated financial the amount of the employee contribution, which is dependants are payable on death.
limited according to certain agebands.
Under the 401 k plan in the US, which is a dened In the US, company contributions to the 401 k plan contribution plan, account balances will be used to amount to 100% of the first 3% of eligible compensation provide benets at retirement.
In the event of death contributed by the employee and 50% of the next 3%, before retirement, the account balances will be used plus a basic annual company contribution of 1.25% to provide benets for designated beneciaries.
Pearson Inc. Pension Plan Longer serving directors with legacy arrangements participants who were at least age 40 at 31 December may participate in the dened benefit Pearson Inc. 2001 can receive an additional 0.5% 1.5% of pay.
Pension Plan in the US or the Final Pay section of the PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK, which are None.
Under the Final Pay section of the Pearson Group PERFORMANCE PERIOD Pension Plan in the UK, normal retirement age is 62, None.
but, subject to company consent, retirement is IMPLEMENTATION currently possible from age 55 or earlier in the event ofill-health.
During service, the employee makes a No change.
contribution of 5% of pensionable salary and the Retirement benets are reported on page 83. pension fund builds up based on final pensionable salary and pensionable service.
The accrued pension OTHER EMPLOYEES isreduced on retirement prior to age60.
Pensions Executive directors participate in the same pension fora members spouse, dependent children and or arrangements that have been set up for Pearson nominated financial dependants are payable on death.
employees in the US and the UK.
In the US, the dened benefit Pearson Inc. Pension Note 1 Members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who joined after May 1989 Plan provides a lump sum benefit that is convertible are subject to an upper limit of earnings that can be used for pension purposes, known as the earnings cap.
This limit, 108,600 as at 6 April 2006, was abolished toan annuity on retirement.
The lump sum benefit by the Finance Act 2004.
However the Pearson Group Pension Plan has retained accrued at an age dependent percentage of capped its own cap, which will increase annually in line with the UK Governments compensation until 31 December 2001 when further Index of Retail Prices All Items.
The cap was 137,400 as at 6 April 2012. benefit accruals ceased for most employees.
Note 2 As a result of the UK Governments A-Day changes effective from April 2006, UK executive directors and other members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who are, or become, affected by the lifetime allowance may be provided with a cash supplement as an alternative to further accrual of pension benets on a basis that is broadly cost neutral to the company.
Effective from 6April 2011, the annual allowance i. e. the maximum amount of pension saving that benets from tax relief each year reduced from 255,000 to 50,000.
Effective 6 April 2012, the lifetime allowance i. e. the maximum amount of pension and or lump sum that can benefit from tax relief reduced from 1.8m to 1.5m.
70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration: Policy table continued Annual incentives PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Motivate achievement of annual strategic goals Subject to the achievement of targets for sales, and personal objectives.
growthin underlying earnings per share for continuing operations at constant exchange rates for Pearson Provide focus on key financial metrics.
plc or operating profit for the operating companies, Reward individual contribution to the success average working capital as a ratio to sales, operating of the company.
cash ow and personal objectives.
OPERATION The selection and weighting of performance measures Up to 90% of total opportunity is based on financial takes into account the strategic objectives and the performance at the corporate and business unit level.
business priorities relevant to each operating company Up to 50% of total opportunity is based on and to Pearson overall each year.
Personal objectives are agreed withthe chief executive The committee establishes threshold, target and or, in the case of the chief executive, the chairman maximum levels of performance for different levels and may be functional, operational, strategic and nonofpayout.
financial and include inter alia objectives relating to environmental, social and governance issues.
Performance is measured separately for each item.
PERFORMANCE PERIOD Annual incentive payments do not form part of pensionable earnings.
OPPORTUNITY IMPLEMENTATION For the chief executive, maximum opportunity Annual incentive payments for 2012 are reported is 180% of base salary.
in the total remuneration table on page 80.
For other members of the Pearson Management For 2013, the maximum annual incentive opportunity Committee, individual incentive opportunities take for the chief executive remains at 180% of base salary into account their membership of that committee and up to 175% of base salary for the other members andthe relative contribution of their businesses or of the Pearson Management Committee.
roles tothe companys overall goals, with a maximum OTHER EMPLOYEES opportunity of up to 175% of salary.
Many people participate in some form of cash-based For the chief executive and other members of the annual incentive, bonus, profit-share or sales Pearson Management Committee, there is normally no commission plan.
payout for performance at threshold.
The performance range sets a careful balance between upside opportunity Annual incentive plans for the Pearson Management and downside risk and is normally based on targets in Committee form the basis of the annual incentive accordance with the operating plan.
plans below the level of the principal operating companies and establish performance measures Annual incentive plans are discretionary and the andstandards and set the ceiling for individual committee reserves the right to make adjustments to incentive opportunities.
payments up or down if it believes exceptional factors warrant doing so.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 71 Long-term incentives individual roles and responsibilities: and PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY company and individual performance.
Help to recruit, reward and retain.
PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Drive long-term earnings and share price growth andvalue creation.
Subject to the achievement of targets for relative total Align interests of executives and shareholders.
shareholder return, return on invested capital and earnings per share growth, with normally one third of Encourage long-term shareholding and commitment the award based on each.
The committee determines to the company.
the performance measures and targets governing an Link corporate performance to managements longaward of restricted shares prior to grant.
term reward in a flexible way.
PERFORMANCE PERIOD OPERATION Three years.
Last approved by shareholders in 2011.
Awards may be delivered in restricted shares and or share options, IMPLEMENTATION although it is not the committees intention to grant No change.
share options for the foreseeable future.
Awards are reported in the movements in directors Awards for executive directors and other members interests in restricted shares and share options tables of the Pearson Management Committee vest on a on pages 86 to 89. sliding scale based on performance against stretching OTHER EMPLOYEES corporate performance targets.
75% of the vested award is released at the end of the three-year Approximately 6% of the companys employees below performance period and the remaining 25% only vests the Pearson Management Committee selected on if theparticipant retains the after-tax number of thebasis of their role, performance and potential sharesfor afurther two years.
currently hold time-vesting shares under the long-term incentive plan.
Restricted shares may be granted without performance conditions to satisfy recruitment and retention objectives, All employees including executive directors are also but not to any of the current executive directors.
eligible to participate in savings-related share acquisition programmes in the UK, US and rest of world, which are Where shares vest, participants also receive additional not subject to any performance conditions.
shares representing the gross value of dividends that would have been paid on these shares during the Note 3 Total shareholder return TSR is the return to shareholders from performance period and reinvested.
any growth in Pearsons share price and reinvested dividends over the performance period.
For long-term incentive awards, TSR is measured relative Pearsons reported financial results for the relevant to the constituents of the FTSE World Media Index over a three-year period.
Companies that drop out of the index are normally excluded i. e. only companies periods are used to measure performance.
in the index for the entire period are counted.
Share price is averaged over 20 days at the start and end of the performance period, commencing on the date The committee has discretion to make adjustments ofPearsons results announcement in the year of grant and the year of vesting.
taking into account exceptional factors that distort Dividends are treated as reinvested on the ex-dividend date, in line with the Datastream methodology.
The vesting of shares based on relative TSR is subject underlying business performance.
In exercising such to the committee satisfying itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine reection of discretion, the committee is guided by the principle the underlying financial performance of the business.
The committee chose TSR ofaligning shareholder and management interests.
relative to the constituents of the FTSE World Media Index because, in line with many of our shareholders, it felt that part of executive directors rewards should Nosuch adjustments were made for performance be linked to performance relative to the companys peers.
Note 4 Return on invested capital ROIC is adjusted operating profit less cash tax expressed as a percentage of gross invested capital OPPORTUNITY net operating assets plus gross goodwill.
We chose ROIC because, over the past few years, the transformation of Pearson has signicantly increased the We set the level of individual awards by taking capital invested in the business mostly in the form of goodwill associated with acquisitions and required substantial cash investment to integrate into account: those acquisitions.
the face value of individual awards at the time of grant, Note 5 Adjusted earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders of the company by the assuming that performance targets are met in full: weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding market practice for comparable companies and any ordinary shares purchased by the company and held in trust see note 8 of the financial statements for a detailed description of adjusted earnings per market assessments of total remuneration from share.
EPS growth is calculated using the point-to-point method.
This method ourindependent advisers: compares the adjusted EPS in the companys accounts for the financial year ended prior to the grant date with the adjusted EPS for the financial year ending three years later and calculates the implicit compound annual growth rate over the period.
We chose EPS growth because strong bottom-line growth is imperative if we are to improve our TSR and our ROIC.
72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration: Policy table continued Bonus share matching PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Maximum matching award is achieved if the companys Encourages executive directors and other senior earnings per share increase in real terms by 5% per managers to acquire and hold Pearson shares.
annum compound over the three-year performance Aligns interests of executives and shareholders.
50% of the maximum matching award is OPERATION released if the companys adjusted earnings per share increase in real terms by 3% per annum compound First approved by shareholders in 1998: last approved over the same period.
Matching shares are calculated by shareholders in 2008. on a straight-line basis for performance between Senior managers across the company are invited to threshold and maximum.
invest up to 50% of their after-tax annual incentive PERFORMANCE PERIOD in Pearson shares and hold these shares for three Three years.
years, in return for the opportunity to earn additional free matching shares and dividend shares, depending IMPLEMENTATION on performance against the earnings per share No change.
Awards are reported in the movements in directors Where matching shares vest, participants also receive interests in restricted shares table on pages 86 to 88. additional shares representing the gross value of dividends that would have been paid on the matching OTHER EMPLOYEES shares during the performance period and reinvested.
Around 450 senior managers across the company OPPORTUNITY areeligible to participate in this plan, typically direct reports to the operating company CEOs, their senior Maximum matching award is equal to the number management teams, and anyone who has a direct and of shares that could have been acquired with the significant inuence on corporate strategy and financial amount of pre-tax annual bonus invested in Pearson performance.
shares i. e. one matching share for every one invested Note 6 Earnings per share growth is calculated using the point-to-point share, grossed up for tax.
method, which compares the adjusted earnings per share in the companys accounts for the financial year ended prior to the grant date with the adjusted earnings per share for the financial year ending three years later and calculates the implicit compound annual growth rate over the period.
Real growth is calculated by reference to the UK Governments Retail Prices Index All Items.
Share ownership guidelines PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Align interests of executives and shareholders.
OPERATION PERFORMANCE PERIOD Executive directors are expected to build up a None.
substantial shareholding in the company in line with IMPLEMENTATION thepolicy of encouraging widespread employee ownership.
Shares that count towards these guidelines No change.
include any shares held unencumbered by the Directors interests are reported on page 90. executive, their spouse and or dependent children Allexecutive directors comfortably exceeded plus any shares vested but held pending release under theseguidelines in 2012. a restricted share plan.
OTHER EMPLOYEES Executive directors have five years from the date There are no mandatory share ownership guidelines ofappointment to reach the guideline.
below executive director level, although employees are OPPORTUNITY encouraged to become shareholders in the company Target holding is two times salary for the chief byretaining shares acquired through the companys executive and 1.25 times salary for the other executive discretionary and all-employee stock programmes.
directors, consistent with median practice in FTSE 100 companies that operated such arrangements when theguideline was set.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 73 Service agreements PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE PERIOD Provide an appropriate level of protection for the None.
executive and the company by: IMPLEMENTATION setting out individual entitlements to elements The service agreements for the executive directors, ofremuneration consistent with policy including the CEO, who will continue to serve summarising notice periods and compensation on throughout 2013 were reviewed and amended.
termination of employment by the company without The consequence of this review has been to remove notice or cause any entitlement to annual incentive from the describing the obligations in relation to calculation of any compensation that might be payable confidentiality, data protection, intellectual property in the event of termination of employment by the and restraint on certain activities company without notice or cause.
Details of each individuals service agreement are reported in the OPERATION notes below.
The policy on executive directors service agreements was reviewed in 2008, 2010 and again in 2012.
In OTHER EMPLOYEES accordance with long established policy, all executive Employment agreements for other employees below directors have rolling service agreements under which, the Pearson Management Committee are determined other than by termination in accordance with the according to local labour law and market practice.
terms of these agreements, employment continues until retirement.
Note 7 We summarise the service agreements that will apply to directors serving during 2013 as follows: There are no special provisions for notice or compensation in the event of a change ofcontrol Compensation on termination ofPearson.
Date of Notice of employment by the company Name agreement periods without notice or cause On termination of employment, executive directors Glen 29 July 12 months from Payment-in-lieu of notice of 100% entitlements to any vested or unvested awards under Moreno 2005 the director: of annual fees at the date of 12 months from termination Pearsons discretionary share plans aretreated in the company accordance with the terms of the relevant plan.
John 31 December Six months from Payment-in-lieu of notice of 100% OPPORTUNITY Fallon 2012 the director: of annual salary at the date of 12 months from termination and the annual cost The company may terminate executive directors the company of pension and all other benets service agreements by giving no more than Will 31 December Six months from Severance payments of 100% 12 monthsnotice.
Ethridge 2012 the director: of annual salary at the date of 12 months from termination and the annual cost As an alternative, the company may at its discretion the company of pension and all other benets pay in lieu of that notice.
Payment-in-lieu of notice Robin 17 December Six months from Payment-in-lieu of notice of 100% maybe made in instalments and may be subject to Freestone 2012 the director: of annual salary at the date of 12 months from termination and the annual cost mitigation.
Longer serving directors with legacy the company of pension and all other benets agreements are entitled to liquidated damages if the John 21 December Six months from Liquidated damages of 100% company terminates their agreement without notice Makinson 2012 the director: of annual salary at the date of or cause.
12 months from termination and the annual cost the company of pension and all other benets For executive directors whose service will continue throughout 2013, compensation on termination of Note 8 Marjorie Scardino served under her service agreement dated employment by the company without notice or cause 27February 2004 until she left employment on 31 December 2012.
Thisagreement provided for notice periods of six months from the director comprises 100% of the annual salary atthe date and12months from the company and compensation on termination of oftermination and the annual cost to the company employment by the companywithout notice or cause of 100% of annual salary atthe date of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benets ofproviding pension andall other benets.
Note 9 Rona Fairheads service agreement dated 24 January 2003 continues PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS ineffect for the first four months of 2013 until she leaves the company on 30April 2013.
This agreement provides for notice periods of six months from None.
the director and 12 months from the company and compensation on termination of employment by the company without notice or cause of 100% ofannual salary at the date of termination, the annual cost of pension andall other benets and 50% of potential annual incentive.
74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Recruitment Market assessments against the three groups take account of key factors which Towers Watsons The committee determines the remuneration package research shows differentiate remuneration for for any new appointment to the Pearson Management jobs of a similar nature, such as financial size, Committee, either from within or outside of Pearson.
board membership, reporting relationships and Remuneration includes base salary, annual and international activities.
long-term incentive entitlements and awards, and pension arrangements.
For benchmarking purposes and for the performance scenarios below, the main elements of remuneration The committee carefully considers factors such as are valued as follows: the relative size and contribution of the role, the individuals skills and experience, the availability of skills Element of remuneration Valuation and experience in the market, the individuals current Base salary Actual base salary remuneration package, the market rate for the job and Allowances, Cost to company of providing internal comparisons within Pearson before retirement and allowances, retirement and determining an appropriate remuneration package for other benefits other benefits a new appointment.
Occasionally this requires a degree Annual incentive Target level of annual incentive of flexibility so that the remuneration policy boundaries Long-term Expected value of long-term are wider than under usual circumstances but at all incentive incentive award times the committee seeks to minimise internal disparities and to avoid pay for poor performance.
Bonus share Expected value of matching award For someone joining from outside of Pearson, the offer matching based on target level of annual may include compensation for the forfeiture of awards incentive and assuming maximum from a previous employer on a comparable basis, amount 50% of annual incentive taking account of performance achieved or likely to be is invested achieved, the proportion of performance period Total remuneration Sum of all elements of remaining and the form of the award.
remuneration Benchmarking Expected value means Towers Watsons assessment of the awards net present value taking into account For benchmarking purposes, we review remuneration the vesting schedule and the probability that any by reference to three separate comparator groups.
performance targets will be met.
First, we use a select peer group of FTSE 100 companies with very substantial overseas operations, excluding financial services.
These companies are of a range of sizes relative to Pearson, but the method our independent advisers, Towers Watson, use to make comparisons on remuneration takes this variation in size into account.
Secondly, we look at a broad media industry group of US companies.
And thirdly, we look at the FTSE 20-50, excluding financial services.
We use these companies because they represent the wider executive talent pool from which we might expect to recruit externally and the pay market to which we might be vulnerable if our remuneration was not competitive.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 75 Pay and performance The relative importance of fixed and performancerelated remuneration for the chief executive and other Consistent with its policy, the committee places executive directors is typically as follows: considerable emphasis on the performance-linked elements i. e. annual incentives, bonus share matching Chief executive and long-term incentives.
13% 1% 23% 63% Maximum The committee considers what each director can 22% 2% 21% 55% expect to receive under different performance Target scenarios, based on the following definitions 92%8% Fixed of performance: Performance scenario Elements of remuneration Other executive directors Maximum Base salary, allowances, benefits, 15% 4% 25% 56% retirement benefits, maximum annual Maximum incentive, maximum bonus share 24% 7% 21% 48% Target matching and maximum long-term incentive 78% 22% Fixed Target Base salary, allowances, benefits, Base salary, allowances Annual incentive retirement benefits, target annual and benefits Long-term incentives Retirement benefits incentive, target bonus share matching and target long-term incentive We will continue to review the mix of fixed and Fixed Base salary, allowances, benefits and performance-linked remuneration on an annual basis, retirement benefits only consistent with our overall philosophy.
76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Chairmans remuneration Year-on-year 2012 2011 change The committees policy is that the chairmans pay m m % should be set at a level that is competitive with those Operating profit 936 942 6 1% of chairmen in similar positions in comparable Dividends 346 318 28 9% companies.
He is not entitled to any annual or longterm incentive, retirement or other benefits.
Wages and salaries 1,659 1,531 128 8% Directors salaries fees, 6 8 2 25% Following the committees last review in 2010, the annual incentives, chairmans remuneration was increased to its current allowances and benefits level with effect from 1 April 2011.
The next review will take place in 2014.
Note 1 Wages and salaries include continuing operations only and exclude Penguin.
2011 is restated on the same basis.
Non-executive directors Employee numbers for continuing operations for 2012 were 42,980 2011: 37,964.
Further details are set out in note 5 Fees are determined by the full board having regard to the financial statements on page 115. to market practice and within the restrictions Note 2 Directors salaries fees, annual incentives, allowances contained in the companys Articles of Association.
and benefits exclude retirement benefits and long-term Non-executive directors receive no other pay or incentives consistent with wages and salaries.
benefits other than reimbursement for expenses Employee engagement incurred in connection with their directorship of the company and do not participate in the companys In accordance with the committees charter and terms equity-based incentive plans.
of reference, the committees remit does not include remuneration matters below that of the chief With effect from 1 July 2010, the structure and fees executive, the other executive directors and other are as follows: members of the Pearson Management Committee.
Fees payable However, before the remuneration packages for the from 1 July 2010 Pearson Management Committee are set for the year ahead, the committee considers a report from the Non-executive director 65,000 chief executive and director for people on general pay Chairmanship of audit committee 25,000 trends in the market and the level of pay increases Chairmanship of remuneration committee 20,000 across the company as a whole.
This helps to ensure Membership of audit committee 10,000 that executive remuneration packages are reviewed in Membership of remuneration committee 5,000 the context of the wider organisation.
Senior independent director 20,000 The company consults with various employee representative bodies including trade unions and A minimum of 25% of the basic fee is paid in Pearson works councils in some jurisdictions about the shares that the non-executive directors have companys strategy, competitiveness and performance committed to retain for the period of their of the business and other matters affecting employees.
The company also conducts an employee engagement Non-executive directors serve Pearson under letters survey to find out how people feel about working for of appointment and do not have service contracts.
Pearson, what they think about the work they do, the There is no entitlement to compensation on the opportunities they have and the rewards they get termination of their directorships.
including a section on pay and benefits.
The company uses all of this feedback to inform decisions on peopleRelative importance of pay spend related activities, resources and investment, local We show below the year-on-year change in the management action plans and wider business unit and relative importance of pay spend compared to the organisational strategies.
return to shareholders dividends and reinvestment It is the companys intention to continue to engage in the company adjusted operating profit for with employees and employee representatives in this continuing operations.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 77 Shareholder engagement The company consults regularly with shareholders on all matters affecting its strategy and business operations.
As part of that process, we also engage with shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration.
In 2012, the committee amended the service contracts for all executive directors continuing to serve throughout 2013.
The consequence of this review has been to remove any entitlement to annual incentive from the calculation of any compensation that might be payable on termination of employment by the company without notice or cause, in line with the prevailing view of best practice amongst shareholders and their representatives.
The committee continues to be aware of and respond to best practice guidelines of shareholders and their representative bodies.
Misstatement or misconduct In 2011, the committee reviewed the companys powers to adjust and reclaim variable remuneration in exceptional circumstances of misstatement or misconduct.
The committee already has long-standing discretionary powers to make downward adjustments under the annual and long-term incentive plans, as described in the remuneration policy table on pages 70 and 71.
The company will follow its legal rights and reclaim rewards gained in the event of proven wrong doing which led to misstatement of the companys accounts.
78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Implementation report The committees duties are also: to review and approve corporate goals and objectives relevant to executive compensation and to evaluate The remuneration committee and its activities performance in light of those goals and objectives David Arculus chaired the remuneration committee to approve the companys long-term incentive and for the year 2012: the other members were Patrick other share plans Cescau who stood down from the committee at the to advise and decide on general and specific AGM, Vivienne Cox who joined the committee arrangements in connection with the termination during the year, Ken Hydon and Glen Moreno.
of employment of executive directors and other David Arculus, Patrick Cescau, Vivienne Cox and members of the Pearson Management Committee Ken Hydon are independent non-executive directors.
to have delegated responsibility for determining the Glen Moreno, chairman of the board, is a member of remuneration and benefits package of the chairman the committee as permitted under the UK Corporate of the board Governance Code.
to ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure Marjorie Scardino, chief executive, Robin Freestone, of information are fulfilled chief financial officer, Robin Baliszewski, director for to appoint and set the terms of reference for any people, Robert Head, director for executive reward, remuneration consultants who advise the committee and Stephen Jones, head of company secretarial and and monitor the cost of such advice deputy secretary, provided material assistance to the committee during the year.
They attended meetings of The committees full charter and terms of reference the committee, although none of them was involved in are available on the companys website.
any decisions relating to his or her own remuneration.
Annually, the committee reviews its own performance, To ensure that it receives independent advice, the constitution and charter and terms of reference to committee has appointed Towers Watson to supply ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and survey data and to advise on market trends, long-term recommend any changes it considers necessary to the incentives and other general remuneration matters.
Towers Watson also advised the company on health The committee participated in a survey to review its and welfare benefits in the US and provided consulting performance and effectiveness in July 2012, looking at advice directly to certain Pearson operating companies.
areas such as the clarity of roles and responsibilities, Towers Watson are members of the Remuneration the composition of the committee, the use of time, Consultants Group, the body which oversees the code the quality and timeliness of meeting materials, the of conduct in relation to executive remuneration opportunity for discussion and debate, dialogue with consulting in the UK.
management and access to independent advice.
The committees principal duty is to determine and The committee concluded that it is operating regularly review, having regard to the UK Corporate effectively and noted the challenges for the year ahead.
Governance Code and on the advice of the chief executive, the remuneration policy and the remuneration and benefits packages of the executive directors and other members of the Pearson Management Committee comprising CEOs of principal operating businesses and senior heads of strategic corporate functions.
This includes base salary, annual and long-term incentives, retirement and any other benefits.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 79 The committee met six times during 2012.
The 3 OCTOBER 2012 matters discussed and actions taken were as follows: Noted the activity of the Standing Committee of the 20 AND 24 FEBRUARY 2012 board in relation to the operation of the companys equity-based reward programmes Reviewed and approved 2011 annual incentive Noted the appointment of John Fallon to the board plan payouts and reviewed his remuneration package Reviewed and approved 2009 long-term incentive Approved 2012 long-term incentive awards for plan payouts and release of shares executives and managers Approved vesting of 2007 and 2009 annual bonus Reviewed committees performance and effectiveness share matching awards and release of shares Reviewed remuneration policy and practice and the Reviewed base salaries for the Pearson Management implications of the new reporting regulations Committee and endorsed the recommendation of the executive directors and other members of the Pearson 5 DECEMBER 2012 Management Committee that they receive no increase Discussed Towers Watsons overview of the current in base salaries for 2012 remuneration environment Reviewed and approved 2012 Pearson and operating Considered Towers Watsons report on remuneration company annual incentive plan targets for the Pearson Management Committee for 2013 Reviewed and approved 2012 individual annual Reviewed status of outstanding long-term incentive incentive opportunities for the Pearson Management awards Committee Considered 2013 annual incentive plan metrics Reviewed and approved 2012 long-term incentive Considered the approach to 2013 long-term incentive awards and associated performance conditions for plan awards for the Pearson Management Committee the Pearson Management Committee Noted the recommended format for the 2012 report Reviewed and approved 2011 report on directors on directors remuneration taking account of the remuneration proposed reporting regulations Noted companys use of equity for employee Reviewed and approved the service agreement share plans for John Fallons appointment as chief executive Reviewed and approved the remuneration package Reviewed and approved the leaving arrangements for the chief executive for Marjorie Scardino, Rona Fairhead and one other 27 APRIL 2012 member of the Pearson Management Committee Reviewed and approved 2012 long-term incentive awards for the Pearson Management Committee Noted the companys response to the UK pension tax relief changes for high earners 26 JULY 2012 Noted the activity of the Standing Committee of the Board in relation to the operation of the companys equity-based reward programmes Ratified the 2012 annual incentive plans for Pearson plc and the operating companies Discussed Towers Watson's overview of the current remuneration environment Reviewed committees charter and terms of reference 80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Total remuneration Total remuneration for the directors in 2012 was as follows: 2012 2011 LongTotal LongTotal Salaries Annual Retirement term single Retirement term single All figures in 000s fees incentive Allowances Benefits Sub-total benefits incentives figure Sub-total benefits incentives figure Chairman Glen Moreno 500 500 500 488 488 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 993 432 60 65 1,550 712 4,088 6,350 2,455 706 5,719 8,880 Will Ethridge 658 293 951 302 1,532 2,785 1,390 575 3,196 5,161 Rona Fairhead 529 192 25 746 267 1,109 2,122 999 182 1,574 2,755 John Fallon 146 63 4 213 64 317 594 appointed 3 October 2012 Robin Freestone 500 252 15 767 151 1,461 2,379 1,094 150 2,087 3,331 John Makinson 549 238 211 16 1,014 1,081 2,095 1,417 346 1,571 3,334 Non-executive directors David Arculus 95 95 95 95 95 Patrick Cescau 90 90 90 100 100 Vivienne Cox 80 80 80 appointed 1 January 2012 Susan Fuhrman 75 75 75 75 75 Ken Hydon 95 95 95 95 95 Josh Lewis 75 75 75 63 63 Total 4,385 1,470 271 125 6,251 1,496 9,588 17,335 8,271 1,959 14,147 24,377 Total 2011 4,139 3,752 316 64 8,271 Note 1 For the full year, John Fallons remuneration reflected nine months in his role as CEO, Pearson International and three months as Pearson CEO designate and was: salary fees 506: annual incentive 259: benefits 16: sub-total 781: retirement benefits 262: long-term incentives 1,306: total 2,349 all figures in 000s.
Note 2 In anticipation of the proposed reporting regulations, we show a single figure of total remuneration, which includes retirement benefits and long-term incentives in addition to the other elements of remuneration that have been shown in previous reports.
Consistent with the methodology proposed by the Financial Reporting Council at the time of writing, retirement benefits include the increase in the value of the pension fund during the year, comprising company contributions to the plan during the year for defined contribution plans and the increase in the pension fund offset for inflation and multiplied by 20 for defined benefit plans, as well as other pension-related costs see the retirement benefits table on page 83 for further detail.
Long-term incentives include all awards under the long-term incentive plan, bonus share matching plan or all-employee share plan that vested during the year or that have not yet vested but where performance is known at year-end as well as dividend shares accruing and released on such shares in the year see the tables on movements in restricted shares and share options on pages 86 to 89 for further detail.
Note 3 The company provided gifts to Patrick Cescau and Marjorie Scardino after they stepped down from the board.
In the case of Patrick Cescau, the value of the gifts was 21,700.
Marjorie Scardino received a painting originally purchased by the company for 12,000, which has an estimated value of approximately 50,000 100,000.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 81 Salaries fees Salaries fees paid by the company are reported in the table on total remuneration of the directors.
Fees paid by other companies to the executive directors for their non-executive directorships elsewhere are reported separately on page 92.
Fees paid to non-executive directors in 2012 were comprised as follows: All figures in 000s Basic fee Committee chairmanship Committee membership Senior independent directorship Total David Arculus 65 20 10 95 Patrick Cescau 65 5 20 90 Vivienne Cox 65 15 80 Susan Fuhrman 65 10 75 Ken Hydon 65 25 5 95 Josh Lewis 65 10 75 Annual incentive For 2012, annual incentive opportunities were based on the following performance measures and performance against these measures designated as: below threshold, between threshold and target, between target and maximum and above maximum was as follows: Performance in 2012 Weighting of performance measures % of maximum opportunity Pearson plc Operating company companies Payout Underlying Average Average in 2012 Operating growth in working working adjusted capital to capital to % of Pearson company Personal Operating Operating Operating Name salary plc companies objectives EPS Sales sales ratio cash flow Sales profit sales ratio cash flow Marjorie 90% 10% 43.5% Scardino Will Ethridge 30% 60% 10% 44.5% Pearson North America Rona Fairhead 30% 50% 10% 36.4% Professional Assessment & Training 10% FT Publishing John Fallon 30% 60% 10% 51.1% Pearson International Robin Freestone 80% 20% 50.4% 50% 10% John Makinson 30% 43.4% Penguin Group 10% India Allowances Allowances for Marjorie Scardino include 49,570 in respect of housing costs and a US payroll supplement of 9,985.
John Makinson is entitled to a location and market premium in relation to the management of the business of the Penguin Group in the US and received 210,937 for 2012.
Benefits Benefits include company car, car allowance and UK healthcare premiums.
US health benefits for Marjorie Scardino and Will Ethridge are self-insured and the cost is tax free to employees.
For Marjorie Scardino, benefits include 48,600 for pension planning and financial advice.
Marjorie Scardino, Rona Fairhead and John Makinson have the use of a chauffeur.
82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Retirement benefits Description of the directors pension entitlements are as follows: Director Retirement benefits Marjorie Member of the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan under which her benefit accruals ceased at the end of 2001 Scardino and the approved 401 k plan.
Until 2010, additional benefits were provided through an unfunded unapproved defined contribution plan.
Since 2010, additional pension benefits are provided through a taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in place of the unfunded plan, a funded defined contribution plan approved by HM Revenue and Customs as a corresponding plan, and amounts in the legacy unfunded plan.
In aggregate, the cash supplement and contributions to the funded plan are based on a percentage of salary and a fixed cash amount index-linked to inflation.
The notional cash balance of the legacy unfunded plan increases annually by a specified notional interest rate.
The unfunded plan also provides the opportunity to convert a proportion of this notional cash account into a notional share account reflecting the value of a number of Pearson ordinary shares.
The number of shares in the notional share account is determined by reference to the market value of Pearson shares at the date of conversion.
Will Member of the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan under which he continues to accrue benefits under the Ethridge alternative formula because he satisfied criteria of age and service and the approved 401 k plan.
He also participates in an unfunded, non-qualified Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP that provides an annual accrual of 2% of final average earnings, less benefits accrued in the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan and US Social Security.
Additional defined contribution benefits are provided through a funded, non-qualified Excess Plan.
Rona Member of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
Her pension accrual rate is 1 30th of pensionable salary Fairhead per annum, restricted to the plan earnings cap.
Until April 2006, the company also contributed to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme FURBS on her behalf.
Since April 2006, she has received a taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in replacement of the FURBS.
John Fallon Member of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
His pension accrual rate is 1 30th of pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the plan earnings cap.
Until April 2006, the company also contributed to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme FURBS on his behalf.
Since April 2006, he has received a taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in replacement of the FURBS.
Robin Member of the Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
Company Freestone contributions are 16% of pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the plan earnings cap.
John Member of the Pearson Group Pension Plan under which his pensionable salary is restricted to the plan Makinson earnings cap.
The company ceased contributions on 31 December 2001 to his FURBS arrangement and the benefits were withdrawn in 2012, reducing the benefits payable under the UURBS.
During 2002 it set up an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme UURBS for him.
The UURBS tops up the pension payable from the Pearson Group Pension Plan and the closed FURBS to target a pension of two-thirds of a revalued base salary on retirement at age 62.
The revalued base salary is defined as 450,000 effective at 1 June 2002, increased at 1 January each year by reference to the increase in the UK Governments Index of Retail Prices All Items.
In the event of his death a pension from the Pearson Group Pension Plan and the UURBS will be paid to his spouse or nominated financial dependant.
Early retirement is currently possible from age 55, with company consent.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 83 Details of the directors pension entitlements and pension-related benefits during the year are as follows: Other Increase Increase Transfer pension decrease Increase decrease value of the costs Other in accrued decrease in accrued increase in to the Other pension Value in Accrued pension Transfer Transfer in transfer pension accrued company allowances in related 2012 pension at over the value at value at value over over the pension at over the lieu of benefit single Directors Age at 31 Dec 12 period 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 the period period 31 Dec 12 period pension costs figure 12 3 4 5 6 5 6 7 8 9 10 pensions 31 Dec 12 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Marjorie Scardino 65 3.7 1.0 49.5 48.8 0.7 1.1 10.5 665.1 58.3 712 Will Ethridge 60 212.0 17.6 2,039.3 2,502.0 462.7 13.4 157.8 32.7 1.7 302 Rona Fairhead 51 48.6 6.4 579.3 700.8 115.0 5.4 72.0 133.9 25.3 267 John Fallon 50 65.5 7.1 815.7 965.9 143.7 5.9 80.0 131.4 13.0 64 Robin Freestone 54 20.7 123.3 6.7 151 John Makinson 58 221.2 86.8 5,906.5 4,420.9 1,492.0 93.6 17.7 Note 1 The accrued pension at 31 December 2012 is the deferred pension to which the member would be entitled on ceasing pensionable service on 31 December 2012.
For Marjorie Scardino this is the approximate pension payable in respect of her frozen benefit in the US plan.
For Will Ethridge this is his pension from the US plan and the US SERP.
For Rona Fairhead and John Fallon it relates to the pension payable from the UK plan.
For John Makinson it relates to the pension from the UK Plan and his unapproved arrangements in aggregate.
Robin Freestone does not accrue defined benefits.
Note 2 This is the change in accrued pension over the year compared with the accrued pension at the end of the previous year.
Note 3 This is the transfer value quoted at the end of the previous year.
Note 4 The UK transfer values at 31 December 2012 are calculated using the assumptions for cash equivalents payable from the UK plan and are based on the accrued pension at that date.
There were no changes in the transfer value methodology over the year although the discount rates are updated each month to reflect changes in market conditions.
For the US SERP, transfer values are calculated using a discount rate equivalent to current US long-term bond yields.
The US plan is a lump sum plan and the accrued balance is included where applicable.
Note 6 Net of UK inflation where inflation is the increase in CPI to the previous September, subject to a minimum of 0% pa and a maximum of 5% pa.
In the case of John Makinson, the accrued pension over the period has decreased because of a transfer made as a result of a pension sharing order.
Note 7 This column comprises contributions to defined contribution arrangements for UK benefits.
For US benefits, it includes company contributions to funded defined contribution plans and notional contributions to unfunded defined contribution plans.
Note 8 This column represents the cash allowances paid in lieu of the previous unfunded defined contribution plan for Marjorie Scardino and of the previous FURBS arrangements for Rona Fairhead, John Fallon and Robin Freestone.
John Makinsons deferred FURBS entitlement is referred to in note 1 above.
Note 9 This column comprises life cover and long-term disability insurance not covered by the retirement plans.
Note 10 The single figure of total remuneration includes the following elements from the table on retirement benefits: the increase in accrued pension over the period offset for inflation and multiplied by 20 defined benefit plans, other pension costs to the company over the period the companys contributions to defined contribution plans, other allowances in lieu of pension cash allowances paid in lieu of previous plans for Marjorie Scardino, Rona Fairhead, John Fallon and Robin Freestone and other pension-related benefit costs additional life cover and long-term disability insurance not covered by the retirement plans.
In the case of John Fallon, the value included in the single figure of total remuneration is pro-rated to reflect his appointment to the board from 3 October 2012.
In the case of John Makinson, the value for the single figure of total remuneration is nil because the decrease in accrued pension over the period offsets the other pension-related benefit costs.
84 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Long-term incentives Details of awards made, outstanding, held or released under the annual bonus share matching plan are as follows: Date of award Share price on date of award Vesting Status of award 15 May 2012 1,152.0p 15 May 2015 Outstanding subject to 2011 to 2014 performance 20 April 2011 1,129.0p 20 April 2014 Outstanding subject to 2010 to 2013 performance 21 April 2010 1,024.1p 21 April 2013 Performance condition for release of 84.5% of matching award met.
Real compound annual growth in earnings per share for 2009 to 2012 of 4.4% against a range of 3% to 5%.
Shares held pending release on 21 April 2013.
16 April 2009 670.0p 16 April 2012 Target met as reported in report on directors remuneration for 2011.
Shares released on 15 May 2012 1 22 May 2007 899.9p 100% on Target met as reported in report on directors 22 May 2012 remuneration for 2011.
Shares released on 22 May 2012 Note 1 For awards made prior to 2008, the annual bonus share matching plan operated on the basis of a 50% match after three years and 100% match after five years, subject to the earnings per share growth targets being met over the relevant performance periods.
Note 2 For all awards, Pearsons reported financial results for the relevant period were used to measure performance and no discretion was exercised.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 85 Details of awards made, outstanding, vested and held or released under the long-term incentive plan are as follows: Performance Share measures price on award split % of Date date Vesting equally across Performance Payout at Actual award Status of of award of award date three measures period threshold Payout at maximum performance vested award 02 05 12 1,161.0p 02 05 15 Relative TSR 2012 to 30% at median 100% at upper Outstanding 2015 quartile ROIC 2014 0% for ROIC 100% for ROIC of 8.5% of 10.5% EPS growth 2014 30% for EPS 100% for EPS compared growth of growth of 12.0% to 2011 6.0% 03 05 11 1,149.0p 03 05 14 Relative TSR 2011 to 30% at median 100% at upper Outstanding 2014 quartile ROIC 2013 25% for ROIC 100% for ROIC of 9.0% of 10.5% EPS growth 2013 30% for EPS 100% for EPS compared growth of growth of 12.0% to 2010 6.0% 03 03 10 962.0p 03 03 13 Relative TSR 2010 to 30% at median 100% at upper Outstanding 2013 quartile Marked as } in the movements in restricted shares table ROIC 2012 25% for ROIC 100% for ROIC 9.1% 47.5% Vested and remain held of 8.5% of 10.5% pending release.
Marked as z in the movements EPS growth 2012 30% for EPS 100% for EPS 8.8% 62.5% in restricted shares table compared growth of growth of 12.0% to 2009 6.0% 03 03 09 654.0p 03 03 12 Relative TSR 2009 to 30% at median 100% at upper 60th 57.4% 68.3% of shares vested.
2012 quartile percentile Three-quarters released on 3 April 2012.
If after ROIC 2011 25% for ROIC 100% for ROIC 9.1% 47.5% tax number of shares of 8.5% of 10.5% are retained for a further EPS growth 2011 30% for EPS 100% for EPS 14.4% 100% two years, the remaining compared growth of growth of 12.0% quarter will be released to 2008 6.0% on 3 March 2014.
The part based on relative TSR is marked as } and the part based on ROIC and EPS growth as z in the movements in restricted shares table Note 1 For all awards, Pearsons reported financial results for the relevant period were used to measure performance and no discretion was exercised.
86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Movements in directors interests in restricted shares designated as: ABSMP annual bonus share matching plan: LTIP long-term incentive plan: Dividends where dividend-equivalent shares were added to the released shares: z for the two-thirds of the award based on ROIC and EPS growth and } for the one third of the award based on relative TSR: we show these parts of the award separately where performance is known for only part of the award at year-end.
Note 2 No variations to terms and conditions of plan interests were made during the year.
Note 3 Performance conditions and vesting for awards under the bonus share matching and long-term incentive plans are described in the long-term incentive tables on pages 84 and 85.
Note 4 Marjorie Scardino left the company on 31 December 2012.
In the case of the bonus share matching award made on 21 April 2010 and the long-term incentive awards made on 4 March 2008 and 3 March 2009, the performance period has ended and the number of shares held at 31 December 2012 will be released to Marjorie in 2013.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 89 In the case of the bonus share matching award on 20 April 2011 and the long-term incentive awards made on 3 March 2010, 3 May 2011 and 2 May 2012, outstanding awards have been pro-rated according to the number of months worked in the performance period to the date of leaving and we show the remaining shares as lapsed.
The shares held at 31 December 2012 remain outstanding subject to performance and will be released in line with the normal vesting schedule.
Note 5 In the case of the long-term incentive awards made on 3 March 2009 and 3 March 2010, we detail separately the parts based on ROIC and EPS growth two-thirds of the total award and the part based on relative TSR one-third of the total award, because of the time lag in the corresponding performance periods.
We disclosed the lapsed part of the 2009 award based on ROIC and EPS growth in the 2011 report as performance was known at year-end but the vesting of the part based on relative TSR is disclosed together with the release of shares in the 2012 report as above.
Similarly, for the 2010 award, we disclose the lapse of the parts based on ROIC and EPS growth but the vesting of the part based on relative TSR and the release of shares will be disclosed in the 2013 report.
Note 6 The below notes have been prepared in anticipation of the proposing reporting regulations.
All awards released during the year are included in the single figure of total remuneration for that year, unless they were subject t condition was known in an earlier to a performance condition other than a stay-in-employment and performance against tha reporting period.
Awards that have not yet vested but where performance is known at year-end are also included in the single figure of total remuneration.
In the case of the long-term incentive award made on 3 March 2009, only the part based on relative TSR is included in the 2012 single figure of total remuneration under the proposed single figure methodology, the part based on ROIC and EPS growth would have been included in the 2011 single figure of total remuneration and disclosed in the 2011 report.
In the case of the long-term incentive award made on 3 March 2010, only the parts based on ROIC and EPS growth are included in the 2012 single figure of total remuneration the part based on relative TSR will be included in the 2013 single figure of total remuneration and disclosed in the 2013 report.
The value of shares included in the single figure of total remuneration is the number of shares multiplied by the share price on release or, if the shares have not yet been released, the average share price over the final quarter of the year which for 2012 was 1,210.4p.
Note 2 The acquisition of shares under the worldwide save for shares plan is not subject to a performance condition.
90 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Note 3 Marjorie Scardino contributed US$1,000 per month the maximum allowed to the US employee stock purchase plan.
The terms of this plan allow participants to make monthly contributions for six month periods and to acquire shares twice annually at the end of these periods at a price that is the lower of the market price at the beginning or the end of each period, both less 15%.
Note 4 The market price on 31 December 2012 was 1,188.0p per share and the range during the year was 1,111.0p to 1,294.0p.
Note 5 All share options that became exercisable during the year are included in the single figure of total remuneration for that year.
The value included in the single figure of total remuneration is the number of options multiplied by the difference between the market value on the earliest exercise date 1,230.0p on 1 August 2012 and the option price.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office during 2012.
As announced on 3 October 2012, Marjorie Scardino stepped down from the board and left the company on 31 December 2012.
She served the company under her service agreement dated 27 February 2004, the details of which are described in the policy table on page 73.
There was no payment for loss of office.
As announced on 27 November 2012, Rona Fairhead is stepping down from the board at the annual general meeting on 26 April 2013 and leaving the company on 30 April 2013.
Her service agreement dated 24 January 2003 provides for notice periods of six months from the director and 12 months from the company and compensation on termination of employment by the company without notice or cause of 100% of annual salary at the date of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive.
The committee and the board determined that her leaving employment was a consequence of the planned incorporation of the professional education division overseen by Rona into other parts of Pearson's education business, coupled with the smaller size of the Financial Times Group owing to recent major divestments.
The company therefore intends to pay compensation amounting to approximately 1.146m comprising the elements described above to Rona in 2013.
Interests of directors and value of shareholdings Total number of Ordinary shares ordinary and at 1 Jan 12 or date of Ordinary shares Conditional shares conditional shares Value Guideline Guideline appointment, if later at 31 Dec 12 at 31 Dec 12 at 31 Dec 12 x salary x salary met Chairman Glen Moreno 150,000 150,000 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 1,346,618 1,550,745 374,690 1,925,435 23.6 2.00 9 Will Ethridge 405,295 505,635 128,116 633,751 11.7 1.25 9 Rona Fairhead 425,023 440,522 101,926 542,448 12.5 1.25 9 John Fallon appointed 3 218,546 218,546 116,262 334,808 6.8 1.25 9 October 2012 Robin Freestone 308,731 408,814 128,213 537,027 13.1 1.25 9 John Makinson 438,667 510,213 101,926 612,139 13.6 1.25 9 Non-executive directors David Arculus 14,798 15,560 Patrick Cescau 7,117 7,886 Vivienne Cox 0 670 Susan Fuhrman 12,927 14,476 Ken Hydon 14,028 17,111 Josh Lewis 3,891 4,886 OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 91 Note 1 Conditional shares means shares which have vested but remain held subject to continuing employment for a pre-defined holding period.
Note 2 The current value of the executive directors holdings of ordinary and conditional shares is based on the middle market value of Pearson shares of 1,216.0p on 22 February 2013 which is the latest practicable date before the results announcement against base salaries in 2012.
All executive directors comfortably exceeded the shareholding guidelines.
The shareholding guidelines do not apply to the chairman and non-executive directors.
Note 3 Ordinary shares include both ordinary shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and American Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The figures include both shares and ADRs acquired by individuals investing part of their own after-tax annual bonus in Pearson shares under the annual bonus share matching plan.
Note 4 From 2004, Marjorie Scardino is also deemed to be interested in a further number of shares under her unfunded pension arrangement described in this report, which provides the opportunity to convert a proportion of her notional cash account into a notional share account reflecting the value of a number of Pearson shares.
Note 5 The register of directors interests which is open to inspection during normal office hours contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
The market price on 31 December 2012 was 1,188.0p per share and the range during the year was 1,111.0p to 1,294.0p.
Note 6 At 31 December 2012, Patrick Cescau held 168,000 Pearson Note 7 There were no movements in ordinary shares between 1 January 2012 and a month prior to the sign-off of this report.
Note 8 Ordinary shares do not include any shares vested but held pending release under a restricted share plan.
Marjorie Scardino Will Ethridge Rona Fairhead John Fallon Robin Freestone John Makinson 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 2,000 Number of shares 000 Shareholding guideline Ordinary shares Conditional shares Dilution and use of equity At 31 December 2012, stock awards to be satisfied by new-issue equity granted in the last ten years under We can use existing shares bought in the market, all Pearson share plans amounted to 1.7% of the treasury shares or newly-issued shares to satisfy companys issued share capital.
No stock awards awards under the companys various stock plans.
granted in the last ten years under executive or For restricted stock awards under the long-term discretionary share plans will be satisfied incentive plan and matching share awards under the by new-issue equity.
annual bonus share matching plan, we would normally In addition, for existing shares no more than 5% expect to use existing shares.
of Pearson equity may be held in trust at any time.
There are limits on the amount of new-issue equity we Against this limit, shares held in trust at 31 December can use.
In any rolling ten-year period, no more than 2012 amounted to 1.2% of the companys issued 10% of Pearson equity will be issued, or be capable share capital.
of being issued, under all Pearsons share plans, and The headroom available for all Pearson plans, no more than 5% of Pearson equity will be issued, executive or discretionary plans and shares held or be capable of being issued, under executive or in trust is as follows: discretionary plans.
Headroom 2012 2011 2010 All Pearson plans 8.3% 8.3% 7.6% Executive or discretionary plans 5.0% 5.0% 4.1% Shares held in trust 3.8% 3.2% 3.3% 92 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Report on directors remuneration continued Total shareholder return: 5 years to 31 Dec 2012 Executive directors non-executive directorships 200 The committees policy is that executive directors may, by agreement with the board, serve as non-executives 175 of other companies and retain any fees payable for their services.
150 The following executive directors served as nonexecutive directors elsewhere and received fees or 125 other benefits for the period covered by this report as follows: 100 Company Fees benefits 75 Marjorie Nokia Corporation 150,000 Scardino 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 MacArthur Foundation $31,750 Pearson FTSE All-Share Rona Fairhead HSBC Holdings plc 200,000 Approved by the board and signed on its behalf by Other executive directors served as non-executive directors elsewhere but did not receive fees.
Shareholder engagement David Arculus Director The voting results for prior reports on directors remuneration over the previous five years are 7 March 2013 presented below: Year Date of AGM Votes for Votes against 2011 27 April 2012 89.20% 4.99% 2010 28 April 2011 94.07% 3.40% 2009 30 April 2010 92.37% 4.97% 2008 1 May 2009 66.32% 23.36% 2007 25 April 2008 75.31% 10.42% This table expresses as a percentage the votes cast, ignoring any formal instructions to withhold.
Total shareholder return performance In compliance with current regulations, we set out below Pearsons total shareholder return performance relative to the FTSE All-Share index on an annual basis over the five-year period 2007 to 2012.
