OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 109 1.
Accounting policies continued t. Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and q.
Revenue recognition continued stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Income from recharges of freight and other activities less costs to sell if it is intended to recover their which are incidental to the normal revenue generating carrying amount principally through a sale transaction activities is included in other income.
rather than through continuing use.
No depreciation r. Leases is charged in respect of non-current assets classified Leases of property, plant and equipment where the as held for sale.
Amounts relating to non-current Group has substantially all the risks and rewards assets and liabilities held for sale are classified as of ownership are classified as finance leases.
discontinued operations in the income statement Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement where appropriate.
of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased u.
Trade receivables property and the present value of the minimum lease Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated future sales liability and finance charges to achieve a constant rate returns see also note 1q.
on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included 2.
Segment information in financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element The Group is organised into the following business of the finance cost is charged to the income statement segments: over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability Continuing operations: for each period.
The property, plant and equipment North American Education Educational publishing, acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the assessment and testing for the school and higher shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
education market within the USA and Canada: Leases where a significant portion of the risks and International Education Educational publishing, rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are assessment and testing for the school and higher classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Payments education market outside of North America: made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income Professional Business and technology publishing, statement on a straight-line basis over the period of training, testing and certification for professional the lease.
bodies: s. Dividends FT Group Publisher of the Financial Times, business Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial magazines and specialist information: statements in the period in which they are approved Discontinued operations: by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved Penguin Consumer publisher with brand imprints such and paid.
as Penguin, Putnam, Berkley, Viking and Dorling Kindersley.
