38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our impact on society continued BTEC, the vocational qualication recognised by CASE STUDY schools, colleges, universities, employers and Pearson Affordable Learning Fund professional bodies across the United Kingdom and inover 100 countries worldwide.
A global challenge is how we can all ensure that every child can benefit from learning, but with over The Graduate Management Admission Test GMAT, 60 million children not in school, there is a need for the leading test for entrance to business schools and urgent innovation.
We believe that low-cost private management programmes worldwide.
education is part of the answer and that there is NCLEX Nursing examination, required to obtain a aneed to encourage new ideas, models and ways licence necessary to apply for work as a nurse in the ofworking.
So, we have launched the Pearson United States.
Affordable Learning Fund whose purpose is to make minority equity investments in for-profit companies CASE STUDY that help meet a burgeoning demand for affordable Next Generation BTECs education services in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
The fund launched in July 2012 with $15 million of Pearson launched Next Generation BTECs, which initial Pearson capital, and made its first investment meet new regulator and Department for Education ina chain of private schools in Ghana.
See more at: criteria to make BTEC the best represented www.
com vocational qualication on the new accountability framework for schools in England.
Sharing knowledge and investing in research Few companies participate in education on a global scale so we have a responsibility to support educational improvement and to actively share our experience on models that work and those that do not.
We have: Mapped current research activity and laid the foundation to launch our online research portal.
CONTRIBUTING TO COMPETITIVENESS 3 Convened a Pearson Executive Research Council bringing The connection between education and long-term together the research professionals within Pearson.
economic growth is well-documented and increasingly Launched two publications with international acclaim well understood.
The Learning Curve and Oceans of Innovation: www.
com oceans Helping individuals get ready for work We will: Getting a job depends on having relevant skills.
As many countries continue to wrestle with the economic, Invest in research to help advance education as well social and personal cost of unemployment, particularly asinform the products and services we develop.
for the young, it is even more important that we help Partner with a range of organisations to conduct people develop the skills they need for work.
educational research and promote the dissemination Securing a professional or vocational qualification of knowledge.
isanimportant factor in getting a job.
We create andadminister millions of admissions, tests, Promote open discussion through participating certifications, vocational assessments and general inandconvening conferences and events.
qualifications including: Make research outcomes publicly available via: www.
