OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 181 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
information, please go to www.
co. uk dealing Corporate website or call customer services on 0845 300 0430.
The investors section of our corporate website Share dealing facilities www.
com investors provides a wealth of Equiniti offers telephone and internet services information for shareholders.
It is also possible to for dealing in Pearson shares.
For further sign up to receive email alerts for reports and press information, please contact their telephone dealing releases relating to Pearson at helpline on 08456 037 037 weekdays only or, for www.
com investors announcements online dealing, log on to www.
email-alerts You will need your shareholder reference number Shareholder information online as shown on your share certificate.
Shareholder information can be found on our website A weekly postal dealing service is also available www.
Our registrar, Equiniti also provides a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your ShareGift holding and find practical help on transferring shares or Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose updating your details at www.
For value makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to more information, please contact our registrar, donate them to ShareGift, the share donation charity Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West registered charity number 1052686.
Telephone 0871 384 2233 or, for information about ShareGift and the charities it has those shareholders with hearing difficulties, textphone supported may be obtained from their website, number 0871 384 2255. www.
org or by contacting them at Information about the Pearson share price 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
The companys share price can be found on our American Depositary Receipts ADRs website at www.
It also appears in the Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock financial columns of the national press.
Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO.
Each ADR 2012 Dividends represents one ordinary share.
For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts and dividends, Payment date Amount per share please contact The Bank of New York Mellon, Interim 14 September 2012 15 pence PO Box 43006, Providence, RI 02940-3006, Final 3 May 2013 30 pence telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free within the US or 001 201 680 6825 outside the US.
Alternatively, Payment of dividends to mandated accounts you may e-mail shrrelations@bnymellon.
com, or log Should you elect to have your dividends paid through on to www.
Voting rights BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building for registered ADR holders can be exercised through society account, with the tax voucher sent to the The Bank of New York Mellon, and for beneficial shareholders registered address.
Equiniti can be ADR holders and or nominee accounts through contacted for information on 0871 384 2043. your US brokerage institution.
Pearson will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Calls to these numbers are charged at 8p per minute plus The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the network extras.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday companys shares on the London stock market to Friday.
For further information, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
182 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Shareholder information continued Share register fraud: protecting your investment Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide recommendation advice and neither does it appoint third parties to do so.
As required by law, our shareholder register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from Pearson with caution.
For more information, please log on to our website at www.
com investors  managing-your-shares and www.
com shareholderfaqs Tips on protecting your shares Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation Inform our registrar, Equiniti promptly when you change address Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar if you do not receive your dividend cheque or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee 2013 Financial calendar Ex-dividend date 3 April Record date 5 April Last date for dividend reinvestment election 12 April Annual General Meeting 26 April Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for dividend reinvestment 3 May Interim results 26 July Payment date for interim dividend 13 September
