62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued There were 10,101,860 shares so held as at whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital 31 December 2012.
Each trust has an independent or otherwise as the company may from time to time trustee which has full discretion in relation to the by ordinary resolution determine.
A dividend waiver operates Appointment and replacement of directors on the shares held in these trusts.
The Articles contain the following provisions in relation Pearson also operates a nominee shareholding to directors: arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares on behalf of employees.
There were 4,710,567 shares Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors so held as at 31 December 2012.
The trustees holding may be appointed by the company by ordinary these shares seek voting instructions from the relevant resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by employee as beneficial owner, and voting rights are not the board shall hold office only until the next AGM and exercised if no instructions are given.
shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken into account in determining the directors or Transfer of shares the number of directors who are to retire by rotation The board may refuse to register a transfer of a at that meeting.
The board may from time to time certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that appoint one or more directors to hold executive office the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the with the company for such period subject to the company from taking place on an open and proper provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer board may decide and may revoke or terminate any of a certificated share unless i the instrument of appointment so made.
transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the registered office of the company or any other place company, at least one-third of the directors shall retire decided by the board, and is accompanied by the by rotation or, if their number is not a multiple of certificate for the share to which it relates and such three, the number nearest to one-third.
The first other evidence as the board may reasonably require directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish to show the right of the transferor to make the to retire and not offer themselves for re-election.
Any transfer: ii it is in respect of only one class of further directors so to retire shall be those of the other shares: and iii it is in favour of not more than directors subject to retirement by rotation who have four transferees.
been longest in office since they were last re-elected Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out but, as between persons who became or were last using CREST and the board can refuse to register a re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with unless they otherwise agree among themselves the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
In addition, any director who would not otherwise be required to retire shall Variation of rights retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were If at any time the capital of the company is divided into last re-elected.
different classes of shares, the special rights attaching Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the to any class may be varied or revoked either: board has resolved that all directors should offer i with the written consent of the holders of at least themselves for re-election annually, in accordance 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
relevant class: or The company may by ordinary resolution remove any ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at director before the expiration of his her term of office.
a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares In addition, the board may terminate an agreement or of the relevant class.
arrangement with any director for the provision of his her services to the company.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions,
