44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board of directors Pearsons board brings a wide range of experience, skills and backgrounds.
CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Glen Moreno Chairman John Fallon Chief executive Will Ethridge Chief executive, aged 69, appointed 1 October 2005 aged 50, appointed 3 October 2012 Pearson North American Education aged 61, appointed 1 May 2008 Chairman of the nomination committee Member of the nomination committee and member of the remuneration Will has three decades of experience John became Pearsons chief executive on committee ineducation and educational publishing, 1 January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been including a decade and a half at Pearson Glen has more than three decades responsible for the companys education where he formerly headed our Higher of experience in business and finance, businesses outside North America, and Education, International and Professional and is currently deputy chairman of a member of the Pearson management Publishing business.
Prior to joining The Financial Reporting Council Limited committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 Pearson in 1998, Will was a senior in the UK and non-executive director as director of communications and was executive at Prentice Hall and Addisonof Fidelity International Limited.
appointed president of Pearson Inc. a role Wesley, and before that an editor at Previously, Glen was deputy chairman he combined with his communications Little, Brown and Co. where he published and senior independent director at responsibilities, in 2000.
In 2003, he was in the elds of economics and politics.
Lloyds Banking Group plc, senior appointed CEO of Pearsons educational Will is a board member and former independent director of Man Group publishing businesses for Europe, Middle chairman of the Association of American plc and acting chairman of UK Financial East & Africa EMA and gradually took Publishers AAP and board chairman of Investments Limited, the company on a broader international education CourseSmart, a consortium of electronic set up by HM Treasury to manage brief.
Prior to joining Pearson, John was textbook publishers.
thegovernments shareholdings in director of corporate affairs at Powergen British banks.
plc, where he was also a member of the companys executive committee.
Earlier in his career, John held senior public policy and communications roles in UK local government.
