OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 61 Additional information for shareholders The board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to Set out below is other statutory and regulatory elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be information that Pearson is required to disclose credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years Amendment to Articles of Association after it became due for payment will be forfeited and Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the will then belong to the company, unless the directors company the Articles may be made in accordance decide otherwise.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the Act by way of a special resolution.
the sanction of a special resolution passed by the Rights attaching to shares shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and he she can The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined value assets and determine how the division shall be in the Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears carried out as between the shareholders or different on the companys register of members can choose classes of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with whether his her shares are evidenced by share the same sanction, transfer the whole or any part of certificates i. e. in certificated form or held the assets to trustees upon such trusts for the benefit electronically i. e. uncertificated form in CREST of the shareholders.
the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Voting at general meetings Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend any general meeting of the company and, Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the on a show of hands, every shareholder or his her company in relation to any general meeting must be representative who is present at a general meeting has delivered to the company via its registrars, whether one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share in written or electronic form, not less than 48 hours of which they are the registered holder.
A resolution before the time appointed for holding the meeting or put to the vote at a general meeting is decided on adjourned meeting at which the person named a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration in the appointment proposes to vote.
of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is No shareholder is, unless the board decides otherwise, demanded.
A poll can be demanded by the chairman entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders at a general meeting or to exercise any other right or their representatives present in person and having conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice representatives present in person having at least 10% under section 793 of the Act which confers upon of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by any public companies the power to require information shareholders or their representatives present in with respect to interests in their voting shares and person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate he she or any interested person failed to supply the sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum company with the information requested within paid up on all ordinary shares.
At this years AGM 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The board may voting will again be conducted on a poll, consistent also decide, where the relevant shareholding comprises with best practice.
at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued shares Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing of that class, that no dividend is payable in respect of an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend those default shares and that no transfer of any default cannot exceed the amount recommended by the shares shall be registered.
The board can pay interim dividends on any Pearson operates two employee benefit trusts to class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and hold shares, pending employees becoming entitled for the periods they decide.
In all cases the to them under the companys employee share plans.
distributable profits of the company must be sufficient to justify the payment of the relevant dividend.
