102 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries The Group has not early adopted the following new together the Group are international media pronouncements that are not yet effective: businesses covering education, business information and consumer publishing.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on The company is a public limited company incorporated or after 1 January 2013.
The amendments include the and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered elimination of the corridor approach, changes to the office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
calculation of the net interest and service cost The company has its primary listing on the London components and changes to disclosure.
If the 2012 Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New York accounts had been prepared using IAS 19 2011 the Stock Exchange.
service cost would have been 4m higher and the net interest income would have been 15m lower.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the board of directors IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual on 7 March 2013. reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The new standard details the requirements for the 1.
Accounting policies classification and measurement of financial assets The principal accounting policies applied in the and liabilities.
preparation of these consolidated financial statements The IASB issued a package of five new and amended are set out below.
Basis of preparation Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 These consolidated financial statements have been Disclosures of Involvement with Other Entities have prepared in accordance with International Financial been issued.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Revised 2011 has been amended following the Committee interpretations as adopted by the issuance of IFRS 10 and retains the guidance for European Union EU and with those parts of the separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Associates and Joint Ventures Revised 2011 has reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting been amended following the issuance of IFRS 10 and standards applicable to the Group there is no difference IFRS 11.
All three new standards and two amended between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
standards are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, effective for annual modified by the revaluation of financial assets and reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. liabilities including derivative financial instruments The standard defines fair value and provides guidance to fair value through profit or loss.
on its determination, and introduces disclosure requirements on fair value measurements.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective 2012 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial The following amendments and interpretations were Statements Presentation of Items and Other adopted in 2012 and have not had an impact on the Comprehensive Income, effective for annual Group financial statements: reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendments require the grouping of items in Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: other comprehensive income into those that may Disclosures.
be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods, Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
With the exception of IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011, the changes in new pronouncements applicable from 1 January 2013 are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
