34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our impact on society We continue to be recognised in external benchmarks We believe our as a leader in corporate responsibility a testament to the commitment and efforts of our people.
We were commercial goals and for a fourth year ranked gold inthe Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
our social purpose are 2013 will be a year of considerable change as we merge Penguin with Random House and develop mutually reinforcing.
Our commitment to helping people make progress Across many industries, a strong sense of fundamental intheir lives through learning is enduring.
However, purpose is a characteristic shared by many leading against that wider backdrop of change, we will ask businesses.
Pearsonspurpose is to help people make some key questions about our responsibility progress in their lives through learning.
framework this year: This purpose informs and shapes our company strategy What are the big unmet educational needs which and is the starting point of our responsibility framework: wecan help tackle?
PEARSONS PURPOSE How should we measure and report the educational Our purpose is to help people make progress in impact of our products and services?
Are the three key issues still the right ones for us tofocus on?
OUR FOCUS In 2010, we dened three key issues as the focus What commitments and targets should we set ofPearsons corporate responsibility strategy: ourselves?
literacy, learning outcomes and contributing to If you have thoughts on these four questions or would competitiveness.
These three key issues are where like to play a part in helping us nd the answers, please Pearson can make a unique contribution to peoples let us know and contact our head of corporate social and economic wellbeing on a global scale.
com RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE Beyond these three issues, we have a wider agenda of responsible business practice.
This covers areas such as nurturing and developing talent and diversity, environmental responsibility and supporting the work of the Pearson Foundation.
Robin Freestone Chief financial officer OUR VALUES and board member responsible for corporate Our approach to ethics and how we behave is responsibility grounded by our culture and values to be brave, imaginative anddecent.
