OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 103 1.
Accounting policies continued See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of a.
Basis of preparation continued the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements purchase, the difference is recognised directly in The preparation of financial statements in conformity the income statement.
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise On an  basis, the Group its judgement in the process of applying the Groups recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
assumptions and estimates are significant to the 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the consolidated financial statements, are discussed Group has the power to govern the financial and in the relevant accounting policies under the operating policies, generally accompanying a following headings: shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Intangible assets: Goodwill Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets which control is transferred to the Group and are Royalty advances fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions Employee benefits: Pension obligations with non-controlling interests are treated as Revenue recognition transactions with shareholders.
Consolidation deficit arising from disposals to a non-controlling 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of interest is recorded in equity.
For purchases from accounting is used to account for business combinations a non-controlling interest, the difference between of the Group with an acquisition date on or after consideration paid and the relevant share acquired 1 January 2010.
The consideration transferred for of the carrying value of the subsidiary is recorded the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the in equity.
assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are equity interest issued by the Group.
The consideration entities in which the Group holds an interest on a transferred includes the fair value of any asset or long-term basis and which are jointly controlled, with liability resulting from a contingent consideration one or more other venturers, under a contractual arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed arrangement.
Associates are entities over which the as incurred in the operating expenses line of the Group has significant influence but not the power to income statement.
control the financial and operating policies, generally Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed of the voting rights.
Investments in joint ventures and in a business combination are measured initially at associates are accounted for by the equity method their fair values at the acquisition date.
For material and are initially recognised at cost.
acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible assets is determined by an external, independent valuer.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
