36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our impact on society continued Reading in the classroom RAISING LITERACY LEVELS 1 We have a full range of reading programmes designed The economic and social cost of illiteracy is immense to help students learn to read.
Whether print or affecting as many as two billion people it may be as online, whole school or for students that need a little high as one trillion US dollars per year.
extra help, they all share a commitment to improving Illiteracy is a global challenge affecting both developed the reading standards of individual learners.
For example, in the UK, 22% CASE STUDY of the population are deemed as functionally illiterate, struggling with basic tasks, such as applying for a job iLit inspire Literacy by e-mail or reading their childs school report.
The iLit is the first reading programme built and delivered cost to the UK alone is estimated at 8 billion a year.
Launched in the United States, it targets readers aged 9 to 16 and supports, Our approach rewards and instructs based around the needs of Raising literacy levels is one of our three focus theindividual reader.
iLitis currently available for areasbecause: readers aged 14to 16.
For more information about iLit and the researchevidence that underpins it, visit: Good reading skills are the basic cornerstone essential for people to learn.
com All our businesses depend on the premise that people can read and enjoy doing so.
Our mix of businesses means that we can make a unique contribution to tackling illiteracy.
We play a part in three main ways: Our reading programmes both print and digital arefound in classrooms the world over.
For many, the first story that they read or that is read aloud to them will be a Penguin title.
We partner with others to run projects and campaigns to give books and to inspire reading.
Reading in the home Enthusiastic readers are inspired by great stories.
OurPenguin books for children Puffin, Frederick Warne and Ladybird books all provide plenty ofoptions.
In this digital age, how we read and write may change radically, but the ability to do so is more important than ever.
We believe in offering stories that are engaging and fun, regardless of format, for parents andtheir children to read at home or on the move.
