OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Our impact on society 37 CASE STUDY IMPROVING LEARNING OUTCOMES 2 Ladybird: Im ready for phonics app Our responsibility as a company is to play our fullpartin informing, shaping and making learning Giving a child a reading head-start effective for people of all ages, abilities and locations.
before they start school helps This focus on learning outcomes is a critical part of build confident readers.
such as Ladybirds Im Ready for Phonics!
gives parents new ways In the past, there were limitations on the extent to help prepare a child for synthetic towhich a textbook publisher selling products to phonics learning at school.
education institutions could measure their impact onlearning outcomes.
Our strategy is to become an education technology and solutions provider with global reach.
As the strategy gathers pace, so do the opportunities to help understand what works best to help students succeed.
We recognise that as we become more directly involved in the process of learning, we are more accountable for outcomes.
We have: Conducted nearly 50 reviews to assess and improve learning outcomes and trained over 100 people in theprocess.
Run a series of events reaching over 1,200 people andpresented on our approach at the company senior strategy conference and to the next generation of our leaders.
Partnering with others to encourage reading Tackling illiteracy demands that we work together in an We will: open and collaborative way.
We have focused on Conduct at least 100 additional reviews to assess building partnerships that extend access to books and thelearning outcomes from our programmes opportunities for shared reading.
We gave our eight millionth book under our Booktime Make it a precondition of any new investment of programme which sees every child starting school in US$3m or more that it is assessed for its impact England and Wales receive a book pack containing two onlearning.
free books to take home and keep.
Make a series of commitments around how we will We Give Books, the digital reading challenge run by deepen and accelerate our approach to assessing the Pearson Foundation, exceeded 1.5 million books learning outcomes.
donated to literacy charities around the world as chosen by online readers.
We gave our one millionth book to Book Aid, the charity that supports the development of libraries inschools and communities in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Wewere the largest book donor to Book Aid in 2012.
